ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, respected radio and television audiences! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:47]] There were 305 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. I'd like to ask you to join us for the birthday of Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. We wish her good health, success, well - being, and strength in the law - making work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Board has decided on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week from 12th to 15th. It's on your hands. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please. Thank you. Make the list public. From the Socialist Party, please, Volga Vasil Vasilovich. He's got a representative from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u2	Declaration by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on rising prices and tariffs for residential services. Ukraine's Socialist Party has consistently opposed an unjustified increase in prices and tariffs on residential services for the population. This topic affects 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens. Of course, there are serious conditions for raising prices and tariffs. The world's energy prices are rising and it's becoming increasingly difficult to keep the entire residential complex in proper condition. Technology catastrophes such as Alcevski are becoming more and more common. So we need to reconstruct all supply systems for gas, water, heat, and electricity. But not all of these problems can be translated into people’s minds. It can't be argued that our European neighbours have prices for residential services much higher than the Ukrainians, and the community takes it without protest. But wages and pensions are also higher than Ukrainians. You need to look for internal reserves to save and so much housing and utilities. One of them could be the use of gas for the housing and utilities of their own production. There is also a need for systematic reform of the housing and utility sector. Unfortunately, in 15 years of independence, no government has been able to overcome the systemic crisis in housing and utilities, and the authorities have only tried to put patches on holes at the expense of average citizens' tax payers. However, what is not available is no longer to be patched up. We need to look for ways to finance a comprehensive and profound reform of the entire housing and utility economy. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that the maximum use of natural gas for the purpose of producing an optimum price for gas is necessary: the maximum use of natural gas for the purpose of producing an optimal price for gas; the interim investigating commission for the verification of the situation with respect to the provision of natural gas for Ukrainian consumers; the calculation of natural gas and the possible violation of existing legislation on the energy market in Ukraine to focus its attention on the question of pricing for its own production and reporting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than October 1st 2006; the task of the Cabinet of Ministers at the expense of internal or external engagements to attract at least ten billion dollars for the immediate implementation of complex repairs in the sphere of the JCG; and the immediate establishment of a working group at the expense of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the MKD. An important condition is to raise the standard of living of the population to European standards. The increase is prices and tariffs without solving the problem only fill an army of low - income citizens and debtors, and no subsidies are being paid. Only socializing the economy will help to cut the vicious circle with rising prices and tariffs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u3	Thank you. He has a representative from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko. Please. This is Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Julia Timoshenko, parliamentary opposition. And I think this is the first speech from the rostrum that, on behalf of the parliamentary opposition today, wants to hear society. And first of all, I just want to remind you that all the deputies, all the leaders in the election, when they promise people something, look just fine. People believe them, they vote for them, they bring them to parliaments and to power committees, and then they watch what politicians do. And our task as opposition is to make sure that no action of power that today is characterized by a parliamentary, so-called "anti-crisis coalition" and a government that they have formed so that they cannot hide anything that society must know. And above all, everyone in Ukraine today is living with the problem of raising tariffs. I would like people in Ukraine today to know the nature of these tariff hikes. And who's to blame? I think the main thing that's going on in the state today is continuing the fraud known to the whole world by the shadow operation RosUkreenergo. Previously, Ukraine was known as Chernobyl, which exploded. Then Ukraine knew the whole world as an orange revolution, and now Ukraine knows the whole world because RosUkreenergo. And I want to tell people today that the gas prices, the gas tariffs that have been raised, are the reason that all the municipal tariffs have been increased without exception: hot water, electricity, heat, everything. And because gas prices have increased today to make money for RossUkrNergo and the authorities, today you have tariffs so that you know that the population of Ukraine is supplied with Ukrainian gas and its self - worth, as the opposition has found, today is only 114 bracelets with all the bracelets. They're already twice the size of these bracelets, and the population's decided to sell 414 bracelets of gas, almost three times the cost of this product. This money is being transferred to RosUkrenergo, and this is covered by today’s authorities. We insisted that a decree be made today to set up a special commission of inquiry to investigate these tariffs. Alexander Moroz did not put this decision in the order of the day. We insist that the decision be made and that the opposition influence the correct setting of gas prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u5	In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I have put this issue on the work plan for tomorrow after the conclusions of the profile committee. That's what Julia Volodymyrna knows, and maybe she doesn't know, I remind her. The next word from the faction "Our Ukraine" has a representative. Please. Roman Petrovich the Immortal is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Let me begin by welcoming the members of the People's Movement and all those who started working in this organization, because the days are 17 years old from the beginning of the People's Movement and those who were once thought to be perverts who were not believed to be Ukraine, today is the seventeenth year as we have been doing all of the successive programs of the People's Movement of Ukraine, with which I welcome the motorists and all those who shared and shared their views. By the way, these views today are part of almost all the parties and blocks that are represented in today’s Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the first session of the Supreme Council of this call has been difficult for both parliament and parliamentarians and for the whole country, because we have all passed an examination of the opportunity and ability to implement the new Constitution of Ukraine. And you could say today that we've done this exam, we've passed this exam, well, maybe satisfactorily, maybe even unsatisfactoryly. And these principles that the new Constitution has given us are coalitionism, an alpha and an omega of a civilized democratic and political system. Unfortunately, these principles during their implementation were somewhat distorted and partly scattered beyond the coalition logic that was knocking in the windows of this house, where we tried to build it, both in the Supreme Council and in the Cabinet of Ministers. And as evidence of that, the agenda that we are going to be looking at today is a session where more than 90 percent of the documents are not government documents, but the documents of the national MPs. And more than half of them are political power projects that position themselves as opposition. All of a sudden, it turns out that the constitutional changes that we've made, which we've stressed without the legislative complex that we have to adopt in the shortest terms, can lead to the discrediting of new democratic mechanisms for the exercise of power. This means that such a dog, an unfinished reform, has only become a mine of slow action that, without a complex of legislation, can strike a very big blow to the formation of a system of power in Ukraine. And it was only through the initiative of the President of Ukraine to sign, hold a round table and sign the university that managed to stabilize this situation. That is why we insist that the position of the university, the position of the memorandum signed by the three political forces: the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party and our Ukraine, be implemented, because it is based on these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u7	Thank you, Roman Petrovich. A representative of the Communists has the floor. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it was very strange for me to hear a statement by Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, who was pleased to see that today, at last, she, including her knowledge of the gas situation and where the gas is going, at what cost. I want to say that you and I have set up a special commission in this room to investigate this case. The commission was composed of representatives, Sivuliski, from its faction, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. But I would like to say that the question of gas price was raised by Prime Minister Yanukovic and already in the new Government, on behalf of the new Government, the work was carried out and our commission was reported. The Commission is considering the issue from 2005 to 2006, i.e. the period when Julia Vladimirovna was Prime Minister. I mean, I think Julia Vladimirovna is on the subject, because what EESA was doing in her time today is doing RosUkrenergo. So the mechanisms are the same and the problems are the same. In 94-95, I was a member of the Harkov Regional Council, and in Harkov, we raised the question of what our gas was needed, including the gas Sebelinka was getting, and at that time we knew that its cost of $8,000 was to be directed to housing and the population of Ukraine. At the time, the Ministry resisted, mixed those prices, and the mediators made good money. Communists support the idea that we need to introduce a zero VAT rate on tariffs relating to housing and utilities, and we will do so. We demand that part of the arrival of the housing and utilities that will be sent for modernization, major repairs, not be taxed. Where can I get the money? It is necessary to return the money that has been written off by EESU and that money must be demanded to return to the budget and the amounts that can cover what we may now lose from the introduction of a zero VAT rate. In general, we believe that major repairs in housing and utilities are such huge amounts, such huge amounts, such amounts of work that cannot be solved only by raising tariffs. Therefore, it is not possible to include these funds in the new tariffs, which should go to major repairs. The State must finance direct major housing and utility repairs and, you know, the Communists have raised this issue, and we will continue to demand that this issue be resolved. I believe that we need the benefits that have been raised here, of course, but we need to expand the area that needs to be considered. The cost of maintaining the President's office, the cost of maintaining officials, law enforcement agencies, I mean not the militias, of course, but those who we have for life have certain benefits and are protected. We really need to see how we have the machine and what resources we can save, and we need to save and send it to social programs. It's a Communist position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u9	Thank you. The word has a representative from the block. I give the floor to a representative of the faction of the Party of Regions, please. Deputy Hara speaking. Vassil Georgiyovich Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine mainly supports the agenda proposed by the Conciliation Council, we have some doubts about individual bills that are “scented” by the very excessive opening of pear-actions, and we support it in large part. The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine supports today's first official statement by the parliamentary opposition and very much hopes that the parliamentary opposition will be exactly what the Prime Minister would like to see, speaking from this rostrum at the opening of the session, which said that it was very desirable for the opposition to be indeed a European opposition. Since the objectives and objectives of the authorities and the opposition are identical, there are only different methods and approaches, mechanisms for carrying out the work that the opposition and the power are capable of. Personally, as a representative of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, I would very much not like us to use the necessary mechanisms in our work as well as the opposition. Let's put it this way, issues of increased utility payments and prices for gas, electricity and other things. You and I know very well that the Cabinet of Ministers is working on this subject, that we have established with you the Special Commission of the Supreme Council, headed by the Ripper who deals with these issues. We remember with you that as early as 20 October 2005, Parliament had decided to ban the increase in gas prices. In January, we confirmed this decision with you, but the past Government ignored it and failed to comply. And the legacy that has come to the Government of Yanukovic, we are forced to decide today. Our committee, including I am the author of the bill, which supported the main leading industrial policy committees to return to those regulations that were applicable to utilities and gas prices, electricity and so on. Today, the population of the country is indeed unable to pay the price that the State, but in fact the previous Government, demands from the population. And we need to agree on the opportunities of the population, the needs, the utilities, and the possibilities of the budget, all of this needs to be addressed through the bills, through the legislation that we have enacted with you. I would like all of us to wish to implement the projects and programmes that we have planned, in particular the agenda that we are adopting with you today. And to do everything in order to resolve, as quickly as possible, the enormously complex issues that exist in our State. Above all, budgeting, and we know budgetary issues. And the adoption of a whole package of bills that prepares the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with the economic, political and social crisis in which our State is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u11	Thank you. The word for replication has been given by Julius Timoshenko for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I would ask you not to manipulate the Rules. And a replica is given to give immediate answers to certain concerns that benefit any politician. So I would ask you not to do such unpleasant things. The other one. I want to remind everyone that when Victor Janukovic went to the polls he said he would cancel the baseless, completely abnormally high gas prices that the government of Yehanurov had made. But today everyone has adapted to make money in RosUkrNergo, and everyone has forgotten their promises to people about the normalization and return of prices on Ukrainian natural gas, the return and normalization of tariffs. [[Not Russian, I emphasize, the population goes to Ukrainian gas.]] And that's why we're talking about the country's tariffs rising, not because they're objectively, but because there's big corruption going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Julia Volodymyr. I could use the right to a replica, because I'm also a deputy. But I'm not going to do that, I'm just reminding you of the rules. And she's saying that the word for replication is given after the question is considered. And now the question was announced from factions with applications and proposals. After the performances have taken place, you have the right to a replica and so will always be. Thank you. Dear fellow MPs. You have a list of issues for discussion. I, with your permission, proceed to their consideration. The issue of the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call is being considered. I also want to say that as the subject of the legislative initiative, I have made a two - point decision. The first point is that we approve the agenda. In the second paragraph, we provide that bills prepared for consideration for the purpose of ensuring Ukraine's entry into the WTO, as well as for the implementation of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the need for legislative provisions of the relevant Constitution of Ukraine, do not require additional voting for their inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day second session. The point is, obviously, these projects, and this task is prepared, will be worked out and included in the order of the day. So who would like to comment on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I suggest we write down who has such a desire. Please. Coming through, please. Thank you, publish the list. Cuzko Vasil Petrovich, behind him Gournik. We're gonna take 15 minutes to talk, right? Please, Vasil Petrovich. From where? Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, our deputies and members of the faction, and I myself have submitted drafts, and they are registered yesterday, and this morning. They don't get in the way of the day today. What's going to happen to them, these bills, how are they going to get in order?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u15	Well, then let's do it. It's not a discussion, it's a question-answer. I answer that question. These projects will be registered and, according to the second paragraph of the draft regulation, which I have named, will be included in the order of the day. If there are other questions? None. Then, please, do you have it? Taran, please. Taran. [[Terra]] Then we take five minutes to ask questions, and then there will be a discussion. The first one will be the word Gournik. Taran. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, throughout the entire last session and before that, all the bills, I emphasize, all the bills that applied to, say, the amendments to the Law on Political Repression, the UPA soldiers, my bill on juvenile prisoners, my bill on juvenile prisoners -- all of this has been tormented by the faction of communists and ruled out. Today we see the same thing. Bill 2097 on juvenile prisoners of political concentration camps Russia has long adopted such a law. Belarus passed such a law. All the nations in the former Soviet Union have accepted it. I don't understand why my registered bill isn't included here again. So the Communists continue to do what they did today within the new coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u17	It takes three minutes to perform. It's what I'd like to ask, I think they're less time-consuming. Oh, that's the question. I'm sorry. We'll find out. Five minutes to question-answer, I said. I'll find out what this is all about. Then I'll give you an answer. If this is wrong, if there is no list, it will be added. Who else has the question? None. Then please, Gunner. Strutter's question. Oh, please. And Onechuk. Please. St. St. John's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u18	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, here in the second chapter of the plan, where there are bills to be drafted and proposed for consideration at the session, for unknown reasons, my Bill No. 2020, regarding the right to set up educational institutions, is missing. Although it was filed on August 30th, and several more bills have already been submitted after it, they are, and there is nothing to my bill. I'm asking the Science and Organization Department to add, because there's no clear reason why it didn't come up with this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u19	I answer your question. I only wrote this project today because it's so presented at such a time. It was only this morning that I wrote it down for committee consideration. That's why your claims are useless. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u20	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, draft decree on the order of the day of the second session of the Fifth Council, contains Appendix 2 on the list of bills that are not supported by individual MPs. In particular, one such bill is 1251 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. I think that the faction or MPs who made the proposal not to support this bill really didn't get to know its contents. This bill only deals with one question: bringing the limitation periods to the State for damages and so forth, to civil law requirements. We adopted a new Civil Code, where the statutes of limitations were 10 years old. And this law was passed when this term was three years old and it was also in the Civil Code. That's why there's no one here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u21	Mikolo Vasilovich, in the end, I'm answering your question, I'm going to put your proposal to the vote, I think it's taken into account in the session hall. No more questions? A representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction, Eugene Górnik, will take part in the discussion, please, for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u22	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. In principle, we need to sort our order of work, but there are some observations about its formation. First of all, we have a proportional election system and, obviously, if a faction has proposed bills, there is nowhere to be seen the veto power of other political factions. So I think this list of bills that are proposed by some factions is denied by others, this argument is wrong, and we should include all the bills that are passed in an orderly manner by any faction. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that we have, under the Rules, drafts that have been first read in the last session should come up with a second reading for our consideration of this convening. Unfortunately, there is also one of my bills that deals with the order of extra-curricular checks by the tax authorities in some way in this proposed project. This may be clear in the working order, but I'd like to draw your attention to this problem. Finally. Maybe we should move away from the practice that we have the right to not miss someone's bill. If the bills are passed by the factions, the national MPs should be determined by voting. The practice of not being allowed to consider some of the laws is absolutely wrong. So these exceptions in this decision need to be removed. And also allow the drafting of new drafts to be put in order for them to be placed in the order of the day session. In particular, this applies to the Bill of July Volodymyrna Timoshenko on the voting order. Unfortunately, during the last session, there was a problem when, while I was away in the hall, I learned that I had voted in favour of the government of Viktor Yanukovich. Therefore, the identification of voting by the corresponding fingerprints is necessary. With regard to this vote. I made a proper application on the second day. Unfortunately, Alexander Alexanderovich obviously did not receive it, and I report that he never voted for Viktor Yanukovic, nor for any government, although it includes some of my friends and acquaintances, and I do not support appropriate political proposals. The order of the day is to be accepted with observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u23	Thank you. I read your application and wrote it to the Secretariat to account for your position. So be calm, no one considers you to be a proponent of the government of Viktor Yanukovic. And check in with me when you've filed this bill you're talking about. Let's find out. If there was a violation by the secretariat, people would be punished. But I don't see any chance of anyone blocking the registration of such laws. Pomorenko, please, Grigory Grigorovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction will maintain the order of the day of our session with the exception of the first three bills: 1251, 1302, which refers specifically to UN-UPA soldiers, that is, fascist textbooks recognized in the Nuremberg process. By the way, dear colleagues, this year we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Nuremberg process, and I think that Ukraine has no right and the Supreme Council has no right to consider such bills. And 1109 what has to do with covering or concealing the facts of the crime and in the activities of NAK “Naftogazu Ukraine”. But I'd like to figure out some general things. First, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began in conditions where, as a result of the unsatisfying activities of the previous governments and the wrong policies of the orange presidential team, the socio-economic situation in the country has gained signs of a systemic crisis and has deteriorated seriously. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government face a number of urgent challenges: stopping the rise in prices and tariffs, overcoming social strife, ethnic, interfaith, and linguistic opposition. The key is to implement a strong social policy. We should, in our view, protect our people’s wallets from being devastated, primarily by underprotected populations — veterans, disabled persons, pensioners, many - child families, and mothers who raise their own children. We insist on the inclusion in the State Budget of separate lines for the payment of wages and the return to the population of lost savings. We are faced with a very serious problem of imposing a moratorium on price increases and tariffs until the corresponding increases in salaries and pensions and effective monetary compensation mechanisms are achieved, and citizens' incomes are indexed. We need to consider urgently the need to create a single economic space between Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Kazakhstan, which is fully in line with the national interests of Ukraine and is a cultural, political and economic union for us. We are also confident that the creation of the EPP should be an important component of the anti-crisis government programme, by the way, and the creation of a gas consortium with the participation of Ukraine, Russia and other interested countries in Europe and, as we can see, Asia today. With regard to the issue of joining the WTO, as we have already discussed, we insist that the first question of protecting the national economy be addressed, and then we have considered problems that have to do with joining the WTO. We also think that the prerequisite for entering the WTO should be to create a single economic space. So very serious issues and problems are facing the Supreme Council and the faction of Communists are ready for constructive cooperation. We have already introduced more than 30 bills to the Supreme Council, and we hope that they will be considered during the second session. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u26	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, since we are a parliamentary-presidential Republic under the changes made to the Constitution, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are very few, and virtually no, monitoring functions of Parliament and monitoring the activities of the branches of power and law enforcement. I would like to say, Alexander Alexandrovich, that although we will adopt today's agenda for the session, I am working on a draft regulation that, unfortunately, I have not been able to finish because I received a very late response from the State Tax Administration, although within the time limits prescribed by law, on the activities of the Single Energy Systems. Noting our voters, I would like to report that the Single Energy Systems during the reign of Yulia Vladimirovna, Prime Minister, were written off for a very short period of time, seven and a half billion, I repeat, seven and a half billion bracelets. By cancelling such debt, benefits can be talked about, anything that can be said to divert people from their own true goals, useful. I am therefore working today to make a draft decision and at this session to set up a special investigative commission on how, once Prime Minister Yulia Vladimirovn became Prime Minister, all of this was immediately, this mechanism was launched, beginning with the Dnipropetrov District Court of 96, it seems that the 97s have all changed before 2005. It is the case that the Special Commission of Inquiry should consider this issue and report to Parliament and, in the end, put an end to the fact that the opposition today is in white clothes and thinks that this will be the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Taran has the word. Oh, excuse me, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, please. You can leave the place, yes, please, Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. Is he passing on to the Turk? Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin my speech, certainly, with the problems that we need to consider when making decisions. And first, I wanted to talk to Alexander Alexandrovich. The order of the day session is a very responsible thing, because it is it that shapes politics in the state, well, at least, for six months and for a serious perspective. And, Alexander Aleksandrovich, I want to ask you why at 9:00 a.m. the MPs couldn't get a list of laws that we're about to approve. 15 minutes before the session, this material was distributed. And it is certainly very difficult to make decisions today without having the opportunity to get to know in detail the list of laws that we should approve with you. So, Alexander Alexanderovich, I would very much ask that before the vote took place, you make it clear to the protocol that all the legislative acts proposed by the factions and discussed on the Conciliation Council are included in this list. It's for the protocol so you can make a decision. And the request to you: to organize the work of the Apparatus so that such materials will be distributed at the proper time to the deputies, in accordance with the Rules, is the first. The other one. I'd like to, my fellow Members, and I'd like to ask the MPs and journalists to take a look at the list of these laws that are going into the order of the day of this session. Notice that our government, which talks a lot about real change, has made very good rolls during the electoral campaign, has put in order a little more than twenty laws a day, most of which were done by the previous government. So when you look at these laws, you see that there are no strategic issues that you don't want to solve, no serious issues that touch our citizens, make their lives easier, which is promised in your videos, Communists, regionals, you don't ask any questions. Just making money at the expense of our citizens. And I'm very interested in hearing a speech from the Communists who forgot that they were members of the government, that they were responsible for the injustice that is being done in the country today. They are responsible, together with the regionals, with the socialists and part of “Our Ukraine” for robbing the population today, for raising tariffs, because today the quarter payment in many cities is greater than the subsistence minimum. You are responsible for this and your lies, your attempt to black out Timoshenko, her dedicated work in government work will not help you cover up your lies, your deceit, and your betrayal to the Ukrainian people. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to refer to your colleagues, your attention to the legislative acts proposed by the opposition. Here's a list of issues, starting with the organization of the opposition to the European path when we go this way. And the second question, the main issues that the opposition is focusing on, is, of course, the protection of the population from this habitation that begins in the country. I very much ask, Alexander Alexanderovich, not only to include them in the agenda, but to put these issues first for consideration in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u29	To your comments, I say that the materials are given at the proper time. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, they were all members of the Conciliation Council. Today you could take them at the right time, just your faction was five minutes late in the session room and obviously couldn't use this time to get acquainted with the document. All the suggestions discussed at the Conciliation Council will be included in the order of the day, and you know that too. Take a close look at the materials offered. That's Taran's word for the record, please. Please turn on the microphone. Taran. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at a previous session, I personally reported twice from the parliamentary rostrum on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on Ukrainians deported from the original Ukrainian lands of Holmščina, Podvlja and twice, thanks to the Communist faction, the issue was not voted on. Today, unfortunately, we see the same system again. I was just trying to find out. I found out what happened, but the bill on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression, the amendments made to the children born in captivity, was again not included in the agenda number 2079. I was just in the head of the secretariat. They say it's all going to be fixed, it's going to be okay. I want to believe that all of this is going to be okay. But it's kind of a tradition, you know. That even when Russia, even Belarus, had long passed bills, passed laws on children born in captivity, the Ukrainian Parliament did not accept them. And it's a paradoxical situation. In the same Communist camps there were Belarusians, Ukrainians, and Russians. And the Belarusians, the Russians have the law -- we don't have it in the Ukrainian Parliament, even in the agenda. Once again, I strongly insist, Law 2079, registered by me in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should be included in the agenda. And the last. Here some representatives of the great coalition, such a large, broad coalition from the Carpathians to the Far East, shed tears about fighting for prices, for tariffs, and so forth. People good, you're in power today, and I want to remind you once again that the cost of Ukrainian gas in Ukraine is 114.7 dollars. The holiday price for humans is 444 bracelets. On account of these, 300 bracelets, these are the money that goes to Rosukreenergo. I want to say that Moscow gives directly 2 billion cubic gas at a low price, 2 billion cubic gas, and the Ukrainians have to subsidize it from their own pockets. And that's why power is what it is today, but I want to stress once again that we're going to be very clear on all this banditry, all this garbage and we're going to be bringing it to people. That's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u31	Okay. We concluded the discussion to find out the meaning of the situation, since I am introducing this draft decision, I would like to say a few things. Those bills that are supported by the Conciliation Council, the heads of the committees, are listed in chapters one and two. Some are fully prepared, others are prepared for work, and they are entrusted with preparing for the session. The Conciliation Council has supported such a proposal, and we need to vote first on this part of the ruling. Next you can see a list of the drafts that are in the process but are not proposed by the committees for inclusion in the agenda. Part of these questions, which are foretold here, simply do not need to be considered now, for they are identified, solved, there, for example, as to the resignation of one of the officials, has already been suspended and so on. That is, there is no need to include them in the order of the day. There are a few bills that, in my view, have gone wrong in this chapter. The committee does not support, for example, the draft law amending some of the legislation on the establishment of religious institutions in educational institutions, but it could be evaluated here, supported or not supported, but it is already a matter of respect for the legislative initiative, the subject of the legislative initiative. Obviously, the same is true of the Mikola Onichuk project, which is absolutely necessary for consideration, even for legal technology, and not so much for content. It's not a political question, it's purely legal. As for other issues, we will be determined by the way in which the first and second appendix is considered. Moreover, no one objects to the adoption of the bills that will be proposed by the committees within the week. Because before yesterday there was a decree, a bill was passed, and they're going to be taken into consideration. If they're introduced at this time, they'll be considered. I repeat this, because in the second paragraph of the draft decree, which we should vote on, it is envisaged that the whole bloc of other bills that will be related to the World Trade Organization, the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers programme, the legal enforcement of the Constitution, these issues will be included automatically as they come and carry out their respective tasks. So I'd like to vote first on the draft decision and then on the parts that I just said. Please proceed with the procedure. Sign the procedure, Matthew. Five minutes for the procedure, please. Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u32	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Alexander Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! With regard to the proposed draft decree on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council. As Peter Mikolaiovich pointed out in his statement, the faction will maintain the overall order of the day. But I would like, Alexander Alexanderovich, to draw attention to the second point of the decision that is proposed. That is to say, as far as it is concerned to establish that draft legislation that is being prepared for the purpose of ensuring Ukraine's entry into the WTO, as well as for the implementation of the government's programme, and which is justified by the need for legislative provisions of the Constitution, does not require further voting. This is, as you know, a gross violation of the regulations in force in the Supreme Council. Therefore, if there is such a need, appropriate changes to the Rules will have to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u33	Thank you. I want to tell you that this question is not written by accident. The government, formed two months later than it should have been, simply failed to prepare the materials related to the legislative provision of the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular with regard to the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers’s Programme of Action. It's a question of the bill of entry into the U.S.A. We were looking at the last session, at the Parliament meetings of the last assembly. And in connection with the formation of a new Cabinet of Ministers, they have been called off. It is clear that they will be reintroduced and voted separately. And you could write that they don't need an extra vote, because that's the will at the end of the Supreme Council. It forms the order of the day. Finally, after every bill that comes to this effect, we can vote separately each day. And this can also be considered. The same thing about the legal escort, that is, the adoption of the organic laws that emerge from the Constitution -- the Cabinet of Ministers, the referendum, the President and so on, and so on. Therefore, the session can be defined as follows: It may be possible to make a different decision. So far, I'm putting this project on the ground. Voting on the basis, please identify yourself. [[10:55:20]] For 321 Supports the adoption of this project as a basis. We now foresee, and the Rules provide for this practice of the appendix to be considered separately first and second and then to be voted on as a whole. The first appendix to Bills 0952, 1180, 1168, 1185 and 1298 were exhausted and no need to vote. 2220 and 1120 can be considered for inclusion in the order of the day. There, five minutes and all of them from one faction would support this offer. No. 2020 and No. 1120. You have this document on your hands, open it and read it. I'm voting on the proposal to include these projects in the main text. I repeat, one more time. I ask you again, I'm going to ask this question separately. Project No. 2020 in the first plugin, here they are, and 1120 I propose to vote for inclusion in the order of the day. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:57:06]] For 233 Question included. Now in Appendix Two. Draft Act amending the Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression on the Periods of Degree. The Onechuk project and we discussed it separately. I'm asking him to put it in order of day. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[10:57:39]] For 155 This proposal is not supported. Let's make a decision to the committee on this and we'll vote it off later. Draft Act on the status of fighters with the totalitarian regime for Ukraine's independence. Project Lukyanka No. 1305. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:58:10]] For a hundred and And after the committee's proposals, we'll go back to that question. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Write-off of Unpaid Volumes of Natural Gas on Order and Conditions of Write-off, the Ivchenka Project. I'll put it to a vote. [[10:58:40]] For – 19 Do you insist on publicizing? Factions, please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 16, SPI and Communists – 0. The question Victor Terrence asked is 2079, about the children prisoners. I confirm that I've written this question down today to the committee to consider it, and he is, that's the project. I'm voting on the inclusion of this project, 2079, in the agenda. Please. [[10:59:30.]] For 185 There will also be further consideration. Then we can vote. I'm putting the project together for approval, the draft Order of the Day Order of the Second Session. I beg you, let's vote as we agreed. [[11:00:02]] For – 297 Decision taken. Is Javorowski asking for a word? Please. But he mentioned it, he was mentioned. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u34	Turn on the microphone. Thank you. Alexander Alexanderovich, I want to draw your attention as the Head of the Supreme Council. We have a list of drafts that are working. That's what it's called. Not proposed by the committees to include the agenda in the project. I mean, you didn't even name the bill. It is called: “The granting of official status in Ukraine”, and was carried out, extended. A lot of MPs might not have figured it out. Alexander Aleksandrovich, recently signed Universal, has not yet dried the ink. "Our Ukraine," for what? The bill was not considered on the committee. The bill is very important and explosive. And you know it. Why do we literally put it into this order of things today? Let me give you a chance, we'll look at this bill, then we'll put it in. You're the one who's going to detonate the situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u35	Right. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I explain. I proposed what the MPs insisted on, put it to a vote. Your will could not have been voted on. When we consider this question, if it is, let's say there, whether we look at it soon or later, then we'll go back to that question and figure it out. I think it's going to be defined. Once again, please. Well, why do you pretend to be with me when 300 people voted almost. Well, please. Question is, please, no one's bothering you. So don't insist. About the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the Committee on Rules and Ethical Affairs, has the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u36	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at the meeting on 11 September the statements made by the National Deputies, who were assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to other positions in the authorities of the State on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy. On the basis of article 81, part 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the committee decided to support the statements and to make appropriate draft decrees on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies, namely: Azarov Mikli Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u37	You have a draft decision on your hands for this matter. I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Azarov Mikli Janović. Please identify yourself. [[11:03:29]] For 385 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u38	Jarty Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u39	Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal to suspend the authority of the national deputy Jarty for the term. Please. [[11:03:58]] For 394
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u40	Clever Andrija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u41	Who is in favour of the decree to terminate the mandate of the national deputy of Clovis for the term of office, please identify yourself. [[11:04:24]] For 385. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u42	Kozaka Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u43	Who's for the adoption of the decree on the permanent termination of the authority of the national MP, Kozak, please. [[11:04:50]] For 403. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u44	Nikolainka Stanislava Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u45	I'm betting on the vote on this motion for a ruling. [[11:05:11]] For 396
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u46	Pauline Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u47	Pauline Yuri Alexiovich. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the Pavlovka People's Deputy. [[11:05:36]] For 402. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u48	Ribaka Volodymira Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u49	I put to the vote a draft decree concerning the national MP, Ribak Volodymyr Vasilovich. [[11:05:59]] For 406. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u50	Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u51	I'm putting a motion for a vote with respect to the national MP Rudzkowski. [[11:06:21]] For 413
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u52	Valentina Petrovna's seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u53	I'm putting a draft decision on Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk to the vote. [[11:06:45]] For 397. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u54	Tarasjuka Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u55	Regarding Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, the draft decree is put to the vote. [[11:07:08]] For 391. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u56	Toluba Sergio Borisova.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u57	Regarding Toluba Sergio Borisovich, the draft ruling is based on the vote. [[11:07:30.]] For 394. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u58	Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u59	With regard to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, the draft decree is put to the vote. [[11:07:52]] For 395. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u60	The cook, Roman Mihajlovich, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, did not submit an application for authorisation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, the committee decided to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council for instructions to block the operation of the ID card and to stop the payment of salaries in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Derogation of Persons who Match the Deputies’ Mandate with Other Activities, and to appeal to the court for the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u61	I've given the commission on this subject to prepare the relevant documents, and today they will be signed. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u62	Thank you for your attention. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u63	Questions, please. It's a little off course. Please, if you have any questions, five minutes, sign them up. Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u64	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Well, I don't think that on MP Zvarich in principle, Parliament should be offended because it's a person specific. "Our Ukraine," remember, he said on TV that only a madman could negotiate with a Party of Regions, then he led them. Alone. Then he said that he would never work in a government where socialists would be, he was very angry with Frost, betrayal, and so forth. Then he ran to work there first. I thought, you know, there are decent people among people like Poultry, but I was wrong. And when he lost his degree somewhere over the ocean, on his way back from the United States to Ukraine, on the road, yes, that he lost both honor and the dignity of the MP, that is, the person who represents the same as himself. Of course, no doubt we must block his card, we must vote in favour of depriving him of his parliamentary powers. I would ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put this issue in the order of the day, whether he submits the application or not, because tomorrow he will go mad again. You know, everything happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u65	I'd like, my fellow Members, not to discuss the personalities of those MPs who are not at the meeting. We are not currently discussing the personal matter of a particular MP, but we are deciding whether or not to remove the mandate. You have signed up to ask the reporter a question, so please follow the Rules in this regard. Ask questions if they are. If not, there is no need for discussion. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u66	Vladimir Kurenyeh, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the chairman of the Standing Committee a question, and the leadership of the Supreme Council is as follows. Well, first of all, we haven't all heard names. So we also have the Antimonopoly Committee, which is headed by the representative of your faction, Kostusev, we have the Human Rights Commissioner, who is also in charge of your faction's representation. And I don't think you can do it selectively. Or you have to make a decision to remove them from these positions, and it's your government that can do that, or it can also solve the issues, both by the cook and by them, so that we don't have an exception, that this is one position for the cook, for the others is another. Well, that's the last of it. I was going to say, unfortunately, dear government officials, you're still not lucky, you've given your authority too late. It's still an act to which you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u69	Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u70	I would like to say that, as a member of the Rules of Procedure, it is very unfortunate that you are not attending the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, you would know the answers to the questions you are asking. With regard to Kostusev, this issue is on the agenda today and will be considered in the session room, and you can take a decision on it. With regard to Karpacheva Nina Ivanovna, she also made a statement under article 78 of the Ukrainian Constitution. This statement is before the Human Rights Committee, national minorities and inter-national relations. The management procedure for this level is defined by a separate paragraph of law in the Supreme Council. There's a secret ballot. And if the session is to be held, a decision will be taken by the relevant committee, which means that the decision you wish to take will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u71	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich. Sand, faction of the “Regions” party. I want to ask you this question: Was Mr. Welder at the committee meeting when his case was considered? And if he was then, what was his argument, not just as a deputy, but as a minister of justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u73	Mr. Zvarić was not present at the committee meeting, but I spoke to him on the telephone, his position was that once a broad coalition treaty was signed, he would immediately write a statement on the withdrawal of the parliamentary powers. In fact, I believe that everyone can have a position, he has expressed it. Thank you, but the committee has made the decision that it is obliged to make on the legislative basis that is in our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u74	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Take your seats, please. And I asked a question, and I'm going to give him a brief answer: There will be no accomplices in the session room. What is provided for by legislation, the Constitution, the right to submit, to appeal to a court, to decide whether, in the way that we have just decided today, the matter will be resolved that way. Hence, there is the question of Kostusev and Karpachov, Zvarič and Yvchenka. These questions will be considered and considered in accordance with the legal order. Please, we have considered this question. Draft decree on the release from office of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine by John Cich. He'll report. [[B in m in s a l in]] . What are the motives, please? What are the motives? What's not clear?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u75	Have you checked in with the procedure? Well, please, come on. I'm asking, let's put it this way: I've brought the information about, I've called the names, because there's this information, because the committee has made a proposal about a candidate for something like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] . I know that. Please. Are you insisting on your word? On the line? Because I called your name? Please give the word to Yvchenko for replication. Please don't scream from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u76	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Alexander Aleksandrovitch called my last name on a list of like or not accomplices. I'm not a co-conspirator, I'm a national deputy of Ukraine. Before we can include questions in the list of co-sponsors and bring them to the Supreme Council session, we need a document, a legal act -- whether it's a Cabinet Order or an order from the Ministry or my application to be admitted to a position or something. No legal instrument or act exists in nature. If you're based on publications in mass media, tomorrow they'll print that you're the President of Ukraine. So, I'm supposed to file for depriving you of the National Deputy's Sessional Hall? There is no legal document. Show him if he's in the session room. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u77	I didn't think you'd be offended by that name. And you're obviously offering me another job. I'm not pretending to be her, believe me. As for the legal documents, I wrote down the committee yesterday on the basis of an official statement to look into the matter. So I remembered him. If you feel that it is unfounded, this question arises, you will find out on the committee. I'll apologize then. I understand. I will then apologize to you for offending you in the plenary. Now regarding the comments made on the proposals made by Alexander Sergiyovich regarding Zvarych. To go to court, we need a Supreme Council ruling, a Supreme Council order. That is what the Rules say. That is what the Rules say. Please see what rule of the Rules I have forgotten. Number. Article 218, paragraph 3, of the Rules. “According to the decision of the Supreme Council, adopted by an open-ended vote by a majority of the votes of the national deputies from its constitutional composition, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to appeal to the court to decide on the question of the early termination of the mandate of such a national deputy. The decision of the Supreme Council shall be drawn up by a decree.” So I can put it to a vote, there'll be a decision, and I'll sign it. I put to the vote the draft decision made by Alexander Sergiyovich, head of the Regulatory Committee. Take it easy. I read what you just heard. This is the norm of the Rules. I'll bet you a vote. Please. Here comes the vote. [[11:19:15]] For 316 Decision taken. I'll read it again for those who haven't heard. “By decision of the Supreme Council.” Wait, listen. “According to the decision of the Supreme Council, adopted by an open-ended vote by a majority of the national deputies from its constitutional composition, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to appeal to the court to decide on the question of the early termination of the mandate of such a national deputy. The decision of the Supreme Council shall be drawn up by a decree.” We made a decision, now it's made by a decree. Please. A draft decree on the dismissal of the Head of the State Television Committee and the radio talk of Ukraine by John Sergiyovich Cizha is under consideration. Reports the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u78	Good health. I was delegated by the committee to present a draft decree, which was unanimously supported by all members of the committee of all five parliamentary factions. We offer to accept John the Great. Before that, we had a rather long history related to the letters of the head of the Statetelleradio. On June 26, he applied for his resignation. Later in his two letters, he tried to withdraw, but after the last meeting of the committee, Ivan Sergiyovich had already submitted the fourth letter, in which he finally confirmed that he wanted to leave his post at his own request. I thank you for realizing that there is a new political reality and for keeping to the arrangements that were there. This deprives us of the need today to discuss the business and personal qualities of the Head of the Derteradio, so I propose to grant the resignation application and thus to start a new phase in the life of the Stateleradio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u79	Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes to ask. Stásov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Lucienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u82	I'd like to ask the question of Chihua, if he could explain to us here the motives from which he wants to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u83	Well, he wrote in his statement. I don't think it's right if it's all written to answer questions right now. The reporter did these things. I don't think that's exactly what the Rules are. Lejko Grigorovich, let's skip that question. Koval, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Alexander! National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Hennady Josephovich the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u85	Thank you, Vjačeslav Stanislavovich, for your word. I have more questions than I should have for Ivan Sergiyovich to answer. But four statements, as I understand it. What is the main reason? He can't handle the job? Because that's how the committee unanimously decided to accept his application. You know what often happens when people say, “You know what, you don’t content yourself, there, by some subjective estimate.” What really is the reason? Well, it seems that the committee was working and that it had already stood up for many governments. Is there any sublime argument to make this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u86	At present, we are guided by the last of the four letters of John Sergiyovich. This is a letter from September 6, 2006, in which he literally confirms his desire to follow his own desires. “Please consider my previous letters from July 20th and July 27th. I confirm the validity of the application sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 26 June.” We decided to move away from discussing the business, political, moral qualities of the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. They were just following his last statement, and he wants out of office at his own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u87	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u88	Dear Sir, the Committee on Freedom of Speech. I am also a proponent of not discussing the activities of Ivan Sergiyovich now, but we have asked the question of his resignation once in the past, but the Supreme Council has not voted. Now we just followed how painful it was, how painful it was to be born. There were letters, then letters, then letters, and then letters. That's why I'd like to thank Ivana Sergiyovich, after all, for his courage, and what do you think you should do on behalf of your committee to reward him for doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u89	I think freedom is of great value, and I wish John Sergiyovich well managed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u90	I'll give Ivan Sergiyovich a minute at the end. In the meantime, Jacob’s question is asked. There's no Jacob, that's what I understand, Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u91	I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Andrey Chevchenko. For the future, you have considered who will be in charge of this committee, and what will be the future? So there are some suggestions for how the strategy, the development policy of this committee and so on will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u92	Not yet considered, because there is no subject to be considered. And if you're interested in further procedure, it's like, under article 85 of the Constitution, we have to wait for the Prime Minister's submission to the new head of the Derteleradio. Then we're going to look at this filing committee and we're going to put this candidature into the session room. The new head of the State Department is approved by 226 votes. I can tell you my personal opinion. It seems to me that Derterradio should start a really new phase in her life. Because I don't think everything in this committee's work has been in line with the media market and taxpayers' interests in recent years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u93	I think that's the question you're going to ask the candidate for this position. The question is given by Hara Vasil Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u94	Dear Andrei Vitalievich! You almost answered the question, here's your last phrase. To Ivan Chiju, as far as I know, there were no special claims in the previous period of his work. And I wanted to ask a question, I considered the Committee, we know that it had made a statement, considered the possibility of continuing its work. Were such proposals and how was it voted if they were?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u95	Further work by John Sergiyovich in office? No, we haven't considered that. And once again, I can only say my personal opinion. It seems to me that there should be a new professional and, preferably, a politically uninvolved person in this office. Because in the history of this vendetta, it was often used as a political instrument.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u96	Thank you, Andrey Vitaliyovich, please take your seats. Thank you for the report. Deputies! Ivan Sergiyovich Chizh worked as chairman of the committee for a long period of time. In accordance with the Constitution, the decision was taken by Parliament in this regard. I realize that both in a political sense and perhaps in a professional way there could have been observations, dissatisfactions, and so forth. But he carried out his duties in good faith, and he needs to be thanked for the work. In the meantime, come on, he asked for one minute of time to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u97	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander! Dear fellow national MPs! I think both professionalism, and decency, and consideration, and political non-engagement were enough in my work, and for that I thank you and thank you for the team that I worked with for a long time. We've actually come to public speaking, we're actually working, and whoever comes to my place, I think they're going to add turns and it's going to be a qualitatively new system of the only information space in Ukraine, because there are a lot of problems. Now, about ethical considerations and my statements. About the statements. When I applied, and it was a deliberate step, and it was my personal position, the idea that no one was pushing me at all, and it was hard for me, in principle. On June 26, I did it, and the political situation changed after that, but I just had to get better. But on vacation, there was a sudden desire to reform the “Culture” channel, and they were assigned to the committee to eliminate district speakers. I called myself back, held a college, and I had to make a statement as a sign that the system was still in control, and, thank God, that went away. At the parliamentary committee meeting, I really confirmed my statement, and today I also support it, and I want to thank you, Alexandre Alexandrovich to you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't think we're leaving yet, and we're gonna talk to you. Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u98	Thank you. Is there a need to ask John Vasilovich? None. Then I put to the vote the draft decree on the release of John Sergiyovich from office. I'm asking you to determine by vote, your ruling is in your hands. [[11:29:48]] For 387 Decision taken. Thank you for your work. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Decision on Personal Composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of legislation during elections to local self-government bodies in Cherkasa. The reporter is Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on a ruling on the composition of the Interim Investigative Commission on the violation of legislation during the elections to local self-government bodies in Cherkasa in 2006. Dear colleagues, on July 25, 2006, an order was made to create a temporary commission of inquiry. And the ruling offered representatives that each faction would present its own representatives. And your point is that this is a draft decision. Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich is the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, as proposed, was voted on July 25th. Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich proposes to be the Deputy Head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich, Communist Party of Ukraine Bodnar Olga Borisovna, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Jereshko Igor Hennadijovich, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko In my decree is the name of Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich. It was proposed when I made a determination from the faction of “Regions”. Now the “Regions ” are asked to make a replacement, since Melnik is already a member of a commission of inquiry. And to be a member of Pachesuk Sergey Nikonovich. Next. Oilworks Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Omelyan Nikonovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Zvojnov Mikhailo Aleksandrović, “Our Ukraine” faction. Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Socialist Party And Zmir Sergey Mihajlovich, also the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u100	Is there a question for Yuri Mikolaiovich? No questions? Then sit down, please. With the changes that Yuri Mikolaiovich said about, I'm putting this project to a vote as the Supreme Council's decree in general, I'm asking you to determine. [[11:33:03]] For 355. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Order on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Omelchenka as a member of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies is under consideration. This is about replacing the committee instead of the Lachka MP Omelchenka. Is there a need to report further? But I would like us to immediately put in this decree a point so that next week they can report on the work done. Because a month ago, a commission was created. The question has to be answered, whether that was the case or not. If it wasn't, say it wasn't. If so, then we should go to the prosecutor’s office, the presentation of demarcated status, and so on and so forth. I think that's how it's supposed to work. So come on, Vitaly Terentiyovich, do you insist on reporting? You insist. Please come to the rostrum. There's a determination, he's entitled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u101	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include the interim commission of inquiry into the charges of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, which was drafted by Parliament on 25 July this year by the candidate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Grigoria Omelanovic Omelchenka, on the quota of the Yulia Timoshenko Faction Block. This proposal is based on paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council Regulation of 31 July 2006 on the composition of this commission. Please support a draft decision on this issue by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u102	Please have a question for Vitali Terentiyovich. Any questions? Please sign up for five minutes. Please, who's asking the question? I told you, Bubba. I'm sorry, I looked at Popescu, I thought I said my word to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u103	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I'm going to the question reporter. We have Gregory Omelchenko, such an impression, a state investigator for the Supreme Council, he's obviously in a dozen committees there and so on. But in view of my experience, wherever he worked, no commission brought the matter to an end, until the end. Some kind of premonition that's going to happen again. I don't mind, in principle, but maybe you need a look around, a person who's very loaded, can get rid of other commissions or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u104	I. As a member of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko, I know Grigory Omelanovic Omelchenka a long time ago. He's my brother in the "College" Party. We worked with him for a long time. I'm sure he'll handle this assignment of the Supreme Council with honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u105	Thank you. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u106	We also know this candidate very well. And we know that a few years ago, sitting in this part of the room, he was going against Lazarenko, against Timoshenko, about what they were supposed to be in handcuffs and so on, stealing the whole state. Now, really, he represents this faction. So the question arises as to whether this person is a follower or a follower. You see, he's really capable of creating a secret around him. Here we are in these documents, given to us by Germany, the States and so on. And there's a hole in the bubble. I agree with my colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine: well, you can't do that. No matter what this person was about to do, it is virtually unfulfilled. Answer the question: Is this a substitute?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u107	This is a change in the previous candidacy based on the decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u108	Then it is necessary to write in the decree – “instead”. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I was in session at the time. When we made a decision, we agreed with you that the name Laško, because he is the initiator of this process, we don't include the commission, we leave the quota behind the Party "Timoshenko Block". They're filling this quota today without changing anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u110	It's all right, I'm sorry. She still wants to ask Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u111	Matvienkov, Mariupol, faction of the Socialist Party. Well, I actually heard the answer to a question that we'd like to understand, because when I read the order, it's actually not clear that using a quota. In a large way, the decision would have to be redrafted slightly differently, rather than on the basis of the quota. Well, here's the next question. Nevertheless, I would like to hear the results of this commission's work because, unfortunately, to date, our situation with the commissions is reduced to one: to provide accommodation, to provide a car, to provide people with some explanation. Paper statues are born. How does all of this end? We would really like to see the results, because the issue of the honour and dignity of everyone sitting in this room is a matter that places a stain on the entire Supreme Council. So you have to get a definite answer, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u112	We are confident that Gregory Omelchenko will handle this assignment and will report the results of his work and the work of the commission in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u113	Vitalia Terentiyovich, he does not have to do this. That's what the commission's going to report. Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u114	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Don't you think the well-respected drafter of the bill, that we're just doing non-productive work hours, spending budget money on such trivial moments? It occurred to someone to tell them that they had allegedly bribed the MPs themselves. Now it's turning, for the second month now, the question is, really, Matvienkov says right that the cars go ahead, give the transport, then the year you're going to be investigating this one. What you're going to do is not clear. It's going to end with nothing. Does it not seem to you, as a representative of the faction who says today that she cares so much about the people – BUIT – do you not think that this is completely unthinkable what we are doing today? And I agree that next week this commission should finally say its word to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u116	A commission was created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question is very resonant in our society, and our voters need to give a very professional answer to these questions. I think Gregory Omelanovic is going to help the commission and he's going to be very active and we're going to get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat, please. King Viktor Mikolaiovich, please. The rapporteur from the committee shall be entitled, in accordance with the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, listen up! According to the Rules, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption has been entrusted with the task of examining this issue and the committee on September 6 has considered this issue and has unanimously proposed, more faithfully, supported the candidature of the Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic as the most experienced MP who has experience in investigating matters and I am confident that he will present his faction with dignity according to their quota, support and propose to vote in favour of this candidate, and finish this question, and move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u119	No questions asked by the reporter? Any questions? Sign up for five minutes. Turkov, questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u120	Alexander Alexandrovich, you can see that the computer is fairer than the head of the Supreme Council. Because when a faction asks for words, the computer gives, and you do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u121	That's what always happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised when questions arise about this problem at all. First, I remind you that it was the Anti-Crist Coalition that created this commission, initiated its work, and every faction, including the opposition, has the right to be represented on the committee. I do not remember discussing Communists or regionals personally with regard to membership on this committee. And this is also unfounded with the violation of the Rules and Law when we begin to discuss our right to be represented on a committee. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I think you need to give an explanation on this issue and allow us to use our right to be represented, which is on such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u123	Well, if that's a question to me, we unanimously voted on your quota to recommend whether to support Deputy Korja's election as a member of the commission. And start a commission, stop talking about legitimacy, about results. The entire composition of the commission will be created, and you will be informed when you demand it. I think we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u124	Alexander Valentinovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, I fully support the committee's proposals on this matter. I believe that Gregory Omelanovic will successfully handle the high commission by working on this commission. But still, I'm going to propose a second paragraph of this regulation to write that next week the commission should report on the investigation. Please, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u125	Alexandre Alexandrovich, please pass the word to Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, not so much as a reporter, I'll have a question for you as the Head of the Supreme Council. You remember that in the past, a number of temporary commission investigators were formed. Neither in Omelchenk nor in other national deputies has the matter been brought to a logical conclusion. On the other hand, you remember that we had where the Ravenna district administration led by Red was rudely, cynically, much had been issued in violation of the laws of freedom of conscience and the Constitution, and a commission had been set up. Finally, the president was removed from office under parliamentary pressure. To this day, however, the Attorney General’s Office has ignored the decision of the commission and has not violated a criminal case where 30 orders have been made contrary to the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution. And this officer on the loose to this day is Mr. Red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u128	Should I answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u129	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want us to talk about the work of all the committees in general. The committees are made up of national deputies, people you put up for these tasks. And as they conscientiously carry out their duties, such results are the result of the commission. As the head, as the former chairman of the commission for the bank “Ukraine”, there was always a problem: quorum, quorum, quorum. But those MPs who didn't attend any of the board's meetings were always here, and they were always embarrassed that there were no results. But I'd like to say one separately, according to the bank “Ukraine” the commission reported three times before you. We've made three changes to the laws, three decrees, we've saved over a billion people of government money. So the results vary from commission to commission. And if you are now seriously responsible for this question, please, your representatives, your factions, should respond conscientiously. Then there'll be a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Lukyanczuk asks a question from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u132	Lukyanczuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. I would like to take the floor to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, you'll find that I'm a little surprised by the hurry we'd like to hear the report from this committee. I think the question is serious enough. Corruption is a problem for our country and it's not the first year. And I think someone, and Alexander Alexanderovich knows this problem, that we have corruption, unfortunately, both in government structures and in regional power. So that's the problem. A problem you can't close your eyes to. And I think the commission is guilty of reporting, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, when it will be ready to do so. When he's ready to do it tomorrow, that means tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the week after the week. But it is artificial to limit her ability to work, I think, to those who do not want an objective investigation, the objective work of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u136	I can answer that question. I fully support the fact that when I set up a commission at night, I would ask them to do so in the morning. So I think it should be not a report, but information for the Ukrainian National Deputies on the beginning of the commission's activities, on the reaction of the public authorities, I'm sure that the commission, I'm not a member of the commission, but it should involve the relevant law enforcement authorities, who should be working, informing it, and the commission should already conclude on their effectiveness, on the outcome. And what needs to be reported in advance, I'm in two hands for it. This will move both the deputies and the commission, and it will oblige us to be more principled in the work of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u137	Responding to the sharp.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u138	And that might, I apologize, and that might prompt us to adopt in this room the Law on the Temporary Investigation Commissions, which is not available today. And to say that there is no efficiency, if you don't give a tool to do this commission, it's already, your honor, evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u139	Victor Mikolaiovich, I'll complete it. Have a seat, please. I'll complete the answer because I was approached by Alexander Valentinovich. In accordance with the Rules, article 80, the Supreme Council entrusts the Temporary Commission to report on its work within a period of not more than six months. Since the issue was a matter of social importance and concern to the author of this initiative, I don't know why he had this issue, and since it is being charged with it, that it has already been confirmed, that it is a lie and I, including me, insist that we include in the second paragraph of this decision the commission's commission to report on the investigation carried out before 22.09.06. So first of all, I'm going to put the draft ruling on the basis of the choice that I have to vote on as a basis. 2003's vote. 2003-D. Please support this project on the basis. [[11:51:07]] For 281 A decision has been made. Now paragraph two. To have a temporary special commission report on the investigation by 22.09.06. I'll put it to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:51:36]] For 197 Decision taken. 150 votes are needed to create a commission and to make a decision on this matter. Please. Ah, that's a separate point. Now, in general, I put this ruling to the vote. Please support. In general, it is up to the vote. Please. In general, with the plugin. [[11:52:12]] For 248 Decision taken. I passed, I told you. 248, I'll explain. The draft regulation amending articles 59-61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules will be reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, please by the author of the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the need to make changes to the relevant articles of the Rules, mainly up to 59, 61, has been caused by the concern, not surprisingly, by the faction “Blood of the Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm explaining the problem. Article 59 of the current Rules states that the minimum number of national deputies for the formation of parliamentary factions should be no less than the minimum number of parliamentary mandates received by the respective political parties elected by the political parties as a result of the elections. As a result of the election, BUT received 129 seats and a faction was formed. Article 60 of the Rules, the fourth part, states: “The parliamentary faction, whose composition is less than the necessary minimum number of national deputies as defined in part 1 of Article 59 of this Regulation, shall be declared dissolved 15 days after the date of its establishment by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” I also remind you, Your Honor, that on August 3, 3rd, on the demand of the first deputy head of the BUT faction, Alexander Turchinov, the Head of the Supreme Council, was announced that the faction's decisions of July 20, 2006 were excluded from the membership of the deputy faction "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" Borzich, Zubec, Zubik and Tolstenko. Thus, after the announcement to the chairman of the meeting, i.e. on 3 August, the composition of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” was 125 national deputies, less than the minimum number of national deputies he received in the elections. And of course, for all of us to understand, if we were to follow the rules of the Rules, we had to announce the faction's dissolution within 15 days. This is illogical, so it is better to make changes to the article of the Rules on the removal, the deletion of part one of the 59th article and part four of the 60th article, which refers to the minimum number of members of the faction. In this regard, we were asked questions. When the Head of the Supreme Council made an announcement on August 3, he gave an appropriate commission to the Legal Committee on the subject of the Rules to determine the fate of those national deputies who were excluded from the faction. Since we do not have a definition of what groups or factions they should belong to in this case, the Constitution forbids them to be part of another faction, in which case the responsibility for the loss of a parliamentary mandate will arise. And it is suggested that we now add a fourth part of the 59 articles to that effect. “The People’s Deputy, who is excluded from the membership of the MP’s faction, is non-fractional.” As well as the fourth part of 61 of this article, “The Postfaction People’s Deputy has the right to join a coalition or opposition, ” that is, it is already his right to choose in the majority or minority, as I repeat, who does not belong to any faction and belongs to a group of non-factionals. It's also suggested here, so to speak, purely editorial changes already, because we're changing, we're taking away in the 59th article and in the 60th article the terms of the faction's disappearance are changed accordingly and the title of the 60th article is changed, and instead of the words "stopping activity" replace the words "change in the fractional composition". Here's what I'm proposing, once again, is a minimum change to address the problem that the Yulia Timoshenko faction faced. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u141	Is there a question for Adam Ivanovich? Please sign up. Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u142	National Deputy Olga Bodnar, Yulia Block Timoshenko, please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Just one form of corruption is just jumping from opposition to most, coalition. And this is a very vivid demonstration of our Parliament, which I'm asking you to pay attention to, a commission that we haven't talked about in a while. As for the question, in fact. Adam Ivanovich! To make a decision to legalize people who have betrayed their constituents, you are misleading the entire Supreme Council. 59. The article says that there cannot be less than a minimum number of parliamentary mandates received by the respective political parties. I'd like to ask you to look at the CDC and they'll tell you that the minimum number of mandates was given to communists -- 21 people's deputies. That is, according to this article, there cannot be a faction of less than 21 national deputies. And the problem is with the Communists alone, when there are 20 people, your faction should be dissolved and ours should be dissolved according to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u145	I thank you so much for taking care of the Communist faction is the first. The other one. I can't count how many times you've run from the majority to the opposition. But not once have you done this to the representatives of your strength, which is, in fact, you speak quite fairly of yourself. If I have to, I'll figure out how many times it was during your different cadences. And the third. Read the article anyway, it doesn't say that the faction that got the smallest quantity is saying that the minimum number of each fraction, of each fraction. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Please don't quarrel or quarrel. Different. Why are you yelling? I'm explaining for those who scream. You can read it differently, the author of the project reads like this, and I read, for example, that the minimum number is 14 deputies. The minimum amount allowed by the legislation and the Constitution of 14 people could be a faction, if 14 deputies from one party passed, then they could create a faction. And they can't do less. Because there's a threshold. So, please don't be nervous, please, we'll make the right decision. Mishenko asks questions, and Adam Ivanovich answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Before that, there is a short line. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I understand that there may be something I don't want to say. But if it's so accepted that when my last name comes out and you stop the discussion, you just let me know and I won't take notes and everything will be fine. Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to make a point here. We understand this concern about our faction and the possibility of creating another faction of two or three people to support an active coalition. That's why we don't need to worry about it, and I think we're going to have to deal with it ourselves. In this situation, the faction has both the right to include and the right to exclude its members. But under the circumstances, we clearly say that the regulatory article that predicts the existence of a minimum fraction is based on, again, I say that we can read in different ways, at least in logic. The minimum fraction has twenty-one deputies and accordingly less than that minimum does not exist. Everything else is going to be from the wicked one and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u148	Once again, I would ask you to listen carefully or to read carefully if you had a bad hearing. It states that those who are expelled from the faction are not part of any faction and are forbidden by the Constitution. They're non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u149	A miner. I'm on your tail right now, Andrew. You obviously noticed that I had been asked a question and I answered it. The time was spent asking questions. When I answered. Please pick up the transcript and look again. Please, Greenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u150	Please give the floor to Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u151	Thank you very much. In general, if we were to think about the logic of a proportional system, we should think about such changes in legislation that would be aimed at losing the Ukrainian people's deputies their mandate if they were expelled from the faction. But somehow we've gone on this very long journey of opportunity, let's say, to the people's MP not to remain non-fractional, as the drafter wants to say, but to join the coalition and change the will of the political electorate. And to be very honest, frankly and frankly, this bill cannot be adopted until it has been concluded by the Constitutional Court. Because, you see, there are already three different thoughts about the minimum number that can be in the faction of the Supreme Council, which is the author of the bill and in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u152	Thank you for asking about the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court of the Supreme Council and you as an MP already have three calls, I think you know very well, it only applies in one case -- when it changes the Constitution. I remind you, we are changing the rules of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. As one of those involved in constitutional reform, you have all the responsibility, and there are colleagues present in the session room, and I inform you that we, as part of the national MPs, have insisted. First of all, a faction of Communists. The socialists supported us in this regard. She insisted that the expulsion of the National Deputy from the faction, the expulsion of the People's Deputy from the faction, be recorded in the Constitution, also entailing the removal of the MP's mandate. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, was generally against the constitutional changes. The “Our Ukraine” faction split in half, and only as a result of some compromise did they vote in favour of these changes. So you're absolutely right to notice that it would be worth writing down the standard you're talking about in the Constitution. Because really, right now, we can deprive ourselves of a law that we haven't passed yet, just in two cases. When a national MP chosen by the lists of a political power or other power does not form part of a faction, or in the case of a voluntary exit. For reasons of exclusion, this proposal was not confirmed in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u153	Adam Ivanovich, please sit down. And I want to draw attention to both the procedure and the content of this document. The point is that this does not apply only to opposition representatives. Perhaps a majority may be expelled from the faction, and he too will have the right to exercise his status. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, the procedure laid down in the Rules, I follow it. Please, just for a little while, because we're passing in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u154	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! On 9 September at the meeting, on 11 September this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council amending article 59-61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced by the People's Deputies, Martinyuk, Kiselov, Lukas. Registration number 2080. The draft decree proposes to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the Ukrainian National Deputy, which is excluded from the membership of the deputy faction. In this context, article 59 “Contents for the formation of MP factions” is proposed to supplement part 4 of the following content: “The national MP who is excluded from the MP’s membership is non-fractional”. The committee noted that such a change was justified and appropriate. While the decision was taken in a consolidated manner, not one member against it voted against. The committee disagreed with the change in article 59, part 1, of the minimum number of national deputies to form a parliamentary faction at the time of its formation. The Committee also considers it inappropriate to exclude part 4 of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which provides for the release of a parliamentary faction that is less than the necessary minimum number of Ukrainian national deputies at the time of its creation, and to amend article 61 of the Rules. After discussion, the Committee decided to support the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending article 59-61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of the Supplement to article 59 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In other parts of the proposed changes, it was recommended that the draft decision be revised to take into account the comments made. Please consider the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u155	Is there a need to ask questions? None. One Turk's got a question, please. All right, let's write it down so we don't have to argue. Three minutes, please. Please, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u156	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u157	Honorable Head of the Committee and Honorable Fellows! You know, any MP can make any proposal, including any change to the Rules. It's the MP's right, you can't deny it here. He can offer nonsense and clever things. That's what they say about his profession. But you can't argue your suggestions with a lie. I address you, as head of the committee, to the Head of the Supreme Council. The article clearly states: “The minimum number according to the decisions of the CBC. ” The minimum number of 21 today is the national MP. Why explain your decision by lying? Find other arguments and find arguments that involve creating new factions that don't match the choices of the voters, find these arguments, you don't have them. And that's why they find a lie, explaining that 21 deputies have to leave the faction and 125 have to be dissolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u158	If this is a matter for me, as Chairman of the Committee, that I do not explicitly agree with such an issue. If you have listened carefully to the Committee's decision, there is no decision on the matter you are talking about. That's why I read what I read. The committee's decision is what it is, and I would ask you not to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u159	I also answer your question, Alexander Valentinovich, if I have been approached. Obviously, it's not the Constitutional Court's case or anyone's case to interpret the rule of law, but it's the Supreme Council's case. I agree with you that 59 articles written today are not clear, but let's write down that you can create a faction if 14 deputies went to the Supreme Council, as in the previous Rules, but the faction can only be created by one party that went to the election for one list. So let's make this proposal, let's vote it. It's in a given text or in a given project about a very simple thing. You've expelled your people from the faction, someone else will expel their people, so where do they go when they can't get out on their own? They're going to be non-fractional. They can exercise their constitutional right as a subject of the legislative initiative and so forth. So that's what we're talking about. And you're starting to add a lie to it or something. That's not true at all. Prepare a project for changes to article 59. And I would even ask Alexander Vasilovich to support the draft decision proposed by Adam Ivanovich, and the committee will further elaborate on article 59, and we will take the matter down. Please, Mischenka, do you have any more questions? No questions asked. Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u160	Yes, there is, there Please pass the word to Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u161	Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a question for you. The committee's conclusion was really approved at the committee meeting yesterday. The question is, Why is it that the National Deputies today find a very different point than was accepted at a committee meeting? That's the first question. And the second question. Now, I'm looking at the draft decision that is adopted on the agenda today, the question that is being considered now is not included in the agenda. At the suggestion of Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council. In your opinion, can the Rules be considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council that is not included in the agenda? This question and a question that had not previously been considered in the committee, the conclusions on the relevance of its inclusion in the agenda were not considered. The documents accompanying the bill were not given to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u163	I'm going to answer the part that concerns me first. A representative of your faction yesterday attended a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and he left. And you can see that you missed the moment when the Conciliation Council decided to put the matter in order of the day. Please, calm down. Please. So this question right over here is, and it's being considered according to procedure. That's one thing. Second, there is the need to ensure the right of every MP who is in that situation. And if this need arose today, it must be met with this need and answered with the questions asked by the national deputies today. So please, you have your claims as a member of the Regulatory Committee, the more you can express at the meeting of the Committee, and there is simply no need to speak in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, answer for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u164	Dear Sergey Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! We were at the committee meeting yesterday, and I don't mind saying that we've been looking at it for about an hour and we've been back twice. Moreover, at the request of the members of our colleagues who have addressed the matter here in the Chamber, including me, as Chairman of the Standing Committee, last week, we have requested all members of the Regulatory Committee to consider the matter and prepare a draft decision by Monday on the situation that has arisen in our Hall. The draft decision was prepared and considered yesterday by all the people's representatives who are members of the Committee. Moreover, I submit that the decision of the Regulatory Committee, which I have heard, has been adopted unanimously. With the participation of all representatives of the political forces who attended the meeting of the Rules Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u165	Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss this? If you're going to discuss this, then I don't have the right to continue this session anymore, because we've used it for 15 minutes. I would ask, let's vote on this document, it's perfectly clear. Please! Do you insist on performing? Write down who wants to speak, and after the break, they will perform. After the break, it will take 10 minutes to make a statement on this subject. Krawczuk, Sulkowski, Logwinenko, Bodnar will be the first to take the floor. Ten minutes to talk. The plenary meeting will continue at 12: 45 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u166	The sitting is continuing. Please take the seats of the deputies. We've got a statement to make, and we've got 10 minutes to talk about it. Please, the word of Pupkov is Sergey Yuriovich, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". He'll be followed by Onechuk. Sergey Yuriovich, you can speak from the rostrum. Sasu? Please, Sass has a word for Pupkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u167	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The draft decree made by the People’s Deputy Martinyuk should be addressed today by Martinyuk and other members of the people’s parliament with a grave violation of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, part one of the first article, part three of article 88: The committee’s draft ruling was not previously considered. Accordingly, the committee’s conclusion as to whether it should be included in the agenda was not accepted. Parts of the second article 91 concerning the inclusion of a question in the agenda in the absence of a committee’s conclusion on whether to include it in the agenda. Part two of article 98, missing the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Part of the first article of Rule 107 of the Rules, according to which the Committee’s findings are to be considered, are to be distributed not later than 7 days before the matter is to be considered at the meeting of the Supreme Council. There was a debate yesterday at the session in this context about the possibility of considering the issue today. I fully state, by referring to the rules of the Rules, in particular the requirements of article 68, part 14, second paragraph, according to which the powers of the Supreme Council, which may, the Conciliation Council, can only make proposals to the Conciliation Board for the agenda. And according to the requirements of article 22 of Part 3 of the Rules, approved by the Conciliation Council, the draft agenda for the day session of the Supreme Council, as proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council, is submitted for approval by the Supreme Council. I'm holding in my hand the agenda of the Supreme Council session, the second session, in this list of drafts that are being considered today. As far as I'm concerned. Part 5 of article 46 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires that the decision of the Supreme Council on draft laws, regulations, other acts of the Supreme Council be taken only on the basis of issues that are included in the agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council prior to the opening of the plenary session. And this rule of law is violated. It should therefore be noted that the bill under consideration, which is not included in the agenda, cannot be considered today, and the decision cannot be taken. Regarding the essence of the project implemented. Removing the number of national MPs' restrictions on the formation of MP factions is absurd because it existed in previous regulations. She was 25 in the second vocation, 15 in previous vocations. Such standards are found in other regulations in other parts of the world. There is a disagreement between the bill and section 6 of article 83 of the Constitution. The proposed change is proposed to grant the right to non-frustrational deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u168	Let him finish his thought. You'd better focus on the meaning, and you'd start glamouring the Chief, and you'd spend time on it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u169	Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I'm not glamouring anyone. As a member of the regulatory committee, I will report to you on the requirements of the Rules, which should be followed by you. In view of the violations, gross violations of the Rules, the Ukrainian Constitution, the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, will not support the proposed draft, and, if adopted, leaves the right to refer to the Constitutional Court for constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u170	Please, the word is Onechuk. Behind him is Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u171	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies. In fact, this was the right decision to continue the discussion, because this is about making changes to the parliamentary constitution: this is what the Rules of Procedure mean for us and you people's deputies. Regarding the substance of the bill itself. Dear colleagues, we must clearly reject ideological and personal passions and be frank that article 59, due to the introduction of a proportional electoral system in Ukraine and the transition to parliamentary-presidential form of government, has lost any regulatory pressure. And I'm going to point out that the number of factions in Parliament is now determined by the voter by the election and the decision of the Central Election Commission. And it doesn't matter where the number of parties according to the threshold set by the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies” recruits and becomes a member of their own parliamentary family. So I support this part of the legislative initiative of our colleagues who are proposing to delete Rule 59. I'll even give you an example that shows that it's really not valid today. If we look at the fact that the decline of at least one national dept. of factions compared to the election decision of the CEC means that the faction can't be formed, then this applies equally to both the communists and the largest faction. But this is a nonsensus when a national MP, one national deputy leaves a faction, and the subject of an electoral process that citizens have authorized on his behalf to carry out a legislative function as such is eliminated. As for the more fundamentally complex, and let's just say it's impossible to offer the same colleagues who introduced this bill, which concerns article 61. Which allows the subject of the coalition, I emphasize, to be a national MP. Dear colleagues, part of the sixth article of 83 says that the coalition is formed by MP factions. Not the national MPs who joined the factions, but the MP factions. In other words, only those national MPs who are factions and factions who have made a coalition agreement or if the faction is large by number have the right to form a coalition. Then it is impossible to maintain the position of the change in part four, to supplement part four of article 61 of the Rules because this would be an unconstitutional situation. We can't save the pain, sorry for the national term that we were sick with before the parliamentary-presidential form of government was introduced, when MPs migrated when they wanted to, bought them or agreed to it themselves, and we have, in the end, clearly in the legal field to identify them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u172	Thank you. Sulkowski has the word. Please. Give me your word. Allow me to speak from the seat of Deputy Sulkovsky. Wait a minute. And he passed on acid? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u173	Honorable national MPs, in view of the controversy that arose in the Supreme Council Hall before the discussion began, are further evidence of the problem that we have to resolve. As one of the initiators and co-authors of the draft regulation to make changes to the Rules, I was saddened when at the committee meeting yesterday, and this was also discussed by my colleague Sass, representatives of one faction of our committee, did their best not to make a decision on this issue. Two hours of twenty minutes went by, they say, the sting of not giving the decision in a loving way. And I'm glad that in the end, thank God, common sense has taken over. And I would like to stress that the decision on this issue has been unanimously voted. Life is making adjustments all the time, and yesterday there was a faction in its entirety, today the faction is said to have ruled out its members. And we need to determine the status of these deputies who are excluded from the faction. Neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Action prohibit the formation of parliamentary groups, but we must determine the legal status of MPs who are excluded from factions as non-fractional and allow them to join an active parliamentary coalition or opposition when they make a personal statement. Therefore, in view of the foregoing, I would like to support the proposed draft regulation amending the Rules and to vote on it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u174	I have Kuzmenko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u175	Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I was, frankly, saddened by the speech of my colleague Sasa when he began his speech with what was not in the afternoon. I would strongly advise that our approved agenda is to be opened on page seven, the 9th from the top of Project 2080. So if you're saying something, you have to look at the document first and then make some statements. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to say that when they say, "You can't right now, because this is going to be a coalition subject." No one speaks of a coalition subject in this document. The signature of the national MP personally speaks only of his support for the coalition and its membership. And they create coalitions and coalition entities are factions, and this is enshrined in the Constitution. And no decision we have in this regard can change the Constitution. And the last. It was very interesting to hear and frankly it was a little scary that these people were responsible for the national security of Ukraine when they claimed that the smallest faction on the Supreme Council should be taken into account. If documents are not read, what is the point? It is quite clear, however, that in the current edition of Rule 59 in the first part: the corresponding political party, the bloc. I mean, not at all, the smallest party or the smallest fraction, but the right one. So all this talk that needs to be focused on the smallest faction is nonsense. I don't think we can leave it vague, and I agree with the Head of the Supreme Council, the minimum number of factions. Because of the fact that a number of subjects today have a number of factions in their composition, they have several parties that have been included as parties with separate parties that have entered the blocs. And so without defining the minimum number of factions, we can come up with factions of 3 men, or of 2 men, it's abnormal and it's wrong. In previous Rules, the minimum number of fractions has been and is absolutely necessary to deal with. Indeed, if one person is expelled from the faction or faction is reduced to one man, it is no reason to dissolve the faction. This is an outdated rule, and it needs to be changed. But leaving an undetermined minimum number of factions is absolutely wrong, because this could lead to a complete mix between voter will and what is actually going to be in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u176	Please, a word. Are we done with the Rules? So I'm going to announce that we've finished this discussion. And I also remind you that in terms of the legislative work that we've approved, this project is foreseen, number 2080 on page 7, as said by Sergey Kuzmenko. The committee’s decision in this regard is also positive. I understand there's some kind of conflict here, it happens. But it applies to the majority, i.e. the coalition, and the opposition. Notice that the intentions of creating a broad opposition from the various factions have already been announced here in the session hall, including the deputies who are part of the majority factions of the coalition. Therefore, it is obvious that the status of those deputies who are at least excluded from the faction must be settled so that they can continue to decide their fate. If there is a questionable situation, then the Constitutional Court will be able to make a statement on this point and say whether or not it is possible. I personally believe that factions are subjects of coalition formation, or opposition, and it is in this context that the standard of the Constitution should be read. And for individual MPs, they could be non-fractional, and then vote to determine how they feel about those projects or other projects, without violating the possibility of creating a faction that is determined by the results of the elections. Nevertheless, the project is given to you, and because the level of rights here is foreseen for all those who become non-fractional and eliminate article 59 in the first part, which today is causing different interpretations and discussions on this subject. We're just filming it as unnecessary, and that's what we're going to see in the first paragraph of the draft decision. And then it's said that those who are excluded can acquire the status of non-fractionals and then decide their fate on the basis of a statement that whether they want to be in the coalition or if they will be in opposition is their right. However, if there is any doubt on this matter by the deputies, there is a procedure for recourse to the Constitutional Court and it will be determined on this point. I ask that the draft amendment “or opposition” in paragraph 4 be voted on as a basis. Please. [[13:05:10]] For 244 As a basis, it's been accepted. In general, can we vote? You can't go all the way. Please. Wait a minute. There is a proposal to vote in general. There are MPs who deny it. Please take five minutes to explain your position. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u177	Logwinka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u178	I'd like to give Sergio Volodymyrovich Sass a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u179	Thank you. Thank you. Honourable National MPs, National Deputy Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to point out to the Chairman that, as the committee head correctly reported, the committee supported the draft regulation amending the Rules. Only in part. On the other hand, he recommended that the drafters be drafted. With regard to the rules of the Rules, I would like to point out that in accordance with article 97 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision of the Supreme Council allows for the final adoption of the draft immediately after the first or second reading, if the bill is recognized as not in need of further work. And if there's no proposal from the people's deputies. That's why I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u180	Please, Makienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u182	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u183	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. Alexander Alexandrovich, you know that for many parliamentary years, our golden rule is that there are bills that are unanimously supported and we are voting in general. If there is a note by the deputies, we usually leave it to that and our second reading is introduced. And now it's actually the whole faction against it. And the last. I proposed to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and now I just want to make a sound. I'd like to propose to the defector MPs who have moved from one faction to another, put them in a separate bed, write "VIP-persons" and bring them beer there. They've got money for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u184	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, we'll take a separate look at your proposal, okay? But it is so controversial that it is important to be careful when making such an offer, especially to individual deputies. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Lášk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u186	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that out of the 19 members of the Rules of Procedure, 10 represent the faction of “Regions”, most of them. And this majority, including us and them, voted yesterday in favour of a committee decision that was supported only by changes to part 4 of article 59. Another suggested that the drafters should redraft it. Therefore, it is not necessary to mislead people who have fully supported this decision. Only part of article 59, part 4. Everything else needs work. Because there are moments there that do not conform to the requirements of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u188	Well, please, this is where the committee head reported it. How was it possible, after his report, to mislead people when he said all of this? We're all clear. I ask you, if you have not listened to him, do not think that this is a deception. Please, Billorus would like to make a statement on this subject. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u190	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw the attention of the audience to the following situation. Yes, the committee considered the matter, and the committee head reported essentially correct. But I stressed that the conclusion adopted by the Rules Committee was distributed to the National Deputies in short form and did not correspond to what the Regulatory Committee had adopted yesterday. I think this is also a condition for us not to consider the matter today. I've already talked about it. Therefore, in order to comply with the requirements of the Rules, parts of the fourth article 97 are requested to comply with the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u192	Okay. And Kirilchuk will also comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u193	Please give it to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u194	Or school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u195	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. I would like to point out that, in principle, we can discuss, we can continue to discuss this bill, but out of the question, whether it is a language that accepts it as a whole or not. There are norms that have been used by the previous Supreme Council leadership, for which I can now express my gratitude, because despite all the difficult points, there are things that have not been overstepped. You can go through this right now. Now you can go through everything, in principle. But it would be right to postpone voting in general for this bill, to redraft. It's not what's always been, it can be different now, because morals, right, it's over. But at least in this brief, little aspect, let's stick to simple common logic, let's not turn Parliament into a factory with the stamping of favourable laws, let's turn Parliament into an abuse of individual MPs or whole factions. Let's make a decision the way we always do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u196	There is a proposal for the committee to work on this project, taking into account the discussion. So I propose that the term be put to the vote: by Friday, we work out this project, taking into account the discussion and the committee’s thinking. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please. By Friday. [[13:12:32]] For 225 The decision is not taken. So call it a second date. Once again, we are voting on just one proposal for a final date for this document. Please, calm down. By next Tuesday? Let's see you next Tuesday. Anyone for this proposal, please vote on the commission. I'm asking you, by next Tuesday, to vote. Please, there's a vote. [[13:13:19]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas. [[on construction]] This is a second-reading discussion and will report on this point to the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Bertash Vasil Mikhailovich. Please. I'm asking the MP, please don't argue! Or sit next to me, but don't yell all over the hall, so I don't hear you insult each other, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u197	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! In February of this year, the Supreme Council was adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories. Registration number 0945. Imported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine It is well known that the existing legislative and regulatory framework that regulates the provision of arbitrary documentation and the placement and construction of construction facilities does not sufficiently provide an attractive investment climate in the economy of the populace because of its longevity, opacity, duplication of many issues. Today, there is a separate issue of providing arbitrary documentation and building, agreeing on land selection, providing output data, agreeing on land and project documentation by individual government authorities is defined more than 15 laws of Ukraine and 25 laws adopted at different times and not yet agreed upon among themselves. Individual services share in the consideration and acceptance of preproject, project, and land - based technical documentation up to six times. First of all, this refers to the procedures for selecting and disposing land, the availability of well-known expertise, the provision of technical facilities for utilities to connect to engineering networks. Bill 0945, which we are considering today, is actually the first step in simplifying the procedures for granting building permits. Provision of output data for the design of construction sites in order to create the right conditions for the management of the construction of local construction regulations. During the time that had passed, no comments and suggestions from the national deputies to the committee had come. At the same time, the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill authorizes the Kyiv City Administration and the executive body empowered to do so. The Sevastopol City Council for the granting of building permits is in conflict with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and paragraph 10 of the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. We agree with this observation and ask you, Your Honor, to grant permission to remove part 1 of article 24 from the bill. This is what the Chief Legal Authority insists on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u198	Vasil Mikhailovich, since you are a new MP, I explain that we are looking at an article project in the second reading. Since this document has long been considered in February yet, your information is generally correct, but it needs to be considered in an articleistic manner. That's why you're standing in the rostrum. If there is a need for deputies to determine the position of the committee on this point, you will comment. And I'm calling it points right now. Regarding the title, it hasn't changed and in the first, more faithfully, in the third paragraph of the proposal it puts it this way: to submit to the Planning Act and to forget the territory of the Supreme Council this number of the document in article 24. Here's the first amendment. In the first part: “Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administrations in case of delegation of such powers to them by appropriate councils”, replace by “Kyiv City State Administration and Executive Authority authorized by the Sevastopol City Council”. There were no comments on this point. Is there a need to have a discussion? None. Second item. The second sentence of part three after the words “is determined by regional” to be supplemented by the words “yes, or local”. This is about the council. The third point. In part ten, replace “regional and local” with “regional and, or local”. There were no objections either. The editing is made in the following comments. In the first part of article 26, replace the words “regional and local” with the words “regional and, or local” and replace the words “design output” with the words “other design outputs”. It's an editorial, it doesn't change the essence of the proposal. In article 27, the first part of the paper reads: “Physical and legal persons who have been granted permission to build an object, or legal persons who have received a decision from a rural, rural, city council or have been authorized by the executing authority to agree on the location of the object shall have the right to obtain the output data for the design of this object and for the execution of project-learning works.” There was no point like this before. And an editorial in the second part of this article. To complement this proposal: “For the design of objects that are defined by article 22 of this law as the main types of construction within a separate zone, instead of architectural and planning tasks, the only conditions and restrictions on the construction of land areas, as defined by local construction rules, are used as the output data.” Nor were there any observations made by the legislators. And part three, add to the sentence: “In technical conditions, there is no duplication of the regulations of state rules, standards and rules”. At the end of the day, there is also an editorial amendment regarding the fact that this law takes effect from the day it was published. And the second. The Cabinet of Ministers should submit proposals for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring Ukraine’s Laws into line with this Act within six months of the date of taking effect of this Act. That is to say, a system of legislation that regulates relations in the realm of oblivion. Since there were no points to the second-reading project, I have reason to put this Act to a vote in general if there is no objection on your part. Is there no objection? None. Therefore, I am putting the draft Law, registration number 0945, “On amendment to the Planning Act, the construction of the urban area”, to the vote as a document of the Supreme Council. Thank you. [[13:21:35]] “For” was voted by 353 deputies, thank you. Decision taken. Now we have a plan for today, and in the way that you have it in your hands, you're going to have to consider the short-term issue. This needs Parliament's approval. And that's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal to have a discussion of the following issues, you have them in mind, with a reduced procedure. This is a proposal from the Conciliation Council, I'm putting it to a vote. [[13:22:24]] For 306 Sorry, the decision was taken by 306 votes. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being considered in such a procedure. [[on the maximum wage on which insurance premiums are paid]] According to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Among the most acute social problems that Ukrainian citizens have, there is a problem with the level of pensions. In recent times, some movements have taken place there, but in principle, it has not affected Ukraine’s level of pension. If you look at what is happening now from the point of view of growth, the rate of increase in tariffs and housing and utility prices, it's clear that the level of pensions should be brought into line with the level of prices and tariffs that are taking place today. I've analyzed it very carefully, and you and I haven't been out of the election campaign that long. I carefully analyzed the programming positions of all the political forces that went to the elections. And I am pleased to say that virtually all the political forces have declared the willingness and necessity to raise the general level of pension insurance, and this makes me, as head of the Committee on Pensioners, War veterans and Disabled Persons, of course, happy. So I think that the project that I've put in place right now contains exactly the need to do this task. This is about the need for a substantial improvement in the level of pension insurance. What is hindering this problem today? In order to increase, significantly increase, once again, the level of pension insurance, we need to make changes to the laws that will help fill the Pension Fund's budget. I mean, it's impossible to solve this problem without a substantial replenishment of the Pension Fund budget. What today prevents the budget from being filled by the Pension Fund? This is hindered by the fact that today the pension fund is accounted for with a maximum of all average wages or last decisions. Ukraine's last government budget is 10 working minimums. So the point is that this sum is about 5,000 dollars. The last thing in the salary of Ukrainian citizens who get enough pay is not on the payroll of the Pension Fund. So the point is that there's some discrimination. There are two aspects to this problem. First of all, the moral-ethic aspect is that the person who gets 200, 300, 500 dollars of salary pays off the pension fund from every penny he makes. With regard to that category of citizens who receive high wages or higher wages, they pay only 5,000, and the last amount is not paid. But then there's the other side of the problem, which is that this side is what I would call financial and economic. Which is that this year, the official deficit in the Pension Fund budget is 7.3 billion dollars. This means that in order for every citizen to receive the pension he receives in time, the corresponding funds must be counted from the State Budget to the Pension Fund budget. I don't think that's the best way to use the state budget. That's why I introduced a draft amendment to the law that stipulates that the budget of the Pension Fund should be accounted for from the whole, I stress, of the entire salary of a working citizen. By the way, I would like to stress another circumstance. Today, and in one of the laws of our legislative framework governing pension insurance, that is the norm. I would like to say, speaking to my fellow national MPs, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had amended article 20 of the Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, which stipulated that, as of January 1, 2007, the Ukrainian National Deputies would be listed in the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the full amount of wages. If we don't make this change in other laws, we have some kind of legislative conflict: in one law, it's a different rule, it's a different rule. So I'd like to ask respectable colleagues to support the draft law on the payment of contributions to the Pension Fund from the full amount of wages. The Communist faction is ready to support this bill. I would ask other colleagues from other factions to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u200	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Any questions? Please sign up. Ah, this is a shortcut procedure, this is 2 for, 2 for, 2 for against. But, yes, one minute. Anyway, let's ask you five minutes. Please sign up for five minutes. They're laconic, essentially questions. Please, Tomenko. Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, please pass the word to my colleague, Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u202	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u203	They don't want to. Denisova Ludmila Leontievna, faction, block, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Please be kind, please tell me, when you speak on the rostrum, you have always talked about one side only about those contributions that will be made to the Pension Fund. How about this rule that you are proposing to adopt today's people's deputies, which will result in wage tennis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u204	Thank you for asking. You know, I've been talking about this standard being put in place to lure some money out of the shadows, and I've been hearing it for years. We cheat, we lure them out of the shadows, and they don't go anyway. So, dear colleagues, I would very much ask, you know, that the price of the question is extremely high. I mean the level of pensions for the most disadvantaged part of Ukrainian citizens. So I would ask, I understand that there may be some fate in the truth and in the question that my most respected colleague asked, but I still think that the problem that I propose to solve, and this is the problem of the level of retirement of the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine, it's worth starting today, at least, in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u205	Please, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u206	Thank you. Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It seems to me that a bill needs to be sent for work because it does not solve the problem. The point is, in this case, if you take it off the limit and on the size of the wage. In that case, that's possible and it'll be appropriate. It means retirement. Then this will be a positive step, taking into account all the gaps in our population and will be fair to all sections of the population that would not be occupied by social and economic conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u207	Thank you for asking. In fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make any decision, including the decision you have proposed. But as the author of the bill, I ask myself questions and I don't know what to answer, and in what direction it is, this particular bill, to work on. So the language goes perfectly clear in the process of preparing for second reading you can work in any direction. But I think that the main thing in this document is the idea of removing the limit on the amount of contributions to the Pension Fund. I propose to remove these restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u208	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u209	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Peter Stepanovich! Ask yourself a question and give yourself the answer to whose interests this bill is written? If the level of pension insurance depends on the payments, those who receive between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars will receive a higher pension, and those who have 400 dollars will receive a small pension. And you know the excellent recommendation, in view of avoiding such discrimination, that the International Labour Organization decide to ensure a reasonable balance between the minimum wage and the maximum wage. Doesn't it seem to you that the future of retirement is not in this artificial oppression of passion, it's in order to increase jobs and put in a normal salary that would allow you to count into the pension fund and provide for those people who earned it when you retire. And in this case, your bill will only work for rich people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u210	Thank you for asking, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I don't think I'm a problem. There is a problem in the community of pension insurance, and you know that very well. If you think there's an existing situation where, let's say, one sum is taken to account for the pension, and the deduction to the pension fund is paid from another amount, if you think it's a fairer situation, then we're looking at the situation differently. So this is about what I think, socially, once again, I'm stressing to the unjust that the employee, the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens, are paying contributions from the entire salary, and the people who are getting a much higher salary just from part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u211	Right. Please, Empty Last Question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u212	Thank you. The first question I have is, is it clear from the previous questions that this is about unlimitedly high pensions, not for the poor, but for the rich? But such laws, which lead to the cost of additional pension funds, to incomes, to budget expenditures, must be financial justifications. So I have a question, I think, perhaps, for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Why was the bill adopted and considered without sound financial justification? Because it just comes out with an artistic whistle. And the second question that the ruling party has just asked is that you are also part of the ruling coalition. Please tell me how much this law has worked out, was in line with the government, with the pension fund, with the Ministry of Social Policy, which is the position of the government here, and why do you then simply conclude that if this project is not harmonized, it will not be supported, where is the logic then?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u213	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. I want to say that the bill was before me, in my previous summons, I was simply renewing this document. And so let's talk about who the coalition, or what part of Parliament represents today, is a change in the situation and the corresponding change in how someone feels about this document. This is the answer to the first question. And as for the second question. When it comes to budget expenditure, I understand that there has to be a financial and economic justification. But I am trying to help fill the budget, not the budget spending, and in doing so the principle of the difference in the approach to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u214	Thank you, have a seat, please. We have two factions that support this project and two factions that do not support it. From the committee first, if you'll excuse me, an opinion on this matter, please, Vasil Grigorovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour had considered the bill recently and had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be sent for finalization. Reasons. First. Whatever we say, there's a real opportunity, a possible wage tension, and we've already talked about it, and I'm not gonna decipher it. There will be problems in the appointment of pensions, which I will not say, however, we do not yet have a savings system and it is difficult to imagine where this money will go from who will pay such contributions. Third. We have considered the bill twice in the past. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council of the previous assembly did not accept it, and I understand that it will not accept it in this composition. Third. I think that in order, and we're going to try to do that with the help of the Supreme Council, the coming changes in the increase in this ceiling, where contributions are due, you know, by law, are seven average wages. At present, this level of 4,960, which currently exists, has to be over 7,000, almost twice. Well, there's another argument. We can't help but mention him. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that it should be sent for further refinement. The Ministry of Finance does not accept the bill. The Ministry of Economy considers it impossible to adopt it. The Ministry of Social Policy and Labour believes that it should be sent for further refinement. The Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that it does not agree with many legislative rules, and objects. And the Pension Fund is to accept it as it is. The Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, all trade unions existing in Ukraine, also stated that it could not accept it in that form. It also objects to the Federation of Ukrainian Employers, which considers that this could have negative economic and social consequences. That's why I'm suggesting we send her to work out. Perhaps the option of increasing the rule is not, say, 7 average wages, but 10, or other options. But to adopt it as proposed by the bill today, our Committee on Social Policy and Labour finds it impossible. Therefore, I ask you to support the Committee's decision and to send this bill for finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u216	Thank you. Please sit down. Those who are in favor, in support, vote, sign up. Yes, he'll be supporting Tuck and Boki. Anyone who opposes it, please sign in. Please. I repeat, I do as prescribed by the Rules. Dry, Belarus, against. Please, Tachenko. Do you have Alexander Mikolaiovich? Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please. Sergey Matvienkov is acting in his place. Did he give you a voice? Now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u217	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today we are considering, I think, one of the most painful issues in this room, and beyond this room, I think not one indifferent person who might be indifferent to this topic. We have talked a lot recently about pension legislation and the most painful issue is not even its magnitude, but the injustice that exists today in the distribution of pensions. How can we explain to a person who has faithfully spent his entire life consciously and receives money that he cannot pay today for public payments for which he cannot, in practice, survive? Therefore, many topics today, once again, can be fidgeted in this direction, but one of the most sick is pensions before 1991. It's a totally uncoordinated subject. Other moments. The proposed bill, as far as it is concerned. We are talking about trying to shut the hole that arises in the Pension Fund and thereby increase pension payments. Let's be honest and honest. This bill, to the end as it is, will not close the hole in the Pension Fund for one simple reason, the deficit of the Pension Fund is not because not everyone pays, namely, with high wages. The deficit is in another, the demographic system that has emerged in the country, and we understand that very well. That the number of people who retire today is much higher than those who come in today's production. And we don't have a storage system yet, so to speak, but we have a consolidated system. This is a shadow where wages are paid in envelopes when wages are not paid. We took the first step, reduced the income tax. We didn't cut the payroll. Earnings continue to play in the shadows. It's a fixed tax, what we have in the country today. Of the 13 million, 6 million live in the village. And we only collect 10 percent of what we need. And a few other moments. But we are the law, so to speak, that we will not solve these problems until the end, nor will we fill in the income part of the budget. But the most important thing is that he wants to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u218	Sergey Anatolyovich, do you mind if I don't understand? Let him finish his thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u219	I'm sorry, I just didn't count on three minutes, but two minutes on short notice. We propose an option, we support the idea, and we propose that this bill be re-readed so that we, together with the Government, together with the Committee, create a commission and work more globally, broaden the problem that we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u220	Thank you. The problem is so widespread today that it is no longer possible to expand, and it needs to be solved. Please, Korz will speak against this, because he has made a statement on this subject, and “pro” will be made by the deputy of Borschevski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! Most of the people's deputies present, the parties, when they went to the elections, first and foremost, swore allegiances to what they understood to be paid, with wages below 5,000. And today we want this injustice again, when a person gets up to 5,000, he has to pay the Pension Fund in full, and when he's up to 5,000, 100,000, he's up for amnesty, we want to keep it. Here's an objection to the shadow. Thus, the issue of the fight against the shadow is not laws; it is for the prosecution, the police, the relevant authorities. Because of the shadows, we can cut any law. And the next moment. This is where they said that the pension actually reflects the level of pay. So let us pay our wages to reduce differentiation, as in no State, we can by adopting this law. That is why I appeal to you and to our radio audiences to look closely at the voting and determine who went to the elections and lied, who wants to improve their situation and who wants to improve the justice of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u222	Please, Commissioner Korge wants to speak against it. Please. And Dry. They'll both say it. That's how they signed up. They're from different factions. Please, Corge is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u223	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Please pass the word to Dennis Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u224	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u225	Good afternoon. Denisova Ludmila Leontievna, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Yulia Timoshenko. I believe that the bill that we are considering with you cannot be adopted for a number of reasons. The first and, in my opinion, the main one is that the project is antisocial, as it will lead to a reduction in real wages and a further increase in wage tension. Let's think about how much wage debt is growing in Ukraine today? To date, it is more than a billion million bracelets. And, of course, 25 per cent of this debt belongs to Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnepropetrova enterprises. [[That's a quarter of a billion dollars.]] It may be necessary to do so first in order to increase the level of pension for those citizens who are currently receiving a pension. The level of wage tension to date in Ukraine is 45-47 per cent. The world rate is less than 10 per cent. And we want to increase that figure if we take that decision, that's the law. I believe that this project violates the rights of citizens and violates article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides for the inadmissibility of reducing the benefits and rights of citizens. And this bill, it insists that our citizens will indeed be deprived of such benefits. The second reason why this law cannot be adopted is that it is in fact established, the limitation of the maximum wage on which insurance contributions are due, not to date, of the articles we are trying to introduce, but of the State Budget Act 2006, article 77. And the bill must, of course, be economically sound and cost-effective. And it has to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u226	Thank you. On this point Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich will speak, please, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin at the end of the speech of a distinguished colleague of the Communist faction. I'd like to ask you in this session room when you discuss social and political sound projects not to politicalize or hang labels that you promised someone and who's lying to you right now. Then it turns out that someone else is the truth in the last instance. For example, I promised to reform pension legislation. That doesn't mean you can make it out of a shoelace. The problem that we are looking at today is not new, it's long ago solved in Europe. And in view of that, there is a recommendation from the International Labour Organization, a recommendation from the ILO. By the way, those conventions that you and I have ratified in this room. This is about a reasonable proportion of the minimum wage. Dear colleagues, have we ever talked about the implementation of the concept of reforming the pay system in this session room? We're not talking. We'll split our pensions. To fill the legislative content of the strategy of combating poverty. But all of this depends on wages, on real jobs. To give a normal job and a person knows how to count it. Imagine if this bill started working, what kind of employer policy. He's very interested in fighting for high wages, for example, if he's in conflict with the unions, and now he's going to pay them in the shadows. Why? And figure out how many numbers there are. That is why world practice says that it cannot be done. And one more thing. I want to support my colleague Ludmila Leontiyevna of our committee, Denisov, to lift such restrictions will definitely result in an increase in the costs of the Pension Fund because our pension system is solid. We have no cumulative, compulsory, or voluntary ones. And it's going to be what it's going to be: who has a high salary, who's going to have an even higher pension, because we have a personalized account right now. Surely we should welcome the offer of a respected colleague of Zybenko that we should seek ways in this session room to improve the pension security of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u228	Thank you. We'll make decisions. In accordance with the Rules, I am obliged to put forward first the proposal of the drafters to vote on it in the first reading. And if no such support is received, then we will vote on the committee's proposal to re-read the draft after the work. I'm voting on the first proposal. Please, who is responsible for supporting this project in the first reading. [[13:51:20]] For-31 The decision is not supported. That's why. Well, please, by the factions. Please publicize. I'll call it in. This is the Party of “Regions” – 3 men, Block of Timoshenko – 1, “Our Ukraine” – 1, SPI – 6, Communists – 20. And now I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm asking you to support the proposal to transfer this question to a re-first reading after the process, as suggested by the committee. Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[13:52:07]] For 233 Decision taken. I'd like to draw your attention to such a detail. There is a wide field of activity for both authors and the committee. In comments received from, for example, the Ministry of Finance, it might be a matter of dismemberment, such as MPs, prosecutors, and so forth. We could just take this side and fill out the budget a little bit. But this question will not solve the general problem either. So let's look at it, well, let me put it this way: more specifically, taking into account all the necessary things. And what Jaroslav Mikhajlovich said I regret that the last parliamentary call did not support the draft Law on the Ratio of Maximum and Average Wages. Obviously, this issue should also be prepared and included for consideration by the Supreme Council. He's got the word "Serbian." Why am I making this announcement? We have just considered the law in the second reading on the consideration of bills to amend the Law on the Construction of Areas. And so it happened that we voted for the basic law, and there was a decree for this Law. Yuri Sergiyovich, please come here and explain what the problem is? It's my fault, I just missed that detail. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I am grateful that we have adopted the Law. Why should a decision be made? The Supreme Council of the past has decided to unite the three Laws: 945, 945-1, and 945-2. But these 945-1 and 945-2 are related to a completely different concept that is now being developed in the committee. In order for the law that we voted on to come fully into force, we must now vote on the decree that is in your hands, which divides those laws into 954 and 945-1, and 945-2. If there's a question, I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u230	Well, I think it's clear. You have a draft ruling on your hands, and I'm putting it to a vote as a decision of the Supreme Council. Please. [[13:54:56]] The decision was taken by 335 votes. The factions don't insist, there's no need. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine” is considered in the same short version to bring the law into line with actual criminal law. The report is made by School Andriy Vasilovich. And by exercising my right as Head, I continue for 15 minutes to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council, a plenary session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u231	Thank you. I just want to point out that this bill, it's not an amnesty, I don't want it to be a misinterpretation, it's the one that regulates and amends the regulatory law. We have an amnesty law, it's out of date because a number of new codes and laws have been passed, and so he's bringing this bill into line with the existing legislation on the application of amnesty. Here, I think it's pretty clear, everybody who's read, got to know, a comparative table where the concepts of change are well understood, and so I don't even call it change. That's bringing it into line with the valid legislation of the existing law. I would just like to point out that, no matter what, the conclusion that our Chief Executive, Bordenyuk, has drawn from the first reading of the bill, is that we propose to accept it as a basis. I want to point out that this is, in principle, a technical bill that needs to be adopted, beyond all others, there, for example, the law on amnesty, it will not work in full volume, it will have to be no longer adopted, or it will have to be adopted in a different way if it is not now adopted and supported and passed by the law on how amnesty is to be applied. As far as I'm concerned, the relevant committee of profile, where I had the honour of working on the previous call, also supported this bill. So I'm talking to my fellow national MPs, and I don't think we're here, so sometimes we have to go to the professional door and realize that before this professional door we have to leave certain political things behind. There's no politics here, there's a completely strict legislative initiative here, and it can be supported and not supported only by evidence of a qualified or unqualified finding of some kind of empirical change to the law. I think here you could listen to our head office and Mr. Borodniuk, who is offering to take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u232	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need for this discussion? Who from the committee would please comment on this? Please, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u233	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. I'm going to give a brief account of the content of the changes proposed to the law. The first article of the law on the application of amnesty stipulates that amnesty is a complete or partial exemption from criminal liability and punishment of those guilty of committing a crime. Deputies Kelestin and School suggest that convicted persons be tried or investigated by a court of law. That's the first change. And the next three. Amnesty is not applied to persons who are recognized as particularly dangerous recidivists. Since 2001, with the adoption of the new Criminal Code in this room, especially dangerous recidivists have no longer been in criminal law. So Andrew Vasilovich and Valerius Vasilovich propose that amnesty be extended to these individuals. Third addition. Amnesty is not applied to persons who are tried twice for serious crimes. Since 2001, the new code has been defined as “a particularly serious crime”. Thus, the authors rightly suggest that if a person convicted twice of a particularly serious crime, the more amnesty is not applied to him. So, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Law Enforcement and the faction “Our Ukraine” are proposing to support the law in the first reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u234	So there's an offer, are there willing to take a "pro" or a "against"? There are no wanters. So I'm putting forward a proposal from both the committee and a report on the adoption of this law in the first reading. please vote in favour or “against” or abstain. Here comes the vote. [[14:00:25]] For 349 There is a need to transfer it to second reading, is it still possible to vote today? It is, isn't it? Not everyone insists. Well, then let's get to the second reading. Control as the subject of the initiative, and the committee is responsible. Please. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for the Free Seizure of Land is being considered. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Player, will report to him. Leonid Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u235	Respectable Alexander Alexandrovich, respected colleagues, after the adoption of the 2002 Earth Code, who does not remember, in fact, society has come to realize that the land is a commodity. Regrettably, in today's shadow relations, this land has become a valuable commodity. If we look at the statistics that are official and confirmed by Goskomem, and the position of Goskomem, which is expressed in practical matters, are not once before the committee meeting, then I want to say that this is a national problem, because today more than 11,000 land areas are taken by themselves or by a group of citizens, or by individuals. Moreover, I would like to say that there is no region as an administrative and territorial unit, whether the areas, whether our two cities, wherever there is self-absorbing. I can even say that in the city of Kiev, this is the very center of 263 sites that are self-absorbed. Self-absorbing in all areas has tens, hundreds, and in two regions such as Donetsk and Crimean, thousands of plots. The bill I passed, it's rotten. I stress, once again, the practice, the negative practice that exists in land relations. Tortured by Goskomzem by law enforcement agencies, which have now become statisticians or warners of those who violate the rights. The rights of the State, the rights of the enterprise, the rights of the collective owner, the rights of the individual owner. In this regard, it seems to me that the bill, which provides an opportunity to raise the issue of criminal responsibility, and more specifically the criminalization of those who violate these rights in the field of land relations, is both very relevant and socially and politically relevant. I thank the relevant committee, which has carefully considered the bill, which has made proposals and comments. And I would like to support both the Committee's decision and my request to adopt this bill on first reading and then to finalize the second reading with the comments made at the meeting of the relevant committee and may be made by you, my colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u236	Thank you, have a seat, please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretović, a committee member, makes a report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u237	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security and Law Protection has considered a draft of the Ukrainian National Deputy Player Leonid Ivanovic's Act on Change in the Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Codes on the responsibility for the arbitrary capture of the land. The bill proposes to supplement the existing Criminal Code with a new article 356 with a single badge and to amend article 112 accordingly with regard to the criminality of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in order to establish criminal responsibility for the arbitrary seizure of the land. Considering that the implementation of these legislative proposals will contribute to strengthening the fight against land violations, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. In particular, I would like to inform you that today, by legislation, and in particular article 53 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offence, which is referred to as the “voluntary occupation of the land area”, provides for administrative responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land. Therefore, in the process of discussing the bill, a proposal was made for the addition of article 1, article 356, to an administrative case under which the legal responsibility under the Criminal Code under that article would only come after the administrative penalty had been applied to the person in question. In doing so, the subject of the legislative initiative agreed with our discussion and proposal. The members of the committee also disagreed with the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the rejection of the bill. Because the experts' comments on his position are mostly technical and legal. Therefore, they may be included in the second reading of the project. Please support this bill in first reading mode with further committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u238	Thank you. Are they willing to speak for or against? One minute, there's Miroshnichenko and Chubarov, please. I know whether it's "against" or "against" and you're "against" yes. And you “yes, ” please express yourself. There's no need to write it down, that's enough. That's enough. You too. So Borszewski, Miroshnichenko, but they are two "for" here, the third will no longer go, according to the Rules, and Chubarov against, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at a very important draft law from my point of view. In general, we must consider the Penal Code, not even in terms of punishment, but prevention. Today, the crime of self-absorbing has become a practice, unfortunately, in our State. And today's opponents are saying that there's an administrative so-called fine today, and they're proposing to increase it to 3 to 4,000. But I did, I looked at the Internet about the value of land. When plots of ten hundred are estimated not even by tens but by hundreds of thousands, not even by bracelets, but by dollars. That's a very large amount of money, and it's very profitable, so let's just say, criminals. Therefore, we must stop these crimes today, which sometimes take organized forms, are planned, we must stop them, we must bring punishment into the Penal Code today, and this will be the most effective preventive measure against these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u240	Thank you. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u241	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, Novgorod-Seversky. Dear colleagues, today I would like to speak, first of all, not as an MP, but as a lawyer. Because the main goal, I think, of the bill that we are now given is to ensure that the law is in force, that we ensure that the land itself is used. And since we see such phenomena that the rule of law doesn't work, we need to change the sanction. Because mass are the very facts of the self-absorbing of the earth, as my previous reporting colleague has suggested, the sanction. Acting legislation is not effective, so it does not ensure the functioning of the norm; today we need to examine how we can achieve the application of the rule of law. We are asked by the initiators of the legislative initiative to establish a criminal responsibility that, in my view, as a lawyer, it is appropriate that it takes effect not immediately, but only after the administrative sanction has been applied. So I urge my colleague, regardless of our party membership, to support this bill. In this way, correct the actual situation that has arisen. There is still a very important and political aspect. Since landowner’s rights are violated, there is a conflict of interests between those who own the land on legal grounds and those who seize it, that is, the land. Not rarely, considering that the law does not work, we see conflicts, including ethnic conflicts, conflicts in business, conflicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u242	Thank you. Rephat Chubarov, are you talking about that too? Something I can't believe is wrong. We'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the high-ranking voters! The explanatory note to the draft law under consideration indicates that the adoption of this law requires improvements in the system of public administration and control of land use, protection, and so on. It must be understood, though, that behind these seemingly well - intentioned purposes, there is a desire to fortify those who have been illegally disposed of throughout Ukraine forever. And against all those who need the earth at least for their own equipment, they will be subject to the strict standards that are offered to be adopted in law. Crimean experience shows that the overwhelming majority of the earth’s decisions made to date are illegal. So many of those today who are formal, yes and de jure also, as if they own the land, actually own it illegally. Do you know what they fear in Crimea more than anything? Those who claim to be owners of the earth? So that people who don't have a piece of land for their own equipment don't come to them, so they don't take it. For when they take it, the prosecutor’s office begins to determine the motives for obtaining the land. And then it turns out that the one who claims to be the master is not the owner of the land. Thus came the water parks, and illegal tenants came along. Every high - ranking man who lives in Kiev and in some other centers of industrial Ukraine, those who persuaded people to slow down a little bit did not take over the land on their own, waited, they all had their own land. And this law you want to stop, let's say, people's intentions to influence power in order to at least give them the opportunity to set themselves up. It's about a crime situation. Speciality. There's more to the fact that without returning a piece of land to those who were illegally taken into custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u244	Thank you, Rephat. Thank you. Kirilchuk, please. Eugene Kirilchuk speaks. Please, everyone listens carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u245	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. In fact, I don't mind the idea. I'm against the prescribed standard in this bill. The point is, we only notice the grip of the earth itself. But there is no responsibility for those whose silent consent, and sometimes written consent, this land is allowed to take its own life, but it is in vain. Because of this, I would think that the term “self-absorbing” should be very clearly defined as what happened, what happened and who should carry except for the person who processed the land, who allowed it. We have about 40 percent of the land today, which is and which has been captured by them, not just captured, given to them to work as bribes, but meant to capture it. As a result, this codex should very clearly distinguish responsibility from authority from that of the one who took delight in it. Because of this, I think that this law needs to be worked out in order to make it more widely understood by people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u246	Dear friends! You see, there were two thoughts that, by the way, are not very different from each other. What everyone agrees to do after the first reading is work on the project, and the argument that he used, for example, Rephat Chubarov, is completely correct, but it's a little bit relevant to other rules of the law. And today, we need to make a proper application, and we need to consider it. I mean, the problem itself exists, but if we, of course, stole, say, a thousand bracelets, he's going to jail, but if he's got the most wealth, the land, he's got nothing. Thus, these standards need to be strengthened, but all the nuances discussed in Rephat Chubarov and others need to be taken into account in further work. And obviously, we still have to work on other draft laws here. So please have a committee proposal and a proposal from the authors, the Committee of Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovich, who heads it, recommends, despite the technical and legal errors that can be overturned during the work, the adoption of this law in the first reading. That's why I'm putting this project to a vote. Please. [[14:16:31]] For 331 Decision taken. Replica of Refat Chubarov, please. One minute, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u247	Alexandre Alexandrovich, you can't do that. I asked for a vote because you mentioned my last name twice. And what I'm going to say right now might affect the position of at least some conscientious national MPs. I'm sorry for my evaluation. I wanted to say that people come back tens of thousands. They don't have land. For 62 years when they were deported, they took away the land on which someone is building water parks or something. I wanted to say that cynicism, when it's not an adopted law that can regulate the restoration of these people's right to land, at this time in a country that wants to see itself as democratic, adopt a law with which these people, instead of just saying it -- we're restoring anything of yours, taking away the last one -- hope. Here you are today, Alexander Alexandrovich, taking away hope from these people. This room has not yet passed a law on the restoration of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, including the right to land.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-12-m0.u248	I beg you, Rephat Abdurahmanovich, if you hadn't spoken, I wouldn't have mentioned you. I am obliged to do so under the Rules. You've been given the right to a replica once you've considered the matter. I'll give it to you. You've made your point. Once again, what you're saying needs legislation, you've confirmed it again. You prepare this project, we'll look into it. In the meantime, a project on punishment for taking over land is under consideration. I don't think that's what's causing any objection and that it needs to be worked out, as the committee of profile put it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, we are adjourning today's meeting. After a break, you work on committees. The meeting will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
