ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine continues its plenary meetings. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system and register the National Deputies. [[11:00:12]] There were 437 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear National Deputies! We have two very nice messages. First. During this time, I was informed that there is no morning hunger for victims in the Supreme Council. Second message, Your Honor. Today we have the birthday of the National Deputies - Deniss' Ludmila Leontiyivna and Redfoot Sergey Vasilovich. Please welcome them and wish them health, happiness, and their birthdays will always be in such a joyful setting. Please. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council has now taken place, and by agreement, we give the floor as representatives to the initiators of the blocking of the Supreme Council. I hope they will help us to ensure order of work and ask our colleagues to sit in the workplace. And also from the coalition of democratic forces. I invite you to the rostrum of the People's Deputy Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u2	Dear voters! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Everything that has been happening in Parliament lately has prompted us to take extreme action to block the work of the Supreme Council. What were we trying to do? We tried, above all, to ensure that both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorities were able to work effectively. Without the conditions for opposition, we know that it is impossible to build an effective system of government. So as a future opposition, we defended our rights. We believed that the opposition existed not only for Parliament but not only for the MPs, but for the Ukrainian people and for the state. And not just our electorate, those who supported us, but the Ukrainian people in general are interested in ensuring that the authorities work effectively. That's not enough for all of us. And it was very important that understanding be reached in this very room, because we have been working with you for five more years. All that followed, all of these nine days, they gave us the opportunity to hear from each other. In his statement to the 10th anniversary of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine made it clear that laws, the Constitution and the Rules should be observed. And all we've been doing for the last three days: and the first meeting at the President's round table of five, and after that the work has already been done by the Conciliation Council - has shown that we have, in fact, an understanding of what we should do together. Just together, why, because we should be the only ones in this room, as Ukraine should be the only one. So we prepared and considered first in the presence of the President all the issues that we were concerned about protecting the rights of the opposition, and then, at the conciliatory council, we considered these issues more strictly. The only question on which we had disagreements in our meeting with the president was the question of the distribution of committees in principle: power is opposition. And this question, it also matters a lot because the development of an effective system of power depends on how effective both power and opposition will be. And it's understandable, and it's natural that at this time, when we've come to the consideration of this issue both in Parliament and on our concording council, that there's no instrument like this for today, it needs to be created. And it's going to be created in this room. First, by making decisions about changes to the rules. Then by adopting appropriate bills and possible changes in the Constitution. It doesn't matter who's in power, who's in opposition, who's going to depend on the lives of the Ukrainian people. This will depend on how the authorities can carry out their direct duties — that is, work effectively for the Ukrainian people and for the state. So I would like now to announce the agreement that was discussed, agreed to be one, I said, third paragraph is the committee. But today this point was agreed upon, and now on the Conciliation Council it was finally considered. We'll be working on it. Along with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u3	Victor Fedorovich, how much time do you need to spend? Because the Rules are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u4	As long as it takes. I'm going to read the deal very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u5	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u6	It's a termination agreement. on the principles of political power in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation. “We, the leaders of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine — the Party of the Regions, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Block of Our Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Communist Party of Ukraine — are aware of its high responsibility to the Ukrainian people for preserving their unity, worthy of the future of the State and its citizens, based on the principles of democratic pluralism, partnership, openness and transparency of activity, affirming the commitment of Ukraine to democratic values and the rule of law, taking into account the need to make everything dependent on us to improve the lives of the people, to uphold the principles of democratic pluralism, to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law and the rule of law, to make everything dependent on us in order to improve the lives of the people, to eliminate everything that is justified by the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law and to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law, to uphold the rule of law and rule of law and rule of law, and rule of law, and rule of law, and rule of law, and rule of law. Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Party of the Regions' Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is followed by the organization and the provision of parliamentary control functions. The opposition is followed by committees of the Supreme Council, quotas for the distribution of the positions of first interlocutors, deputy heads, secretaries and committee members to determine, in accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 76 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, in proportion to the number of MPs and the actual number of national deputies. But the principle of "power-opposition" is preserved here, and we agreed on it, and an appropriate decision will be drawn up. Proposals by the President of Ukraine regarding the nomination of the Prime Minister of Ukraine are made in accordance with part 8 of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 3 of article 64 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The appointment of a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine to carry out, in accordance with article 85, part 1, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 9, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by open voting. Fifth. To create a working group of MPs, which, together with the President's Secretariat, prepares a list of state authorities with control functions that are handed over to MP factions that are not part of the coalition within a week. On this point, I already said, we're working. By 24 July 2006, in order to form the full composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at the same time bring to the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 17, part 3, of the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The appointment and discharge of the Heads of State Administration shall take place after consultations between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine with the relevant councils. Create a working group to process for a week proposals to amend the Supreme Council Rules to give rise to the opposition to the law and establish mechanisms to control the functioning of the authority and to further enforce those rules in the law that regulate the activities of the parliamentary opposition. And point nine. Within 10 days of the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate the compatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. And the last. The parties agree that at this time today we will unlock the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Council will start working in plenary. And a dot. That's why I'm here. I want to hear the support of our coalition. Why can't I hear? Isn't there a desire to work? Thank you. I ask my fellow members of the Supreme Council to be able to work for the presidency and for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich, for your interesting and meaningful information. The word is given by the coalition of democratic forces of the Ukrainian National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it's wonderful that the Supreme Council is moving into normal working order. And I think after I say a few words. We will understand that in principle there is no blocking, no ultimatum in Parliament right now, because there are other ways of solving any issues that might arise during parliamentary activity. And I'm going to start with the fact that our entire team, the coalition of democratic forces that went to the elections separately, three political forces, we all had one point in our programming principles, without exception. We had a point that we saw the opposition of Parliament, as a new state institution, which must be given all the necessary and sufficient rights in order to exercise control over the functioning of the country, as well as to offer an alternative course to what the government is doing, the development of the country. I think that as we observe world history, we know that in every country of the world, the rights of opposition have been fought for hundreds of years and extremely difficult. And the struggle between power and opposition for rights is a very and very serious evolutionary path. And so, I wanted to draw your attention, perhaps for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, perhaps the future power, I say "maybe," because not all procedures have been implemented yet. Not only does he want not to share the opposition with all the control rights, but he wants the opposition to write the concepts of these rights and possibilities, and we make a commitment, we support it, we are the future, maybe the authorities. And I can tell you that it is quite true that until the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, ministers have been voted on, we cannot determine who in the country has become the authority and who has become the opposition and there are no guarantees as to how the vote will go through, and we all know that. And that's why when we were making documents today, and we started making them when we went into politics at all because we knew it had to be, we were absolutely firm about creating these rules without knowing who would be the authority, who would be the opposition, think that we were creating these rights for the opposition, understanding that we could be the opposition. And understanding how difficult we were when we were a 10-year-old right-wing opposition, I'm sorry, just tents and tongues to clap on microphones and rallying. We want to change this situation once and for all in Ukraine. And that's why I think that today in Parliament we are experiencing a historic moment when opposition to the good will of the entire Parliament from any chapter is given to serious, completely real instruments of control. And that's why we're now proposing an option that we've discussed that we've agreed on and that we're confident that it can become a reality. The first is to assign a clear function that the government is shaping, the reform strategy in Ukraine is implementing and then responsible for this, both before Parliament, before the opposition and before the people of Ukraine. The opposition has the right to any control system you and I will create together. And so the committees in the Supreme Council, as an instrument of our parliamentary work, are divided into two parts: these are committees that are anchored by opposition and committees that are entrenched by power. I emphasize that these are full committees with all their legislative, organizational and control functions. Committees that are permanently active will be attended by all MPs who want to work on a committee without exception. But for the opposition, the committees get even more control status, where one of the functions gets stronger -- control, without losing everyone else. So we've now come up with 15 committees in opposition, full-fledged and 15 committees in possible future power. Therefore, the committees of the opposition control boards are monitoring such as the Regulatory Committee, which allows for the control of all actions, the practical observance of the Rules, the freedom of speech, national minorities, the monitoring of the activities of law enforcement authorities and the Armed Forces, the Committee for the Control of Environmental Policy and Environmental Use, the functioning of the justice system, the Committee for the Control of Privatization, the Committee for the Control of State Regulatory Policy and the Protection of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Investors. In particular, I can say that these committees, such as the Committee for the Control of the Activity of National Shareholders, State Banks and the Administration of State Corporate Rights, were created at the request of possible future opposition. In addition, the Committee for the Control of State Tenders and Competitions, the Committee for Energy Security and Energy Conservation, and so on. And I can tell you that this is not a comprehensive list. In addition, the Court of Auditors, which was the control body, was a control body, which still had limited rights. Today, according to our agreement, the amendments to the Act on the Court of Auditors will acquire this body of extraordinary supervisory functions, which, by the move of all state finances, both corporate and budgetary. And we can say that we are absolutely open to supporting that bill that will offer future opposition. And the Court of Auditors has to make sure that no government money goes beyond the law and beyond the direction defined by the laws. I am convinced that we must, in addition to distributing packages, adopt several bills and amendments to laws, first of all, this is the Law on Parliamentary Opposition. It's about what we've prepared, our democratic coalition has prepared a bill and passed on the future possible opposition, and we said that everything you're going to write in this law in order for the opposition to function normally, we're prepared to do it, starting with the formation of a daily order without 226 votes, for example, 2 times a month or in any period that we define. For example, creating special investigation committees on any issue with 150 votes, but we always had a block -- we needed to put 226 in the agenda. We're ready to film it. And you can count it over and over again. We are ready to accept the amendments to the Rules, which envision an expansion of the rights of opposition and are prepared to adopt amendments to the Pro Committees Act, which once and for all will strengthen the distribution of committees between the authorities and the opposition, so that we do not have to do this every time in such fights. And one more thing. You remember that in the reigning European families we used to exchange children for marriage, we suggest that we exchange them with the first deputies, we invite your first deputies to the boards of directors, and we count on you to invite our political children to the committees. In doing so, we want to provide in the Committees Act that most of those control committees, where, in fact, the opposition has to work, most of them will be opposed, but it is not excluded that the deputies of power will also be present there, because the committee is full, it does not close the entry of any deputy into any committee. And in general, I'd like you to know our intentions and we're just announcing them maybe today, on a day of unlocking, but without blocking our programs, it's our visions that control is complete behind opposition. And I want to say that we're going to continue to understand that we can't just count on moral and honest policies to come to power. They can come morally and honestly, but they need to rely, not on individual qualities, but on a built - up system that is reliable and functioning that does not allow abuse. And so we're ready to think with you about how well, if a violation has been invented, a violation has been detected, what to do with this, how to end the issue and the responsibility of authority, not just control. How to make any person who breaks the law in power irreversibly answer for it. And if that happens, if our candidacy is voted Prime Minister, I can tell you that such assistance to the opposition to the cleansing of those augias is needed primarily by the authorities. And that's why I think that the consensus and the problem that's raised gives us reason to believe that the political team that Parliament is still Parliament will make historic breakthroughs in state-building. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, each of the speakers, used approximately the same time. And what I'm saying is, my dear colleagues, it wasn't about a particular faction of regions or Communists, it was about the Yulia Timoshenko Block, it was about our Ukraine, it was about the relationship between power and opposition. And it's these relationships that our Parliament should establish, I hope, for many, many years. Now, dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we report on the election of the deputy heads of the “Our Ukraine” faction of Ukrainian national deputies Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich and Onichuk Mikol Vasilovic. Dear colleagues, the next arrangement has been reached during the work of the Conciliation Board. First. Those positions that you've just heard in the speeches and on Julia Volodymyrna, and Victor Fedorovich, should be drafted by the Supreme Council's Order on the Census and Responsibility of the Committees of the Supreme Council. And according to our calculations, this decision will be ready by 12:30. That's why there's a proposal for a 12.30 recess. When there's no objection, I'm asking all eye agitation initiators, who are hanging in our room, to take it off with caution. And there will be a break until 12 o’clock for 30 minutes when you and I start a decision-making session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the technical services have not yet been able to print a draft decree that we must now vote on, so that all the national MPs can get to know him. Therefore, the technical services are asked to continue the break until one hour. And I announce an extension of my break to an hour. Please, until 1:00. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to encourage you, but I can't do that. The thing is, the task force can't get out of the draft decision yet. And that is why I continue to break for half an hour and ask the faction leaders as well as members of the Temporary Presidium to gather on the third floor for the Conciliation Council. Thank you. I understand that there are proposals, not for half an hour, but for a fourth hour’s break. But here's the question. I'll be honest with you. At four o'clock, will we be ready to get together or not? That's why I'm still asking for half an hour to continue the break and the faction leaders, and the members of the temporary presidency to gather. Let's hold on to all the moms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Now the Conciliation Council has ended, and unfortunately, we have not been able to agree on a draft of the Ordinance that relates to the number and order of the committee knowledge and their distribution. That's why the task force is going to keep working. And I hope so. I'm sure by tomorrow morning such a decision will be prepared and placed in the hall. Next question, dear colleagues. We have other questions, important questions. In particular, the election of the Supreme Council’s leadership, etc. I think there's something for the Supreme Council to work on. But now I have two factions asking me. This is the faction “Our Ukraine” and “The block of Yulia Timoshenko” are asked to announce a break for half an hour. In view of the fact that half an hour later my morning meeting is over, I close the morning meeting. The Supreme Council will continue its work at 4:00.
