ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, other members of the meeting, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, radio and viewers. We begin the sessions of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:36]] Registered in the hall. 421 deputies present. The morning session is open. According to the Rules, we have Tuesday time for speeches, announcements and statements, reports from the factions of the Supreme Council. I am asking to sign up to the factions, and in the meantime, using this opportunity, I will announce that the Supreme Council has officially registered an interfractional parliamentary group on the implementation of the threshold programme and cooperation with the Millennium Challenge Corporation. You know that in this year, Ukraine has developed a threshold program to reduce the level of corruption and on December 4 during Prime Minister Yanukovic's visit to Washington a strategic agreement between Ukraine and the United States was signed on this occasion. The total funding is $45 million. Ukraine has been qualified to receive full funding from this organization, the so - called compact, which, depending on national development priorities, may support projects to develop education, health care, infrastructure projects, and so on. Given the importance of this program, a registered group of eight national deputies, representatives of the Socialist factions, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of the Regions, the “Our Ukraine” Block. The head of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Prokopovich Natalia Volodymyrna, was elected. I hope for the cooperation, understanding and support of the people’s deputies. Thank you for your attention, and I invite you to speak to the representative of Oleg Belarus's “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. What about Petruk? Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Taking advantage of the fact that it is the anniversary of the Ukrainian Army’s military forces today, he wanted to congratulate all soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who are serving in the army with this day, to wish them happiness, health, strength, and great patience. Patience because today, you know, for the Armed Forces, there is such a budget that it is necessary for the military to be patient. It is necessary to withstand 2007 because the budget allocated is not enough to develop the Armed Forces, to raise wages and everything else that the Armed Forces are concerned with. I would like here, in the presence of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, to have time, to review and still add funding to the Armed Forces, even though within two percent of GDP, then you can talk about the development of the Armed Forces, you can talk about everything else. The second thing I'd like to say is that the government's unlimited increase in tariffs on utilities leads to a crisis of non-payment and social tension in the regions. Yes, in Kiev, Mayor Cherniwiecki made a New Year’s gift by raising the tariffs 3.5 times. During the performances of the Kiev faction of BUT, our deputies, one of them with a concussion, were beaten in the session hall by security guards of Chernivetsk. The BUT faction requires the Supreme Council to set up an investigation commission to investigate this criminal fact. And then there's the third one. Addressing the Supreme Council of Ukrainian Officers, members of the BUT faction. “We, Ukrainian officers, national deputies from the Yulia Timoshenko faction from the parliamentary rostrum, claim contempt for the person who disgraced herself and showed an elementary sense of haughtiness last week on the "Freedom of speech" broadcast. The whole country has witnessed an unprincipled lowliness of mind, a man who embraces one of the governing positions in parliament. On direct air, the first Vice-Speaker Martinyuk allowed himself, in relation to Julia Tymoshenko, words for which, according to the concept of honor, responsibility should be borne. When I insulted Julia Timoshenko, I count all the women — our mothers, sisters, and wives. We ask the first Vice Speaker to immediately apologize to Julia Timoshenko. If you refuse to take the step required by basic human decency, honor, we will consider you a primitive man. You may have seen or read in movies, and you may be familiar with the concept of male honor, make an effort to apologize. We are confident that, regardless of political affiliation, you will be expected to have everyone present in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u3	The word is given by Boki Ivan Sidorovich of the Socialist faction, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u4	Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! As you know, yesterday, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine vetoed the Ukrainian Budget Act. Ukraine’s State Budget 2007 If you read the President's budget proposals, it's like he's really concerned about the interests of the Ukrainian people and everyone, as he's used to saying, is a small Ukrainian. Unfortunately, if you make his proposals with reality, it doesn't look like it. For example, the President notes that, under article 62 of the law, the subsistence minimum is lower than it has already been achieved and that the subsistence minimum does not correspond to the minimum amount of the pension, which is set in accordance with article 28 of the Law on Public Pension Insurance, which is set at the minimum cost of living, and that each pensioner will thus be under-receiving 26.6 per month. He can't agree with that. It's kind of the right thing to do, and at the same time, it's not the right thing to do, because you and I have adopted this State Budget Act, and we know very well that it is in this sessionary room that consensus has been reached on this issue, and that agreement has been reached that these issues will be settled in the course of the implementation of this law. But the president went even further. He also commented on a number of other articles. In particular, his calculations are also based on the fact that the level of inflation in the following year and the increase in the tax burden on the income of individuals can actually fall to the minimum wage, which is the basis for calculating the wages of about ten million workers. But we also talked to you about how the results of the first quarter of these issues in the State Budget Act will also be settled. He continues to make observations on the financing of our army's state budget. And here again, it's like he's taking care of people in military form. But if you look at all of these things in real terms, if you look at these proposals, the budget goes up enormously, and so the budget is unbalanced. Thus, the President's veto leaves the people of Ukraine without real, normal funding in the first quarter. Because it is known that in the first quarter, if the State budget is not adopted by the new year, it will have to work on this year's budget, and there it is known that payments are even lower than those foreseen in this budget. Next, if his remarks are made to the local budgets and it is proposed that the 57th article should be applied to local budgets without State budget grants and subsidies, we will leave, in particular, a huge group of budget holders, such as teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching at higher education institutions, we will leave, in fact, for funding, once again the first quarter of this year. That's why the President's veto is actually more than the back of Ukraine, not the concern for the people. And if we're serious, if we're serious, we should be up against this veto today. But it's clear that in this room, the veto is not going to get any support. So I think we have one thing left: to explain to the people what is going on and to explain to the people what is behind the Presidential veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Babourin has the word, please. Please, calm down, listen carefully. You will have the opportunity to express your opinion. He's got a word from the Baburin Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u6	As we know, on 14 October 2006, the President of Ukraine, by his decree, almost stated that the President of Ukraine had a duty to parliament to adopt a law that compared the UAN soldier to the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Uneven and honest citizens are outraged at the fact that the head of State, with persistence worthy of better application, continues to encourage the people of Ukraine and, in essence, initiates a civil war. Many of our voters at the meetings, at the receptions, are outraged that today the Fascist leaders are trying to give the status of veterans of the Great Homeland War. At several sessions of the local councils, appeals were adopted, resolutions that strongly condemn the actions of the President. In particular, on 6 December, the Zaporozhye City Council adopted a request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prevent the rehabilitation in Ukraine of Hitler's Nazi organizations and their supporters, which states, inter alia: “In expressing the will of our electorate, we, the deputies of the Zaporozhye City Council, demand that this national disgrace be avoided for the sake of the feats of our parents and grandfathers who gave their lives for the liberation of Ukraine from fascism, prevent the memory of millions of civilians killed, tortured, mutilated by the hands of fascists and their supporters from the UN-OPA. The evidence presented in the Nuremberg Process, the archival materials and eyewitness testimony are undeniably evidence that UN-UPA, along with the criminal structures of Nazi Germany, committed terrible crimes in Ukraine. The organization of Ukrainian nationalists, Stephen Bandera, joyfully welcoming the fascist invaders on Ukrainian soil in the declaration of independence of the State, stressed: “The emerging Ukrainian state will work closely with the national-socialist great Germany, under the leadership of its leader Adolf Hitler, to create a new system in Europe and the world and help the Ukrainian people to escape from the Moscow occupation.” The verdict of the international military tribunals defines crimes against humanity as crimes without a period of time. When UN-OPA soldiers, their militias consistently claim that they allegedly fought on two fronts and against the Soviet regime and against Hitler's regime, they basically publicly acknowledge themselves as supporters of the fascists, criminals, because the international military tribunal condemned aggression against the Soviet Union by acknowledging the criminals of all those who did so. And the whole world applauded the Red Army, an army of liberators from fascism. That's why we call upon you, the Ukrainian national MPs, to resist political press and blackmail and to prevent the rehabilitation of the fascists of the UN UPA. We call upon you to ban the use of fascist symbolism in Ukraine, the spread of fascist literature, the activities of political parties and public organizations that offer the hateful ideology of Nazism and fascism. I would like to emphasize that representatives of all political parties are represented in the Horsites and that no single MP has raised his hand to vote against this appeal. And in conclusion. Today, votes are being cast again from the orange camp on the re-reburbing of the remains of the heads of the Fascist national organizations in Ukraine. I would strongly recommend not to wake up a disaster until it is quiet and sow the wind, because you will reap the storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u7	Thank you. I'm asking you to take it easy on your applications. One quotes the president's papers, indignant. The second quote is indignant. Then you're explaining your position better without indignation. Please have Leonid Kojar of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u8	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. On December 4th and 6th this year, a working visit by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to the United States took place on the invitation of the American side. The Ukrainian delegation included Minister of Economy Makuh, Minister of Fuel and Energy Boyko, National Deputies of Ukraine, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers. The main purpose of the visit, as expressed by the Ukrainian side, was the following. First, maintaining a permanent high-level bilateral relationship with the United States of America, developing a strategic partnership. Second, the presentation of the new coalition government of Ukraine, informing the US administration of the internal political situation in the country, the state and prospects of constitutional reform, the development of democratic and economic transformations. Thirdly, the deepening of trade and economic relations with the United States of America and international financial organizations. During a visit to Washington, D.C., the official program held a meeting of the Prime Minister with US Vice-President Cheney, U.S. Secretary of State Rice, US National Security Adviser Hadley, State Energy Minister Bodman, U.S. Trade Representative, majority Senate leader Frist, Senate Committee for Foreign Affairs head Richard Louver. The Prime Minister's meeting discussed the following clusters of issues. The development of a strategic partnership with the United States of America, economic and democratic reforms in Ukraine, the fight against corruption and the shadow economy, the improvement of bilateral trade and economic co-operation, cooperation in the energy sphere and overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Ukraine's accession to the WTO, the issue of European and Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine, cooperation in security and non-proliferation, Ukraine's bilateral relations with other countries, Ukraine's participation in regional conflicts. Given the importance of developing trade and investment co-operation from the United States, meetings with representatives of American business circles were given considerable attention during the visit. It is for this purpose that a visit was made to New York, including the meetings of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic with the management of the New York Stock Exchange and leading banks and U.S. companies. In Washington, D.C., there were also meetings with the president of the World Bank and the director of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, John Danilovich. No attention was paid in the course of the visit to developing humanitarian contacts. In the United States, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic devoted considerable time to association with the Ukrainian community of America and Ukrainians, particularly those representing Jewish organizations. The Ukrainian delegation visited the site of the Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C., and placed flowers in Shevchenk’s monument, celebrating the tragic terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001. The Prime Minister and the Ukrainian delegation have given great attention to the promotion of our state and the creation of its positive image in the United States, the dissemination of information about the processes that are taking place in our society today, in particular the presentation by the Prime Minister in one of the US's leading analytical institutions, the Centre for Strategic and International Research. Viktor Fedorovich also interviewed numerous local media outlets, and the visit was repeatedly made by the leading US media. Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that the Prime Minister's visit to the United States has made a significant contribution to the development of a strategic partnership with that country, helped clarify the internal political situation in our country, as well as the programmes for further reform of the Ukrainian society carried out by the government of Yanuković and the President of Ukraine. The visit was important for the development of trade and investment cooperation from the United States in order to remove formal barriers to mutual trade. During a visit on behalf of the Ukrainian government, two agreements were signed: on co-operation in science and technology and the Millennium Challenge Corporation on the opening of a threshold programme for Ukraine. In its development of international contacts, the anti-crisis coalition continues to seek solely the national interests of Ukraine, the Constitution and valid legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is given by the Jewish Paul Ivanovich of the faction “Our Ukraine. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Alexander! Honorable colleagues! Statement by the faction of the Block “Our Ukraine”. The “Our Ukraine” faction supports the decision of the President of Ukraine to return with its proposals for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007. Yesterday, December 11, the President of Ukraine vetoed this law. In her December 6 statement, our faction drew the attention of society to the numerous shortcomings of the government and the crisis coalition of documents, as well as the illegality of its consideration by the budget committee. Let's remind ourselves that the draft law contained positions that had a negative impact on the level of social security in the population. Funding for defence costs that lead to opaque public finances management schemes, interference with local self - government agencies, inefficient use of public funds. Among these are the following. Use to calculate the underperforming of the minimum cost of living for persons who have lost their jobs. This will reduce pensions for nearly 12 million pensioners. Reducing other forms of social assistance to the most vulnerable populations. Substantial declines in the rate of increase in minimum wage compared to previous years. Non-implementation of the core budget policy for 2007 on the military force. Removing before the second reading of an article that prohibited budgeting in black currency. Notwithstanding the decision taken by the Supreme Council to restore the social security of government officials, the level of costs paid in comparison to the first reading will not increase. This means that the government continues to follow its policies, degradation of public service, interference with local self-government by restricting their right to determine their own funds, interference with the right of communities to use their property, uncivilized, illegal attempts to intervene in the commercial activities of utilities and rented property relations. We cannot agree with the unwarranted, opaque distribution of subsidies in different regions, the underfunding of rural medicine, the incursion of hundreds of millions of state funds into new buildings instead of the introduction of already built objects, is a direct blow to the nation’s health. There are many other examples of antisocial budget orientation. In an effort to enforce the law, the government and the crisis coalition went to give small bribes to MPs, removing the only restrictions on pension insurance. At the same time, some members of the government, due to statements made by the Kabmin press service, had resorted to direct blackmail by the President of Ukraine, threatening that there would be no funded expenditures defined by him as the first priority. The “Our Ukraine” faction claims that such approaches are unacceptable to civil society. They testify to efforts to make the lives of the people worse today. We support the President of Ukraine's decision on the promises of the Budget Act. We call on the government and the national deputies of Ukraine to reject their political ambitions, together to consider and finalize the budget, taking into account the comments of the President of Ukraine. Our faction is ready to cooperate with the country to receive a balanced major financial document by the New Year. The President, after receiving the budget yesterday morning, has actually reviewed it by the end of the day and vetoed it so that Parliament will be able to consider the amendments he made by the New Year. I would like to point out that the President has pointed out with his remarks those sources of funding that we need, let's say, to sequester in the budget, so-called investment programs, and to focus on the social component. Today, this week and next week, the Supreme Council is in session mode. We have every opportunity for this budget to be social and for the expenditure to be funded from January 1st in full, and primarily social. I am very sorry that, including the socialists, they emphasize that. who were supposed to protect the social status of the people, the social security of the people, deny it. Dear colleagues, it's no big deal. We still have time. Not enough, the President signed financial tax laws yesterday in order to be the basis on which the budget will be formed. It can be social, all it needs is the great desire of Parliament and Coalition, a government to make this budget social. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u11	Thank you. They all came from factions. In summary, I would like to be correct in the statements of everyone who touches either the subject of the budget or any other subject. I'm in this case touching John Sidorovich's words that the President's veto is a knife in Ukraine's back. The point is that the president's amendments are worth about 5.5 billion dollars. According to the Budget Code and the principles of budgeting after first reading, amending, and thus amending, provides for a reflection of the sources of revenue to the budget. And, no doubt, that would have to be meant, because the amendment to only one point on the limitation of pensions to deputies, which I am convinced will be implemented here, and we will support this proposal by the President, however, it does not cover anything from those expenses that are foreseen in many other Presidential remarks. However, the task for Parliament and the government is, let's work together, as Paul Zebrovsky suggested, while respecting each other and not calling the crisis coalition a crisis coalition, because it is the same thing that I will say, not “Our Ukraine” but “Ours is not Ukraine” – an objection that he uses would be unpleasant. So let's still respect what's legalized and working together to implement the President's remarks. As we can make them, let us see, but the work in this regard will be done. In accordance with the Rules, I need to announce a statement by the People's Deputies of Malinovskie Alexi Petrovic, a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine's Socialist faction on his accession to the anti-crisis coalition of the MP factions of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In line with the agenda today, we have an inclusive issue: Day of the Government of Ukraine on the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations "On the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons in charge, the ranks of internal affairs bodies and some others". Yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, the following regulations are provided: for this report from the First Deputy Minister of Economy of Romaniuk Sergey Andriyovich, 10 minutes and 25 minutes to answer the question, for a report by Deputy Minister of Defence Boyk Volodymyr Alexanderovich, 10 minutes and 25 minutes, and for statements by representatives from the Professional Committee, three minutes and 15 minutes for statements by representatives from the factions, in such a way as to complete the consideration of the matter by 12 hours. Doesn't that raise objections to MPs? So I give the floor to Deputy Minister of Economy Sergio Andrievich Romanyuk. Please. First deputy, I misnamed. Ten minutes, please bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u12	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Let me inform you of the steps taken by the government in carrying out the tasks set out in the parliamentary hearing recommendations. Regarding the development of a regulatory framework for the improvement of legislation on the social protection of military personnel and the period following parliamentary hearings, a number of legislation on the social welfare of military personnel and others has been developed by the government. Especially in August of this year, the government has approved the arrangements for the provision of military personnel and their families with housing facilities that define the mechanism for housing for both the military and the military forces, as well as other military forces. The decision makes it possible to implement Parliament's recommendation to establish equal treatments for the determination of housing turnover, the taking of housing accounts and the retention of housing in case of a change in residence. The procedure clearly defines the category of persons whose housing is provided at the expense of the State Budget. The Government has also prepared a draft Law on State Guarantees of Rights, Social Protection of Military and Civil Servants Released from Military Service and Members of Their Families. The bill is expected to replace the existing law that defines the mechanism of social protection for military personnel. It will be discussed at a government meeting in the 1st quarter of the following year. Draft regulations on the organisation of the structure and conditions of the financial security of military personnel, members of the military and chief of staff and Presidential Order of Ukraine on the organization of financial security for Ukrainian military personnel. With their adoption, they will introduce the only rules and standards for the provision of money to the military and to those in charge of the warehouse, and their salaries will be substantially increased. The draft Order on the Displacement of Persons Released from Military Service to Reserve or Retirement and Members of Their Families from Closed and Distant Locations of Military Garrisons. Draft Decision on monetary compensation and approval of payment arrangements for military personnel for rent, rental of living quarters. With regard to the development of a mechanism for the issuance of targeted domestic government bonds, together with the National Bank, the government has worked out this possibility with a view to contributing housing to the special warehouse and pensioners of the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies. In accordance with the Securities and Stock Markets Act, the cost of placing targeted domestic government bonds is used exclusively for the financing of state or regional programmes and projects and for the reimbursement of the amounts foreseen for this purpose in the State Budget. In view of the fact that the construction of housing for military personnel is not a self - sufficiency program, the development of such a mechanism cannot be carried out within the framework of existing legislation. With regard to the introduction of military loans for construction and housing, a similar mechanism for subsidized youth lending. It should be noted that persons in charge of the internal criminal system and law enforcement agencies under the age of 35 may participate in this national programme. At the same time, members of the military have been deprived of this possibility, since under article 12 of the Law on the Social Protection of Military Servants, members of the military have the right to receive permanent housing for more than 20 years, usually over 35 years of age. The government is currently completing a study on the possibility of implementing a housing financing mechanism for military personnel under the scheme: 50 per cent of the cost of housing at the expense of citizens, and 50 per cent of the cost of budgeting. We believe that the introduction of such a scheme is appropriate for military and chief and military personnel who have more than 20 years of service. This will make it possible to release the budget, to channel the creation of a service housing fund. Such a scheme is relatively fast to be applied in populated areas other than district centers, where housing costs are much higher than other locations. The government has considered the recommendation of hearings on the possibility of tax exemption for the added cost of building and housing purchase operations at the expense of budgetary expenditure. In this regard, the following should be noted: in the event of exemption from such a construction tax and housing operations for individual categories, this will create a precedent for the spread of this order also for a large number of other population categories that use housing costs. In addition, the exemption from VAT from housing institutions will result in a disruption, a balancing of the overall cost system from VAT to the Budget. The government has prepared a draft decision to implement the recommendations for the release of construction workers from the local authorities for the development of social infrastructure. It reduces from 25 percent to zero the marginal size of the customer's spending on the development of the engineering and transport infrastructure in the construction of housing at the expense of the budget. In the near future, this order will be considered by the government. With regard to the definition of a land allocation mechanism for the construction of housing for a special warehouse, the government is now preparing a draft Ukrainian law that changes the order of operations, and this will allow for a simplification of order for all. With regard to the recommendations, create a government body with inter-agency coordination functions with inter-occupational housing. This question will be implemented somewhat in a different form in connection with the adoption of the State Budget, since Minbud is currently focused on all housing costs for individual categories of citizens. So this recommendation is going to be implemented in this way: through Minbud. With regard to a separate specialized nonbank institution, the government considers this to be inappropriate, since today’s institutional security provides an opportunity to perform this function. With regard to the creation of a single database from the Civil Service House, it should be noted that such a database is fully formed, it is in the Ministry of Economics, it is updated once every six months. And so the government has a complete database of those military personnel that require improvements in housing or housing. In carrying out Parliament’s recommendations on annual forecasting of subsidies for military and law enforcement agencies for the purpose of channelling certain sums to the organs of defects in places, it should be noted that these are allocated in the form of subsidies to the sites. This year, 100 million were allocated, and the following year, the State Budget project also provides 100 million. With regard to the development of a regulatory base and a mechanism for the purchase of second-market housing, this order is formed, it is adopted annually, the relevant regulations have been adopted in the past and this year. We also foresee the same mechanism in 2007 by improving it. With regard to the implementation of the cash compensation mechanism instead of the lack of housing for military personnel, this order in the Government is now being worked out, the complexity of what needs to be determined very much is the procedure for determining the value of one square metre and then counting the compensation to the area claimed by the military officer. As for the inventory and audit of military towns that were implemented by the Ministry of Defense, you know, the authorities of the KRA were, there was a verification of materials sent to the Attorney-General's Office and, at the same time, with the aim of solving the problem of providing military personnel with housing on the basis of the results of the verification, with formed proposals that relate to improving the order of construction on land that is in the use of military formations because they are state-owned. Regarding the funds spent from military towns in a particular region directly into the region, this is now being done. All the funds derived from this are allocated to military personnel by the Ministry of Defence in a regional way. Following the creation of an interdisciplinary program for the completion of construction, unfinished buildings, such a program should be said to be inadequate in connection with the proposals outlined in the next year’s budget. With regard to the rhythmic financing of housing construction, I can tell you that for today all the funds that are budgeted, including the general housing fund, the military personnel are fully listed in the accounts of the power ministries and the authorities that are financing housing. Thank you for your attention, the information is complete. Now I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions, national MPs. As long as you answer the written questions, there will be a record. Then the lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u14	A written question from the secretariat of the Party of the Regions. The head of the faction’s secretariat, Yelyasin Anatoly Vasilovich Of course, the level of social protection of military and internal affairs officials is one of the most complex social problems facing Ukraine today. She did not find an adequate solution for all the years of the existence of an independent Ukraine, and today she needs an urgent solution. There is no doubt that only the government of Viktor Yanukovič, a government of pragmatists who refused the populist talk, is able to take real steps towards solving this set of issues. What are the main points in today’s government’s strategy for enhancing social protection for the identified population categories?” Well, if you generalize the government's social protection strategy, you can set out the following: the first is to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and other categories of service personnel, which are also confirmed in the government's proposals for this direction in the State budget for the following year. The other one. This is the eradication of the misuse of illegal and purposeless use of public funds, the violation of budgetary discipline in budgetary discipline in the area of housing for military personnel and other persons in categories. Next. This is the introduction of transparent and effective mechanisms for the alienation and implementation of military assets in the process of reforming the Armed Forces, other military formations, and the elimination of imbalances in money retention, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u15	One minute to answer. Please answer briefly and briefly read or ask questions. Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Sergey Andryovich, a very specific example of this subject that we are considering. In Lviv almost 10 years ago, a military town, a land plot of 5 acres [5 ha], was liberated in the center of the city. In 2003, I forgot exactly what this auction structure is called, the service at the Cabinet of Ministers sold this 5-acre area, and 1 million 330,000 dollars were recovered. At a time when the market value is said to be 100 million dollars, experts say. We went to the Attorney General's Office -- no reaction. The Attorney General says there are no violations. Perhaps the Ministry of Economics will intervene, and the soldiers will have several apartments, houses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u17	Thank you. I want to say that the government decree that was adopted in 1998 is in force today. It's closed, which determines the next property assessment. Two evaluation standards, including immovable property, were then introduced. Unfortunately, this order is imperfect, and so there is an opportunity, let's say, without violating legislation, absolutely not by market principle to implement this property. We are now making changes to the current legislation to make this process transparent, secondly, public and third, by auctioning the price of real estate sales even higher, because practice really shows that a lot of property that's being realized is being realized, well, let's say, not at the real prices that are being put into the market today, because it's possible to implement a military town in the center of the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u18	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u19	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Sergei Andreevich, please tell us how much military equipment has been realized in recent years, how much of this money has been directed towards the purchase or construction of military housing. And a specific question about Harikov. The so-called reforms have actually destroyed many of the military higher education institutions: Kharkiv Military University, Kharkiv High Military Command School. They're standing in the center of town. I have a question. I've been trying to figure out who all this belongs to today. Because, in principle, these hostels, these barracks, these educational units could be upgraded and converted into housing. And that would be in the center of the city of Harikov, it would be comfortable enough, good housing for the military. But I don't see that happening. The number of homes provided by the military is not decreasing. Answer these two questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u20	Well, if you say so, this year, the State Budget had almost a billion dollars in the special fund to finance housing on the basis of the implementation of the assets of military personnel. Unfortunately, today only 7.9 million dollars have been paid to the General Fund of the State. Well, there it was that the realisation of property was suspended in connection with the failure to carry out a certain organizational restructuring in the Ministry of Defence. But the fact itself tells us that the military property scheme itself is not used effectively to buy housing for military personnel. That's the first one. It's different. As far as military towns are concerned, they all fall into lists of objects that may be alienated or used by the Ministry of Defense for the purpose of refurbishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u21	Please finish the thought, give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u22	They're all in the Department of Defense today. If this is about their implementation, then only then will they be transferred to the Ministry of Defense. Now all these towns are in the Mini-Defense. And it can. So, the KIC has checked the real estate in the Ministry from 2005-2006, and now these materials are being transferred to the Attorney General's Office, and now we have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u23	Sergey Andryovich, you speak plainly. Since there are colossal thefts on property, on the barracks of former, other objects, when, as it were, the final cost is realized, and then they move into commercial commerce, and there is a huge profit to be gained by specific people, we should talk about it. The Ministry of Economics is not responsible, I understand. Well, we should call things our names. I will never build up for military housing if we manage his property like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u24	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I agree with you absolutely, and the methodology that is in place today is allowing us, including within the framework of legislation, to use these schemes. But now we're bringing in a special for the big frauds themselves, let's say, they're doing the ground. Because when an object is sold, it is removed from a land that is not controlled, even though it belongs to the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u25	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u26	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Sergey Andryovich, listening to your report on the implementation of Parliamentary hearings' recommendations on housing for military personnel and other social guarantees for them, I understand that there are really big problems, there are a lot of tasks that need to be addressed. And in view of that, my question is not narrow, extremely broad. Please tell me, does the budget funding for providing military personnel with the budget for 2007 correspond properly? And do you not think that the promise made by the President of Ukraine of this law in connection with the insufficient provision for the implementation of the very problems that we are discussing today on Government Day is justifiable?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Grigorovitch. But the point is that the state budget is accepted by the Supreme Council. That's why I can't answer you here. As much as you can put into this budget, you bet you're voting for it. And the wish is, it's a different matter. And you can draw any sum here. But the budget is completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u28	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u29	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It is clear that in the next ten years, or more, under the state budget, the problem of housing is for the military and not only for the military, but also for the state in which our state is located. That's understandable. And you can't charge one budget. So the question is, what are the reserves for a year, for two, for five, for the next 10 years, for the provision of military personnel, for those who are serving and those who have already retired, or who will resign? Are there any prospects, any plans? I mean, is there an inventory of military towns? Was it made or not? We have, in Kirovograd, in Kirovgrad-25, twenty-one houses are deserted. Is it done or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Inventory is made of these towns. The thing is, the military doesn't have enough money to support these military towns is the first. It's different. There is no effective system to deal with these towns. Many of us have been approached by local authorities asking to transfer a military town to municipal property because it is looting, and it stands unaccounted for, and after the military enters it in a few years, there is nothing left to ruin. So these things have to be settled in some way. First of all, we need to increase the responsibility of those who maintain this military property once. To make such a scheme inconvenient for the military to keep, it was economically inconvenient to keep these military towns to themselves and not to use them. And, of course, it takes not only the State budget, but also the costs of the military itself, the pensioners themselves, to make long-term loans at a low bank interest rate so that non-state funds can be involved to finance housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u31	Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u32	Stepan Davimuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Sergey Andryovich, don't you see the contradictions in that, on the one hand, we're taking state housing programs with appropriate guidelines from the Supreme Council, because this isn't the first time we've considered this issue, and then the same government agencies don't support, they don't implement these programs, especially in the financial part. In fact, the budget, which was adopted by the Supreme Council for military housing, has reduced funding by some over 300 million dollars last year. First question. And the second. Why is it that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics do not offer other mediocre methods of supporting this program? For example, in Russia, in other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. First. Any program is worth something if it's supported by money. If the State budget provides for funds, it will be financed accordingly. Unfortunately, however, any state programme is not funded by 100 per cent today, and the programme is being drafted, “In terms of funding, which is budgeted”. This is the first time. It's different. With regard to other possibilities, the government is currently working on other housing financing schemes for military personnel. It's 50 over 50, it's also about housing certificates, as it's done in Russia, in order to accumulate that experience and introduce other tools to build housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u34	Vasilyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u35	I ask you to pass it on to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u36	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u37	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. Please tell Sergey Andryovich that I would like first of all to support Alexander Alexandrovich's position, the deputies who spoke, that the government has not yet used all its internal reserves and capabilities to regulate the provision of military personnel. But I have a specific question about your ministry. You know that today there is the good will of the vast majority of operators, including the giants of the Ukrainian industry — metallurgy, engineering, oil and chemical enterprises, and plans to share their income with the military. In Zaporozhye, this is how all the housing is built. But you know very well that, at the same time, they are fined for spending their income on housing for military personnel. Whether there are any legislative proposals in your government, particularly in your ministry, to promote such, I think it's a noble thing to do when the government has no opportunity, when the budget can't provide, and we have an opportunity to make up for the profits of enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. This scheme existed in the financing of housing by 2004, but unfortunately it wasn't exactly, let's say, transparent, there were some financial problems. In general, I want to tell you that any benefits are accompanied by certain possibilities of entities in order to benefit from existing legislation. Therefore, we do not today have the kind of supply that would be directed towards the creation of benefits for business subjects with a view to channeling a certain amount of income into the construction of housing for military personnel. This is contrary to the principle of tax legislation that all entities are expected to pay their profits. Everyone's going to pay -- we're going to make this profit, this income tax, we're going to build this apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u39	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u40	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Tell me, please, I didn't hear you answer the most troubling questions, but when will this problem end? But I have a question of this nature. The previous parliamentary hearings referred to specific facts, specific materials on the use of State budget funds, not as a target, which had actually been stolen. It was said that these materials would be sent to the National Security and Defence Council, would be sent to the Attorney General's Office, other power structures. Tell me, is there any result of these tests, these directions, and so on?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u41	Well, you know the tests ended in October. Indeed, the verification materials are sent to both the President of Ukraine and the Security Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Attorney General's Office. Regarding: When will this problem end? This problem will never end, for today it is worth over 90 grand. Military personnel. As long as we don't reform the army until we give the serviceman the opportunity to get the money, there will be a problem. With the mechanisms that exist today, we will not solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u42	Sergei Andryovich, you're obviously wrong: you said, "we'll start an army."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u43	We're not forming an army, we're reforming.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u44	Ah, we're reforming the army, then another matter. Please, the word has Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u45	Gennady Samofalov, MP of the Party of the Regions. Today, everyone has been talking about the lack of funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, particularly with regard to the provision of military personnel and their families with housing. Recently, I have heard from the media that it is now owned by the Ministry of Defence. property of more than 100 billion bracelets. I have a question. Is the Ministry of Finance clear on this issue? And, in principle, if so, how is it planned to attract these funds in order to provide clean housing for all those in need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u46	Well, I don't know about this amount, but there's nothing in the Ministry of Defense, because the Ministry is only the government authority of that property that's passed on to him to perform certain functions. As far as this is concerned, I can't say anything. I've never heard of that figure before. No, it's on balance. Ministry. But it's not property!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u47	Yeah, well, obviously there was a topic about the existence of a source of housing financing. I would like the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Defence to deal with these issues, to speak with the Deputy Minister, to find out the point. Stepanovich Bulba, also a military ex, says. asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I agree with you that the property of the Armed Forces is being stolen and a specific question. On July 24, this year, in a letter from the Minister of Defense, Deputy Boyko made proposals for 55 acres [55 ha] of land in the center of Poltava, released after the destruction of the artillery base. There it was clearly determined that the land was passed over to the territorial community, and the forgetful investor would be identified as the territorial community of the city. But after that, Mr. Gricenko himself, an investor, in a letter carrying out the duties of the city’s head. This is the so - called fifth element, and it is given over to this land for 25 years. Do you think that's a legal decision? And don't you think there's a fact of corruption, an element of corruption for which someone has to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. I'd like to ask a distinguished national MP: my colleague, Mr. Boyko's Deputy Defence Minister, will speak now, and he will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u50	A more accurate answer will be given. I, Stepan Andriyovich, Sergey Andriyovich, apologize, you will answer a few questions in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u51	The second question is the factions of the Party of the Regions: “What amounts were paid to implement the housing security program through the State Department that did not? What exactly are the structures that cost you? How are these structures defined, because of open competitions or otherwise?” Well, this year, you know, there were over one and a half billion dollars in the budget for all the employees, and the total fund -- almost half a billion dollars. All this money went through the treasury. Regarding the structures that are in place, and as they are determined, there is a special decision of the government that says that the implementation of military assets is carried out by authorized organizations, authorized enterprises. These companies are authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, there are two major structures: Ukrespecexport, and the National Network of auction centres is a structure that worked under the State Property Fund, and is now implementing military property through those procedures and in the order in which the government defined it. Question three.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u52	First, Gennady Josephovich will ask his question, and then you will answer the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u53	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I have two questions. One question is, It is related to what a fellow worker of the garden broke. It's whether or not they're in the state.? How much do we have? 15 governments, they. Each of them doesn't work very long. But has your government not yet been able to develop a housing program? I want all of us to understand, and first of all, Ukrainian citizenship is clear: we inherited from the Soviet Union a million 200,000 armies, we brought it to 150,000. We have enormous problems with the equipment and the people, and we do not allow the New God - Giver to be repeated. We need to provide housing for all today, or these people will no longer be tolerated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u54	What should we do with the towns? The question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u55	The first question is, there is such a program called “The Comprehensive Home Security Program”. It was adopted in 99th year and continued until 2012. So this program is. The other thing is how it's financed, how it's financed, it's already different. Second, what about towns? I've already answered that question. We're going to do this, this is the mechanism by which the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Defense, would have to get rid of those towns that it has and that it doesn't use. Because a lot of the facts are that these towns throw themselves away on their own and then there's nothing left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine – Vladimir Alexandrovich Boyko, 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u57	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. In 15 years, indeed, Ukraine’s military formation has undergone significant changes. Yet the problem of social protection of military personnel remains the same today. This is not just a matter of individual military or family, but of course the national security of our state. In view of the importance of this issue, it is being considered for the second time at a meeting of the Supreme Council. In today’s conditions, the most important social guarantees of members of the military and of the primary staff are the basic components of internal affairs, such as money, pensions, health care and housing for military personnel. In the last two years, the amount of expenditure from the State Budget for the maintenance of military formations and law enforcement agencies, including, stressing, pension and housing, has increased by 13 billion 152 million dollars. With regard to pension insurance, the basic principle of pension insurance for military personnel in Ukraine is the direct proportional dependency of the amount of pensions assigned on the level of financial security for the corresponding categories of military personnel serving in the military service. The total amount of pension costs for military and primary and military personnel is set at 10 billion 272.7 million dollars, which will allow in 2007 an average of 1,385 dollars per month to be paid per person, three times the amount of the pension. The State budget for the following year provides for the transfer of military pensions to the Ukrainian Ministry of Construction and Architecture, as well as measures for the practical disposal of ammunition and the transfer of them to the Ministry of National Space Agency of Ukraine. The measures taken at the same time increase the total expenditure of the State budget on defence and security by 22 percent for 2007. It will enable the power structures to be freed from performing their own functions and significantly increase the budgetary security of the State, including the social protection of military and military personnel and members of the military and primary forces, who directly carry out the tasks of banning and protecting Ukraine. Honourable national MPs, considering that the main issue at previous parliamentary hearings was the provision of housing for military personnel, a few words from the 2006 monitoring of the housing of military personnel. There are 79.4 families in line for housing. Among them are 64.6 families, thousands of families, including 16,000 families, who have been released or retired from the Ministry of Defence. For the financing of construction and housing, the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006 provided expenditure for the entire military formation of 1 billion 429.6 million dollars. In order to address the housing problem of this number of military families at the current price level, more than 20 billion dollars are needed, and taking into account the effective mechanism for solving this problem requires annual funding of up to 4 billion dollars. Unfortunately, Ukraine’s government budget does not provide such funding. Despite objective and objective reasons, annual funding from the general budget over the past four years has unfortunately failed to provide rhythmic, monthly funding, especially in the first half of the year. But according to the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military and Family Workers, compensation for renting and renting accommodation is paid in the event that it is not possible to provide military personnel with permanent or service housing. A 1995 Cabinet decree regulates the way money is paid for renting housing in Ukraine’s respective localities. At the same time, with the aim of establishing a powerful service housing fund for individual categories of citizens who are entitled to such housing, including military personnel, the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 6 December 2006 the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act provides 373 million dollars for Minboud and 240 million dollars for Mino-Borrown from a special fund, the State Border Services, respectively, for 2 and a half million dollars. But in the power sector today, it is alarming to transfer housing from the power structures to the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine, which, according to the latter, may lead to a delay in the construction of housing by 1 year. In addition, at the time of construction at the Ministry of Defence, there are now 200 homes of their own, and 100 more buildings are being built on the terms of the rations. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you one more question. The construction of housing for military personnel is carried out in accordance with the provisions of a comprehensive programme to provide housing for military personnel and members of their families, approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 1999 and minor changes to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2004, as well as a programme to provide housing for military personnel who have been released from reserve or resignation, approved by Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 114. A number of changes have taken place since the approval and refinement of the integrated program and the housing programme for military personnel released or retired. That's the first one. The cost of housing construction is reflected in prices that were in place in early 2003. Since then, the cost of building housing has increased by twofold. Only a reference of 1 thousand 457 dollars per square metre to 2 thousand 979 dollars. That's for 01.10.2006. It has also become operational under the laws of Ukraine on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel, which have been released in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which provides housing for military personnel who have been released for a reduction in the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces during the 3 years. The estimated cost requirement for this category for 2006 is 2 billion, 68,000 dollars. And there's more. An order has been issued by the President of Ukraine since 16 May 2005 on measures to move the Ukrainian Armed Forces to assemble military personnel under contract in the area of housing for military contractors. This suggests the need to create a powerful service home fund for these categories of military personnel. The Ukrainian Armed Forces Development Programme 2006-2011 has also been adopted, which sets out annual funding for construction, housing for military personnel. The government sees that there has been a problem with the implementation of a new national or national programme entitled “Restoration of military personnel and persons released from reserve or retired from the legal and regulatory instruments adopted in recent years”. And the law of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on other bills relating to monetary compensation for military personnel for non-receivable housing and housing loans to military personnel, members of the military and chief of staff, internal affairs bodies and other persons points to the need for their re-examination following the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a new edition of the Ukrainian Housing Code. At the end of my speech, I would like to stress that the task of formation is a fundamental one. To fulfill our responsibilities, we look forward to working together with the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u58	The question, please, is in writing, and the MPs will be written on the oral question. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u59	Here the first question came from the secretariat of the Party of the Regions’ MPs, which are the main points in today’s government’s strategy for raising the level of social protection for military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u60	It's not from the secretary, it's from the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u61	From the faction, I apologize, Alexander Alexander, of the faction. The Cabinet of Ministers has developed a draft Ukrainian law on State guarantees of rights, social protection of military and civil servants released from military service and their families in exchange for the Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, which has been in force since 1991. This bill is called upon at the legislative level to improve the system of state social and legal guarantees. The bill will be submitted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second half of 2007. And there was also a question before, also, what amounts were earmarked for the provision of housing for military personnel through the State Department? What I want to say is that there are also reports from all of the powerful sources that the housing costs are spent by the State budget for 2006 for the construction and housing programme for military personnel amounting to 1 billion 271 million dollars, all of the funds are used solely by the authorities of the State Treasury of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u62	At the same time, answer the question that Stepan Andriyovich failed to answer regarding the situation in Poltava, when 50 acres [50 ha] of land was taken for nothing, construction is now under way. The land is now worth a meter’s worth, and people pay for housing. Some become rich and others think they are so poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u63	Indeed, the designated military town has been liberated and is not used as an assignment for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Assessment and right of use of the land of oblivions and buildings that fall under. Foreclosures, made 17 million dollars. As the reporter told me before me, the evaluation is not conducted by the Ministry of Defence but by an authorized organization licensed by the State Property Fund. A $17.4 million portion of the Ministry of Defence was paid by an investor in full volume. In addition, the investor added 13 million dollars to the social development of the territorial community. I would like to add that this issue has been discussed at the Ministry of Defence along with proposals from local authorities. And 13 million were sent to the local authorities for the territorial community and 17.4 million were sent to the Ministry of Defence. In addition, as stated in my report and what Sergey Andriyovich reported, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u64	Give me a chance to finish. You'll talk now. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u65	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. In addition, you know that only the Ministry of Defence, speaking of the Ministry of Defence, has been scheduled and voted in this Ministry of Defence room for 2006 alone 1 billion 271.8 million dollars. To this end, 7,000 apartments were planned, according to the program that was approved in the same room. But we, the Ministry of Defense, got 350 million dollars, and the rest, there was a question, if you don't mind, Alexander Alexandrovich, I'll answer it right away. What's forming, well, where the cost of building housing in the power structures is taking place. I'll give you an example of the Ministry of Defense. These are the budget funds that were planned for 350 million, these are the funds from the Special Fund, for which it gives the right to all legislative acts of implementing military property and investment projects, just like Poltava, as was the case here, they were the cost of an investment project. If the Ministry of Defense gives up 4,000 700 apartments in 2006, it's not like the 350 million that were allocated from the budget, that's basically the money that came from the investment activity in this ministry. The Ministry of Defense is said to be a hostage to what should be found in forms, to seek funds to provide housing for military personnel. That's what we did. But my government report said that today such an offer is being made, and it will probably be that the construction of housing and for all the power forces will be passed on to the Ministry of Construction, but it will take time. In such a short time, in the middle of 2007, this is likely to happen. So I think that the draft position, the draft today says that these issues for the Ministry of Defence are missing, we're going to deal with them with the Ministry of Construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u66	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u67	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. This morning we received a report that a veto had been imposed on the State’s budget. In this regard, I will have such a question. Do you think that the veto in 2007 will affect the growth rate of military housing that is planned in the budget, whether it is to contain it or not? That's the first one. Next. I don't understand how there was an army of more than a million warehouses. Now the army is about 200,000. Is that how the house got released or not? Part of them went to Russia, part of them went somewhere else, housing was released? I'm fired. What's the matter with him today? Please tell these two questions, answer how this veto affects and why we have this picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. As for the veto, the first question. I'll say that, as I've already told you, we're honourable national deputies, that the Ministry of Defense has three directions to building housing. In fact, if we don't have the budgetary resources planned for 2007, then we will be doing the work through an investor to build, and through the implementation of military property. You know, in the last period, the Ministry of Defense has been under severe criticism. We have drawn conclusions from this, and I believe that conclusions will be drawn in the nearest college, which will be run by the Secretary of Defense, along with the management of the Ukraine's control and audit, and the funds will be sought to solve the housing problem. And we're counting on the veto to be overrun. As far as the second question is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u69	All right, bet in one minute, you're military, so that's one minute question, one minute answer. Davemuk asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u70	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear reporter, one of the funding mechanisms for a housing program for military personnel is funding from the Special Forces. This mechanism was subjected to acute criticism. So how much percentage of the fund went into this program? And the second. It seems, and it has also been criticized that the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers have made a mistake in giving the functions of implementing property, that is, commercial activities to the military. They're bad sellers, because it's none of their business. A new mechanism for the realisation of property has been invented and implemented. Has there been an analysis of how much more effective it is than the first stage of implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. First. In 2006, it was planned to receive 840 million dollars from the Special Fund, but we received 9 million, 147, 000 dollars. That's 1.1 percent. With regard to granting the Ministry of Defense the right to implement, once again, I would like to emphasize that the Ministry of Defence is failing to implement, the Ministry of Defence is passing on. The military towns are handing over property to authorized organizations, this is Ukrespectexport and the auction network, and they're putting it into effect. And the valuation of this property is made by an independent company that has permission to do so. And then the funds from implementation are passed on to the Ministry of Defense for Housing Construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u72	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u73	Well, I'll tell you what, it's a written question. “As it has been known, the government has been disturbed by the issue of the consolidation of the housing programme for military personnel released from the reserve or resignation and for military personnel, members of the military and chief staff?” This is the question of the State Department for the Adaptation of Military Personnel and the Conversion of Military Objects. Since last year, the Department of Defense has been transferred to the Ministry of Defence, which was formerly a national conversion center. To date, the main source of funding for the housing programme for military personnel released or retired is State Budget subsidies to local housing budgets for individual categories of citizens. In 2006, there were 100 million dollars in the budget, and in 2007, there were also 100 million dollars in subsidies to local authorities to provide housing for such a category of former military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u74	Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u75	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. I have three short questions. First question. According to the parliamentary hearings on the status of February 2006, 468 apartments were not distributed by the Ministry of Defence, which were handed over. For the period 2003-2004. What do you mean? Second question. The Ministry of Defence is constantly informing that funding for military housing is received, at best, in the second half of the year, at the end of the year. I have never heard a member of the military scream for parliament's help in dealing with this issue. Tell me, please, what do you mean? And the third question in this regard. You said you'd work with Parliament. When considering the budget on first reading, I amended it to provide 177 million for the construction of military housing. Parliament has adopted this amendment in good time. I thought the military would come to me right now to ask how, what, where. There wasn't even a call. What do you mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u76	Please. First. As far as 468 apartments are concerned, they are not distributed. Indeed, that fact had taken place. I'm going to say that since I'm dealing with these issues, we have a lot of problems to deal with right now. Even recently, we rented 194 apartments in Borispolski, 26. This is the first time in Kiev 372 apartments this year have been rented for the Kiev military garrison. We have problems with the distribution of apartments as part of the housing commission itself, and I have even more to call the mayors of cities to meet on time with the distribution committees. But what we have to say here is that the apartments give up evenly, and it's mostly about giving up by the first half of the year, or at the end of the second half. The following is true: funding at the end of the year. I'll tell you, on a schedule of funding, if we have a January 2006 plan of 74.6 million, February 74.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u77	Well, it's no use. If a billion of the budget is budgeted for a year, and it turns out that 300 million are financed, you have to call things your names: when it was done, why it was lagging behind, and so on. The killer asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Stepanovich Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u80	Thank you. From the first question, I'm sorry, but I realized that the Ministry of Defense, along with Poltava's leadership, broke the law and should answer together. But I have another question: in recent years, 32,362 cases have been brought before the garrisons' military courts and the military appeals court, and 40 million 435 thousand 499 dollars have been awarded. Most cases involve the nonpayment of funds to military officials, such as lifting aid, financial security, one - time money, shipping and field expenses, further, property funds, or the indemnity of the property itself. How do you comment on all of this? And please, if you're not ready to answer, well, I feel like you're not a military person, you're not ready to answer militaryly, then don't answer how you did it on the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u81	Stepan Stepanovich, thank you. I'll answer you in the line of work, I'll come in and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u82	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u83	Please tell us why the Ministry of Defence is so irresponsible, uninitiated, spineless, and shy when it comes to defending the interests of homeless officers. Is it so shy when it comes to solving your own housing issues? So do you know that in many cities, the number in Winnitz, which is one of the military centers of Ukraine, there is an organization of homeless officers, which, in general, is nonsense and frost, if you speak frankly? And I don't remember, for example, that somewhere like the heads of the Ministry of Defense were yelling, "Kaul!" and so on, let's do something, because it's a crazy situation where officers don't have a place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. In fact, I agree with you, we have a turn for 1911 on Winnitz for today. But you see what kind of funding I've already reported. And we're taking measures to improve it in different forms. With regard to shyness, we take action. I'm going to say that we're asking these questions where they're spending money at the Ministry of Finance, and we're there every day. And I'm all there. And the minister repeatedly spoke from this rostrum, also asked questions about the financing of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u85	It's a written question, and then it's Gourmet. You're hiding them out there, these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u86	No, I've been here so long. “How will the social protection problems of MNF military personnel who have been re-tested to non-military civil protection personnel in accordance with the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act, which is now completely unprotected?” The Ministry of Defence proposed that the proposed issue should be addressed through the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection Laws, which provides for the following rule: the special composition of the civil protection service of the Ministry of Civil Protection of Ukraine in the area of housing is extended to the acts of Ukrainian legislation governing the civil protection of military personnel and members of their families. And second, has the government carried out an analysis of the current state of inventory? Sergey Andriyovich already answered this question, but I would like to raise one question, which was asked by the Committee on Science and Education: “What has been done by the Government of Ukraine to create a educational and material base and provide adequate resources to the higher education institutions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the guaranteed acquisition of students.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u87	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u88	Ivan Gornik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear reporter! There are complaints about the President's veto for the 2007 budget. Please tell me, if there's not an army out of this billion dollars in cash. Will the Ukrainian army be able to implement its restructuring program at all. Would a lieutenant with the salary of a court servant be able to serve in the army and carry out his duties? And about the housing issue. What a question for the Ministry of Defence, the minister was always talking about two percent of GDP for housing. This is where my colleague said it was partially satisfactory. There was absolutely no progress in financing housing in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. And that's the question about Ivano-Frankiv region. There they gave up the officers ’ house and hospital on the condition that the residence would be allocated. Do you have any information about whether you received military housing in exchange for these?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. As far as the veto is concerned, really, if the Ministry of Defence doesn't get the funds that are set up in the 2007 budget, we're going to have very big problems about which, and they're already paying off the military's money. And you know that at the lieutenant's level, up to 900 dollars are received, and this has been said repeatedly, not the same as a soldier with a family. As far as two percent of GDP is concerned. The Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defense repeatedly said that if the Ministry of Defence were to be allocated 2 percent of GDP, which is 11.8 billion dollars, we can say with confidence that all the questions that had already been asked in the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals, that was the transfer of construction, and that was the transfer to the Pension Fund, that was the disposal, that was really enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u90	The question is in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u91	How are the premises and territories belonging to the decommissioned compound or the reorganized higher educational institutions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine used? Is it envisaged that such facilities and territories will be transferred to civilian higher education institutions for further use on a direct basis and that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will monitor the process? Yes, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers is in control of this process. We recently flew from Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco to Odessa on the distribution of the liberated town of the Odessa Military Institute of Artillery. Funds of military educational institutions, which are being reduced in the process of reforming the armed forces, are usually transferred to the Ministry of Education and Science. So I would like to point out that the establishment of the Military Institute of Telecommunications and Information of the National Technical University of Kiev and the Science Centre were handed over to it by the Military City of No.59. As I said before, at the Vasilkow College of the National Aviation University, part of the military property of the Vasilkian College of Air Force is also being transferred to the sphere of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Odessa Institute, and we are being directed by the Ministry of Defence to all those who are being liberated, military towns and where the Ministry of Defence has been teaching institutions, to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u92	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u93	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, I have a specific question. Volinsky County is the famous historical city of Volodymyr Volinsky, where there was once a division and a tank regiment within this city. Long ago, this tank regiment was disbanded, and many buildings remained within the city. It's a three-story barracks, it's boxing, it's a dining room and everything. The current state of these buildings is unsatisfactory. I don't know if you know, if you don't know, you can guess what's left of these buildings. The city authorities have repeatedly called on the Ministry of Defense to transfer these buildings to municipal property, provided that a few dozen families of military personnel will be provided with housing, free housing, and free of charge. Why is there a delay in resolving this issue? What the Ministry of Defense is waiting for. I'm sure it's not a bribe, it's some other reason. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. Really, thank you for saying no bribes, but, you know, there's an order from the 491R Cabinet that prohibits temporary, temporary, banning transfer and implementation, and transferring military towns to the establishment of the State Department for the implementation of surplus assets. As far as Volin County is concerned, I am familiar with the matter and the Minister of Defense has decided to transfer it to municipal property. Once we get it, and I expect that this week's decision will be made, because we are already preparing for the Prime Minister's mandate, this issue will be resolved, specifically on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u95	It's a red-headed final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u96	Sergey Redfoot, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mr. Undersecretary! You did a great job of talking about construction in cities. We have the notorious Right Training Center, where we have our own tanks where soldiers are killed on oath. So this statistic, 243 squad commanders don't have housing, 31 company commanders out of 46 don't have housing, 15 out of 23 abbots don't have housing that military training can talk about? And the second question. As far as military hospitals are concerned. Military hospitals serve not only active military personnel but also veterans, pensioners, military disabled persons, and military action. Why are they closing? Who will take care of these people?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. As far as Right is concerned, you know that at that week and the secretary of defense was there, and it's accepted that we have very little money to build, and we're giving money where the big turn is. I'm going to say that in Kiev today, 8,000 in turn are operating in Odessa and Lviv, these are such big cities. And there were planned construction costs in these cities. But we're going to review this tactic and we're going to have more money and we're going to focus on building housing in this city. As for the hospital. There is also a great deal of demand for both Dnipropetrovsk and other cities for the transfer of hospitals to the Ministry of Health. But we consider it, and we don't hand them over, we know that it's not just military personnel, it's pensioners, it's retired military personnel in these cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u98	Thank you, take your seats. From the committee of profile is the national MP, Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Honorable citizens in pursuit and members of your families! I will start by saying that the issue of housing security and other guarantees of social protection for people in Parliament's pursuits is being addressed during the calendar year for the third time. On December 1, 2005, you and I decided to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue, and we discussed the issue in advance as too important. On February 8, Parliamentary hearings were actually held, where the issue of housing and other guarantees of social protection sounded just as harsh. Today, our meeting is a bit specific, we are considering, not the problem, but the government's implementation of the Supreme Council's recommendations on the basis of hearings on this issue. I will tell you that a special task force has been set up to prepare recommendations for the committee on law enforcement, including representatives of all interested ministries and authorities, scientists, the public and citizens who wanted to solve the problem. As we prepared our recommendations, we came out of the fact that housing security and social protection guarantees for people in the heathens are not about revenge, which is a major public problem. A meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine took place in March of this year. And that's exactly where we came from, making recommendations to the government. But when I get answers to the committee, I'm going to tell you that, for example, on our recommendation that the government develop a mechanism for issuing targeted domestic government bonds, the government's response is that it's not worth it. The creation of a government body with inter-agency coordination functions, in parentheses, of a department with a record of housing, is considered useless. And so on many points of our recommendation. I suggest, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, the decision that is prepared on the committee to take as a basis and, as we often practice in this room, to postpone the final decision so that the participants of the meeting of today's department can make their proposals for the final drafting of the Supreme Council Order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u100	Have a seat, please. From the faction of three minutes who would like to speak you can sign up. Please sign in. Savocin. Zubko, please, instead of Savosin, behind him is Kravchenko from the Communists. Simonenko, please. Please. Yuri Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u101	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Socialist Party faction, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. Unfortunately, there was no minister of defense present in this rostrum and in this room today, and I think this is the attitude of the Ministry of Defence to one of the most painful and most important problems in Ukraine -- the life-support of our military personnel. Once upon a time, Napoleon proudly said: “My victories are the victories of my battalions.” Devoting real respect and respect to a military soldier and an officer who is called upon to protect the Fatherland. Today’s Government Day is a forceful testimony that in our young country, few think of such honor in their service assignments. And it's not just about the lack of funds, although of course it's one of the main ones. The Socialist faction is absolutely confident that this responsible issue – housing security will not be in place until an effective state and civil control is organized over the entire set of problems. That is why we offer our proposals for a decision. First. The relevant executives to develop a new National Housing Programme for Military Workers and Members of Their Families, which would meet the requirements of time, took into account the situation of legal instruments adopted in recent years and, above all, provided the military with real opportunities to finally resolve their housing issues. In order to develop such an effective program, full and objective inventory of sales and exchange of state military assets should be carried out. Ensure the adoption of the Ukrainian Housing Act for military personnel, primary and military personnel and certain other persons who would allow the participation of local self-government authorities to ensure compliance with State guarantees regarding the granting of housing to special warehouses and pensioners of law enforcement agencies. [[Registration number 8485]] Together with the National Bank of Ukraine, develop a mechanism for the issuance of targeted domestic government bonds for the purpose of investing housing funds for the special warehouse and pensioners of the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies, providing for the placement of these bonds in commercial banks at the expense of the reserve for possible borrowing of commercial banks and economic stimulus mechanisms for banks and other banking institutions that allocate credit resources for housing. Strengthen the role of the organs in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u102	Thank you. Simonenko is Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by a representative from the “Timoshenko Block” Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! First, the Supreme Council does not address this issue for the first time, and all of us today, like the Communist faction, are simply outraged that the system of the creation and implementation of the only State strategy for a radical solution to social problems has been virtually destroyed. The development of coordination mechanisms for the executive branch has been halted, the programmes of the integrated housing programme for the military, the housing programme for the soldiers who have been dismissed and their families have been disrupted, the development of mechanisms for granting military concessional loans for the acquisition or construction of housing. In fact, the programme for converting military facilities has been suspended. But what the so-called generals have done in 15 years, who now command the main institution of the State of Independence, is the Ministry of Defence. But what do I think we need as the people's deputies to draw what conclusion? Programmes can be discussed, but it is time to bring criminal responsibility. Why should we bring criminal responsibility? For disarmament, the disposal of ammunition has not reduced tension but increased tension. One Pavlograd Chimzavod is, of course, the most serious charge against the Ministry of Defence and Emergency Situations, that we have dozens of Chernobyl today. The illicit arms trade is a serious issue that will embarrass Ukraine today. We have missiles flying through Artemovski, warehouses in Novo Bogdanovka explode three times. In Dnepropetrovsk, in the center of the city, the rocket cuts a private face. I'm fighting the missile! What if he's got a hammer and a tooth on the blower, then what are we gonna do? I also want to talk about the fact that we've been demolished by the Academy of Land Forces, they're practically pulling it out. This is, in fact, the training of future commanders. The conversion programme is destroyed in the APC. There are experiments with children of the Ukrainian people in the Yavoriv region. This is me to you, gentlemen of the rightful nationalist forces. You voted in favour of the Yavoriv region experimenting on the children of the people of Ukraine. Kids get sick there today, and you're not going to be responsible for that. Fifteen million dollars left behind in Iraq. Nobody's responsible for this! The sale of property is carried out. It is therefore necessary to discuss today that the primary mandate is for the Office of the Attorney-General to initiate criminal proceedings and bring to justice. That's a first. Organize a court of officer honour and figure out what it is that the generals are stealing from officers and soldiers today. Where's all this going? Why did all of this become possible? Third. It must be qualified that such crimes are treason of the Family and must be judged as treason of the Family. This, I believe, must be the principled position of us people's deputies today so that Ukraine can protect its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u104	Kirilchuk. From the Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u105	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko I'd like to take another look at that. There are 2 funds in the army: a general fund and a special fund. You heard the Defense Minister speak from this rostrum, he asked what kind of special fund could there be in the Ministry of Defense? Give us what is prescribed by law, give us living money, and demand order from us in the army. What is the “special fund”? And today, I think the coalition needs to be put on its own. for its internal consideration of what the Cabinet of Ministers had decided and limited or suspended the privatization of residential towns, property derived from the service of the army for implementation, and from this implementation was to go to a special fund. Thus, the government itself is cutting down funds into a special fund because it has been six months since contracts have been concluded for the implementation of such assets and such sites have not been made. I have an official complaint from people who have made contracts and are not allowed to buy investors. Investors can't buy this property. Thus, the Special Fund does not receive money, and from the Special Fund the main funds were to go to the acquisition of housing for officers, for military personnel. And the circle is closed: no money is made, no housing can be bought, no property that is being embezzled, no looted, no property destroyed. And so they're asking this question in the hall when specific questions need to be addressed in the Cabinet of Ministers. You have the authority, you have the right, you have the money, and you have the responsibility. And you don't have to translate it into someone else. I think the committee, really, is going to do this analysis: how many contracts are made, and, I know, it's hundreds of millions of money locked up and not going to go into the budget and not go into the acquisition of housing for officers. And I think that a committee of profile needs to be analysed on this issue and in its decision to make a specific commission to the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u106	I am obliged to add some clarification on this point. And I'd like to say that under the Special Fund before, and now it's funding a gap compared to the total budget expenditure. 2004: 451 million, total expenditure; 53 million, Speczfond. [[You don't have to take help - here's the help you have, delivered, from the Ministry.]] 2005: 543 — total expenditure, 181 million — Spetzfond 2006: 445 total expenditure, Sorry, 267 total expenditure, 178 from Speczfond. It's not the government's order, it's the President's order not to waste property, it's to be sold on a competitive basis. Yeah, and the government's development decree, required by the Security Council and the President. And it's estimated from the total expenditure for the following year, 511 million, and from the Special Forces, if the order is listed, 243 million. The answer to a question, so I'd like to be correct in sayings and relying on the numbers you have in the reference materials. Please speak on “Our Ukraine” by Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u107	Lev Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” Block. First of all, I would like to thank the Government for not making it worse in 2207, but for preserving the social guarantees of military personnel in the 2007 budget. And think about it, it's been 15 years of independence for Ukraine, and more than 78,000 homeless military personnel are standing in line waiting for the state to make the army's statements of concern a reality. In order to solve this problem, it is now necessary to build not 4.5 or 5,000 apartments, but 7.5 or 8,000 apartments. We're putting the problem in a dead end. There is a need to build 7.5 to 8,000 apartments and financial resources are allocated to: 4600 in 2003; 2,800 in 2004; 5,500 in 2005; and 4,500 in 2006. Compare the numbers. The arithmetic of dynamics is clear to everyone. Let's go back to today's 2007 budget, if only the Ministry of Defense needs 1.5 billion dollars, the budget is allocated. It's all power structures, only 885. Including an unguaranteed $240 million from an unguaranteed special fund. And that's when price inflation increases, with price increases and inflation rates up to a maximum of 3.5-4 thousand apartments. This is the way to nowhere. And one more question, believe me, the homeless don't care who's going to build it, at what cost. But in the 2007 budget, there's an additional mine, which is the transfer of functions to the customer from the power structures to the Ministry of Construction. In general, this may be the right step, but when it comes to the transfer of unfinished construction, it takes at least six to nine months to document the contracts. This means that 2007 could be a failure in the implementation of a government-approved comprehensive housing program for military personnel. What do we propose? We propose to introduce the following positions to the draft decision: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 1 July to work out a new version of the comprehensive housing programme for all military personnel, taking into account the legal and legal instruments adopted in recent years and the international experience of European countries, when the State Budget for 2007 is being finalized, to find additional sources of housing allocations for construction and acquisition, without detailed justifications agreed with interested ministries and authorities, not to transfer the functions of the Chief Staff Manager from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Construction, to amend the budget of Ukraine in 2007, to complete the documentary transfer and conversion of the functions of the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Construction. I hope everyone understands the severity of the problems. And with you, we need to find this solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u108	Thank you, sit down, please. We're done. After. I beg your pardon, Gennady Samofalov, please come to the rostrum. From the faction of the region. Comrade General, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u109	I don't have anything to do with the speech today. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished present! I would like to begin my statement with two facts. First fact. As at 1 July this year, more than 45,000 troops were on the line at the Ministry of Defence for housing, 13,000 waiting for housing for more than 10 years, 17,200 troops released from the armed forces being eligible for housing for three years under existing Ukrainian legislation. It is also necessary to add the 24,000 troops that need to be reduced in the next two years to bring the strength of the Ukrainian armed forces to NATO standards. Second fact. According to the media, 92 soldiers have already been killed this year. These are the young men, the healthy ones who were lost in peacetime, waiting for everyone at home. Would it seem that there was a connection between these two facts? It's the most direct connection. I had to serve in the Turkish military district 40 years ago when I was still serving for three years. For the first time there, I faced the unspoken laws of the barracks, which I met all the time throughout my service. What do they depend on? These are, above all, unconstitutional relationships, such as bullying, abuse, beatings. And if the officers are working well, they are kept to a minimum. If he does not complete it, these facts will lead to the death of people. And officer, the flagman works well when he's in the back, in the family. He's got an apartment, he's got enough cash, he's got problems with future retirement and so on. Then he can fully serve himself. Who deals with these issues? These issues must be addressed primarily by the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence. But unfortunately, here's what I've asked the Ministry of Defence today, and yet why haven't they been able to distribute 460 apartments in three years? Problem. Yes, because we see other problems. The main problem is joining NATO. I understand you have to do this, you have to bring everything else to the standards. They should do so. But where are the NATO standards for the social protection of military personnel? How is this done in the United States, Germany, France, England? They're just gone today. Take note of the Ministry of Defence, please see the Minister of Defence, the NATO Charter, which states that the party entering the bloc is obliged to ratify the legislation of the Power. Therefore, not the Ministry of Defence, but the Supreme Council will solve the problem. In order to reduce, I will no longer give examples, I would like to say that the Party of Regions and the faction of the regions of Ukraine is proposing the next solution to the problems under discussion. First. Apparently, the Ministry of Defence would have long had to propose to the Supreme Council through the Government the formation of a military budget on a fundamentally new, transparent basis. What does it look like? As has been done in America in particular, it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u110	Don't tell secrets about it. America. Please finish your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u111	It's on a tactical basis. All the way to the brigade, where every soldier, sergeant, officer, weapons, equipment and so on is calculated. Then it'll be clear that, yes, there's a soldier's lack of oil to give money, you're not going anywhere. Now, if you'll excuse me, that expression, it's all going to the sand. Secondly, I've already said that, well, journalists know everything that there are 100 billion properties in the Ministry of Defence today, I'm not saying what. It is obvious that these funds must be looked at and taken from the realization of the provision of housing to the fullest extent possible for the military. The following appears to be the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, still needs to submit a draft law on the State housing programme, where it is clear to write out the mechanisms, responsibilities of ministries, public structures, the time frame and so on when we solve this problem. Then everyone will understand. I have a number of references here from the Ministry of the Interior, social organizations and so on. I won't read. Here are the specific proposals, I will send them to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u112	Thank you. Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. This is the day of the government's control over the execution of the decree on this matter, the orders given to the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't think I'm opening up any secrets to say that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economics have not prepared enough to report on this issue and not all questions have been answered clearly, convincingly, in any case have not satisfied the interests of the MPs who express in this case the concerns of the military and not only. Several times, especially from the Ministry of Defence, the problem was that it was not necessary to transfer housing financing to the Ministry of Construction for military personnel and to leave it in the Ministry of Defence because it was said that it would be difficult to transfer construction objects. I think there's a problem here and obviously we should leave behind the Ministry of Defense those objects that aren't finished, and let it finish them, because, sorry for the rudeness, there's a hell of a leg breaking in on the transfer, and no one will know how much they steal. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary for those who have started to finish the project, and for others to build the Ministry of Construction by its profile, it will be cheaper, more efficient, and faster. I'd like to point out that today we don't give a full answer to the demands of those people who are waiting for housing and who are themselves in the service of the army or demobilized, the point is that the funds that are being allocated in the budget for the next year are more than they are for this year, so that they are effectively used and all implemented by destination. Perhaps there are other ways to answer people’s requests when viewing or updating the budget. But anyway, we're holding this resolve and this problem under control. The draft decree provides for a return in October to this issue so that the government, which will already be fully responsible for the implementation of the 2007 programme, will report on how the current approaches differ, which concerns the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Economics, from the previous approaches. And in view of this, I would like to propose a draft decision that was proposed by the committees of profile and then to allow them to work with regard to today’s discussions and presentations, and to answer questions so that this document can be finalized later for adoption as a Supreme Council decision. If you don't object to this, I'm going to put my proposal to the vote, take a draft ruling on the basis, and assign it to the profile committees to work on it, taking into account today's discussion. There's a vote coming. [[12:14:09]] For 289 Decision taken. A break is announced in 12.45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. Let's keep this meeting going. Tomenko is. Let's move on to ratification issues. A draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on International Adoption, registration number 0014, is under consideration. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko from the committee. Because there's no one to report from the government. Please. Huh? Roman Mikhailovich ready? Be easy, please. Although there are other reporters here, there are already. Okay. The changes made will be reported by the representative of President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This is about Ukraine’s Act of Accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption. The law was passed by the President of Ukraine. The bottom line is this. Protecting children's rights is one of the priorities of the state and it is particularly important to regulate international legal cooperation in this area. One aspect of such cooperation is the creation of opportunities for interstate adoption when the child’s right to secure stable and harmonious living conditions cannot be effectively realized in his or her country of origin. With a view to ensuring cooperation between States and their competent authorities in the area of inter-State adoption, the Hague Conference on International Private Law has developed a Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Inter-State Adoption since 1993, with 69 countries participating today. The acquisition of validity for Ukraine of the Convention will allow the harmonization of adoption procedures with the participating States, create a clear and transparent system of safeguards aimed at preventing, selling or trading children, allowing full and reliable information about candidates in foster care and inter-State adoption, taking into account the child's highest interests and with respect for its fundamental rights. The convention includes obligations, both by the State of origin and by the host State, to monitor the adoption and observance of the rights of the child after adoption, to create conditions for better preparation for adoption candidates, to promote, adhere to, and speed up adoption procedures. As defined in the draft law, when joining the convention it is proposed to make statements to the following articles: 13, 22, 23, 25 and 28 conventions. The declaration to Article 13 of the Convention proposes that a central body be identified to perform the duties under this Convention. The government of the State Administration for the Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child is composed of the central executive body on family and youth issues. This is the State Department for the Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child. The application to article 22 of the convention aims to ensure the inability to participate in the process of inter - state adoption of children in Ukraine by those individuals and organizations who have not received appropriate powers under Ukrainian law. The declaration, in accordance with article 23, paragraph 2, of the Convention, suggests that the certification that adoption took place in accordance with the convention shall be carried out by the government body I referred to earlier. In view of the fact that article 23 of the convention establishes the obligation of treaty States to recognize adoptions that have been carried out in accordance with the convention, the declaration to article 25 of the convention proposes noting that Ukraine will not be obliged to recognize adoptions made on the basis of an agreement concluded by the treaty State of the convention. This is in line with article 39, paragraph 2, of the convention itself. With a view to taking into account and reflecting the provisions of Ukrainian national legislation, in particular article 225 of the Family Code, it is proposed that a child who lives in Ukraine may leave Ukraine only after the court’s decision to adopt it takes effect. The convention will help define the legal field for Ukraine's cooperation with the treaty states, ensure the creation of an additional channel of interaction, and guarantee recognition in the treaty states of Ukraine's adoption decisions. Dear National Deputies! Request to support the ratification of this convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u115	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, I also address you to Mikola Volodymyrovich. Maybe we could discuss both of these bills right now. Can we put them together? I mean, if you were to report now and then the two and the two and the discussion. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u116	There is no objection. That would make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u117	Do you agree? Please provide information, a report, and a second bill, and then ask questions and listen for two reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with section 7 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, if an international treaty is submitted for ratification, which requires the adoption of new or amendments to the existing laws of Ukraine, the draft laws are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the draft Law on Ratification, and are adopted at the same time. In connection with this regulatory requirement, the President of Ukraine has also introduced the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the accession to the above - mentioned convention. In particular, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Family Code, the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code, the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. In particular, amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code propose determining what activities are not considered to be a mediocre commercial activity in the adoption of children. It is imperative that such activities be accredited by specially authorized bodies or organizations in a designated Cabinet of Ministers, providing additional grounds for the abolition of adoption by decision of the court, namely, a violation by the adoptor of the obligation to provide the competent authorities with information about the adopted child and the possibility of communicating with the child. The adoption of the Hague Convention will allow the State to organize and take control of the adoption processes in which family representatives, translators and private notaries are now involved, and to minimize and eliminate the risks of commercial and criminal adoptions, corruption in this area. It is also proposed in the Family Code, in particular in article 283, that the predominant right to adopt a child, a Ukrainian citizen, has foreigners who are nationals of States with whom Ukraine has contracts or permanent residence for adoption. The project also proposes to abolish the minimum age of a child who may be adopted when a child has left or has refused to be taken from a maternity home or other health care facility by parents or other relatives. Such a change is proposed in part 1 of article 209 of the Family Codex. The proposal to shorten the family code set out in article 283 of the Ukrainian Family Code to the State Department of Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child, from which a child may be adopted by an alien, is based on the way in which children who may be adopted are treated, by persons who wish to adopt a child and by the exercise of supervision of the rights of children after adoption before being billed in the State Department. It's been at least three months. In view of this period of adoption, the child is deprived of family care for at least a year and a half by a legal court decision. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code make it mandatory for the prosecutor to take part in the adoption proceedings. The Criminal Code of Ukraine proposes that the President amend it, which establishes the responsibility for consenting to adopt parents, caregivers or other persons with beneficial motives, as well as for requiring consent to adopt and sanctioning this article for its actions by making appropriate changes to article 169 of the Code itself. Section 2 of the draft law proposes to establish a period of validity by this law from the date of its publication, and also to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that international adoption is determined on the basis of the Convention. The adoption of the law will allow for the creation of a mechanism for implementing the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Ukraine, as well as for ensuring the proper fulfilment of our State’s obligations under this international treaty. The implementation of these bills does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget, so let me also inform you that this bill itself is in line with a wide range of central authorities. This information, I think, is given to you, so given the above, it is also suggested that you approve of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u119	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Will there be questions? Is it? Please sign up. Yeah, let's do 10 minutes. Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u120	Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Following the adoption of the 1993 Convention, Ukrainian children were taken out of Ukraine in a mass way. And so on and so forth. We know what's going on in Lviv, Ternopol, Kharkiv, Kyiv and so on. That's my question. Who today can say where our children are Ukrainian? in what countries? How many are there? In whose hands did they fall? How do they grow up, how do they live? The second question. Who was responsible for the crimes of the Ukrainian officials? How many criminal cases have been committed? Because if we don't make this a transparent, open issue, then the unions will continue to work, they will continue to export illegally, but within our ratified convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. On November 1, 2006, there were 16 thousand 314 adopted children in the Consular Account. Most of them are in the United States, and there are six thousand 271 children. In Italy, four thousand 467 children in Spain, two thousand 410 children in France, 868 children in Israel, and 776 children in Israel. There are now over 26,000 children in the State Department for adoption, some 20,000 of whom may be adopted by foreigners in accordance with article 283 of the Ukrainian Family Code. We don't have any control over the state of these children who were or are our citizens and were adopted during the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u122	Jaroslav Suhi. Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u123	Ratification of this convention will create an international legal mechanism within the framework of the Hague Conference on Private Law, the international private law to establish such control and those States participating in this convention, and there are 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u124	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u125	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, you know, for our faction, the President's drafts marked "first turn" mean that we will definitely vote for them because we want to ensure peace, peace and stability in Ukraine. But please tell me, why are we talking about the fact that we, the first question, are joining the convention with some warnings? I want to do that analogy or something.: Remember, you and I ratified here, you were an MP then, a social charter with some warnings. Will it not be the same with warnings? And one more thing. Roman Mikhailovich, very important by procedure. As a lawyer, we can vote in favour of this convention without changes to legislation or parallel changes to legislation, Law 1068 and the Convention, so that it can be a solution to the problem in a complex and one-time manner without stretching out in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u126	Mr. Jaroslave, first of all, Ukraine is not making any warnings about the Convention itself. This procedure is not foreseen by this normative act. Instead, the convention foresees the need to make appropriate applications, according to the articles I have listed on the talk. In particular, what would be the central body that would deal with these issues that were raised in this convention? So according to the requirements of the Convention itself, Ukraine makes five or six of these applications, which I was just talking about. As for your second question, if you can be approved in the first reading and in general the accompanying law passed by the President of Ukraine, without which, according to the Constitution, we do not have the possibility, or should I say more faithfully, that the convention does not have the possibility of taking effect, the question will be removed. Although, of course, this procedure I'm going to allow myself to say, it needs a lot more clarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u127	Tarasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u128	Dear Roman Mihajlovich, please tell us why the bill is so persistently extended, I emphasize, the issue of trust, rather than notary, the right to adopt doctors?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u129	This is one of the, one of the observations of science and science. The one you're talking about. But I have to tell you that if the mother, the mother, left her child in the maternity home, she would hardly want to give a notary witness and spend the appropriate funds for this procedure, her consent to adopt. So it seems to me that the mechanism laid down in the law is precisely the result of maximizing the child’s right to parental care. And in fact, on the basis of this requirement, coming out of the rights of the child in this case, the President of Ukraine has just proposed the kind of edit you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u130	Please, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u131	Please give the word to a well-known humanist and protector of the children of Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u132	He'll be reporting. Please, Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u133	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, what am I worried about? In the report, I will express my point of view and view of the committee. The matter is extremely responsible. And after we take control and order in the area of adoption, particularly intergovernmental, we need extraordinary efforts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports. This document is accepted by nine ministries. And as far as I'm concerned, the government and our colleagues in the anti-crisis coalition still question the purpose of accepting such a document. What do you think if the government is not prepared to take on the burden of doing so, perhaps we should not rush into making that decision because no one will do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u134	Of course I can't speak for the government, but it seems to me that there is a clear need to provide such a legal mechanism of international control that will give us the opportunity in Ukraine, using the resources that are being provided by the Hague Conference of Private International Law, but still to ensure the accounting of those 16 plus thousands of children who are already adopted in different countries of the world, and perhaps also those 20,000 children who are already in charge today. If we don't do that, we're actually giving up the possibilities that this convention is giving up. It seems to me that there is an urgent need here to do just that, which, by the way, some Ukrainian national deputies have already talked about, including the majority coalition in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u135	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Eugene Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u137	Eugene, Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u138	Thank you. Eugene Filindash, faction of the Socialist Party. Please tell me, Roman Mikhailovich, what is the explanation that the draft law proposes to abolish the term after which adoption can be discussed. Now, as we know, it's a two-month term. And this is a normal norm, in our opinion, because quite often mothers, after a while after refusing, realize that they have done so, still want to take the baby. If we cancel that term, it means that literally on the second day, this child will be able to give someone away without giving the mother the opportunity to take the child away. That's the first one. And the second. Why is it suggested that the term be reduced from one year to six months, during which the child is on a special basis before giving them to foreigners? We will thus reduce our citizens' chances of adopting a child and increase the chances of taking foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u139	The final conclusion is that I am not entirely agreeable. Because our citizens still have the predominant right to adopt. It is provided under the Family Code. Instead, it is very clear that it contains standards that offer a clear consideration of matters in the courts. That is, a child can be exported outside our country only in the event of a court’s decision. These trials usually last much longer than two months. And during this very trial, the same mother you were talking about will have the opportunity to change her mind. Therefore, it is suggested that the time limit should be immediately adjusted to allow such trials to begin. Where does the president of Ukraine come from? Again, it comes out of that child’s right to parental care. If we can't guarantee it, then, of course, such a child's right will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u140	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich is appointed Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please, as agreed, two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very difficult situation that has arisen. If we don't understand the situation, it's going to be hard for us to go through legislation. What is happening today in the area of interstate adoption? For example, according to statistics in 2005, we had 2 thousand Ukrainian children adopted by foreigners, while Ukrainians had 1 thousand 419. This trend in recent years, where the ratio of about a thousand more interstate adoptions. What are the ways in which States can control intercountry adoption and the fate of children abroad? I say, virtually no, since there is no legislation, there is virtually no authority in the central executive branch, especially in the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports. The State Department of Adoption is trying to do something, but in fact it's operating in a totally illegal field because we didn't write this legal field. I'll tell you more. Ukraine has a shadow market for adoption of children. If you go in, you go to websites, you find English-language sites that don't exist in Ukraine, where you take pictures of a child, and where the price policy is between $20,000 and $50,000 for adoption. Of course, it's illegal, but it's an established system of relationships that a foreigner who wants to do adoption comes, he comes in, he's in Borispol, he's met by a man, and he's still taking him through appropriate institutions, where he pays properly, and in the end he's taking the child. Another problem. A child abroad. What opportunities do we have to control? It is only the goodwill and initiative of our ambassadors, embassies, who apparently have enough problems to drive around the country and find where the child is. What a real report today. Reporting, once a year, the adoptive parent provides information to Ukraine. Well, as you think, if this alien was adopted, what he's going to write, what that child's poor, he's writing information himself, means it's coming to us. So this is the situation that I've drawn today in the area of adoption. What to do. Of course, the ratification of the convention itself does not solve those problems, since it is clear that everything is in the process, the mechanism and the work of our institutions of power. What the President and the government are offering us. They propose that we approve ratification, approve the Hague Treaty and adopt a bill in the first reading, which amends the National Legislation in the part of the adoption and vote on the paragraph that our committee supports, mandatory that the convention takes effect only after the entry into force of our National Law on Amendments to the Legislative Acts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and the Cooperation of Inter-State Adoption. I want to go back to the ones Roman mentioned. There are two ways to my deep conviction. There is a warning of this bill, which is proposed in the first reading, and there is the position of many national MPs who say: “Let's not rush, we are not voting today, the draft in the first reading is being submitted for further work” – one way. That's an important way, but that means we're just folding our hands and saying that there's nothing we can do, and this shadow market is still working. There's another way. So we're voting ratification, in the last paragraph of the ratified convention, we're only going to see if it's effective after the adoption of our bill and between the first and the second readings. Maybe six months, I know, maybe three months, maybe a year, we're looking for tools in this law that would definitely guarantee NAC that we're going to make this procedure clear. The biggest warning is that we're legalizing public institutions that will be involved in adoption. We just have two alternatives. The first alternative is what it is today. The second alternative is to register authorized public institutions controlled by the Ministry of Interior, Foreign Affairs, Family, and Youth. There are no other alternatives. Problems with these public-authorized institutions may arise. But at least we understand who's doing this and who's to be asked. At the same time, the committee made the following decision. We're here to ratify the convention with this standard. But by voting on the bill in the first reading, it is imperative to record three of our serious warnings that we are willing to vote, members of the committee, only when these problems in our bill are settled in the second reading. First warning. We're against cancelling a term that could be adopted by a child who wasn't taken from the maternity home. The current standard of Ukrainian legislation stipulates that these are two months. At the suggestion, this is anticipated to be cancelled. So our position is to leave this rule to guarantee this two-month term. Second warning from the committee. Only under such conditions did the committee’s deputies agree to vote. We are opposed to a reduction from one year to six months of the child’s time in the adoption center. We feel the same way that this term is small -- six months -- in order to give our national adoptive parents the opportunity to adopt our citizens. Because the key is not to give children to Italy, to Portugal or to America, but to do so, to be fashionable and right to adopt children in Ukraine. And our third position. There was already a question. We are really afraid of the abuse of doctors and other institutions if we take the standard of notarized written consent of parents to adopt. We think this rule is in principle effective, and so we insist that the consent of parents be notarised, rather than giving this serious authority to doctors. Once again, in the current shadow schemes, unfortunately, doctors usually would if they were a coordinator in this system. They, too, receive bribes for speeding up the adoption process. So I'm not saying that the notary is all honest, well that's at least an insurance element for us, that we can re-examine what's going on. In general, if we vote, let's say today, this first-reading bill, we have to move on to what the President and the government are offering us. We need to review a number of other very serious standards of adoption. For example. My colleagues from “Our Ukraine”, BUTU, from the Party of Regions and Socialists, the five of us deputies, have introduced three norms that we think are quite obvious that take away many abuses. Let's say the first rule. Only a family, a family of foreigners, can be the adoptive father of a foreigner. We have a lot of unpleasant stories when a single man with an unforgivable life is taken into adoption, and then our Interpol and our representation are looking for that man with that child. Thus, only a married family. A second position that is likely to need to be discussed. It's more about national adoption, but to understand the problem that we don't really have it figured out, because no one has done it. Let's say it's age difference. We have a situation in some areas where, for example, older people at the age of seventy are taking healthy children from boarding school to work as shepherds there, workers there and someone else. Well, obviously they can't raise a child at the age of seventy, and they need it for some other purpose. So we suggest that when we have further work on the bill, we establish a position that the reproductive age of the child ends at 45 years of age -- that means that the age difference between the adopted child and the parents should be no more than 45 years old. Regarding the lower barrier. So experience testifies, and we feel that we need to raise from 18 to 21, because at the age of 18, it is obvious that if a family has only been created in them there is a chance, as it were, to think, to bring their children in, to prepare to be a family, and to make such a serious decision after adoption. We need to pick up a date by the age of 21. So what I'm saying is, unfortunately, the whole adoption procedure is almost outdated and unregulated. So once again, the position of the committee is that we are only willing to support it with two warnings. First. The convention takes effect after the adoption of the national law and the national law should have the rules that I have declared binding three standards that guarantee. abuses in the area of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u142	Will there be questions? You don't? Have a seat. Yes. Nina Ivanovna Karpachov Please, the microphone. And the rest of you, sign up. Five minutes. Please, Nina Ivanovna. Carpathian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u143	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich! You know it's a long-suffering document, an adoption convention. You know that very well as the Deputy Prime Minister who has taken care of humanitarian matters today as a national deputy. You probably know that this convention has not been ratified by many donor countries precisely on the basis that it's an additional mechanism for recipient countries to take our children into adoption, and it opens up an additional mechanism to make the abuse go away, and it opens up this road for these intermediate structures, which is what this convention is about. Ukraine has long been doing better than this convention in our national legislation. Including the center, Mr. Roman. The adoption center, which operates in our country. Tell me, has America ratified, which is the largest country in the adoption of Ukrainian orphans? More than 50 percent of all orphans adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u144	I understood the questions. As far as I don’t think I’m such a perfect adoption specialist, I use the documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministries of Family, Youth and Sports, the authorized structures that work. This Convention has been ratified by 69 countries, including three famous US countries, the Russian Federation, Ireland, but not ratified. And if you take it from the post-Radians space, ratified by Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Georgia. In fact, among the countries where our children are adopted, it is not just ratified in the United States. Ratified accordingly in Italy, Portugal, Spain, Germany, and so forth. In America, it's its position. Again, I don't have many reasons to explain very professionally why Americans are going a different way than ratification, but once again, to my profound belief, our legislation is imperfect. And the faster we make it perfect, the faster this today's shadow market is actually selling children we're going to control.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u145	Please, Alexander Tkachenko. Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u146	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I would like you to review your point of view on this issue, because you can see very well that in that bill, which we have been offered for consideration and adoption along with ratification, there are virtually all kinds of springs for our children's outflow. I'm asking everyone, and I'm talking to you about it, so let's just shake it up and not do it. In your time, please tell us, were you not interested in where our children, who in their time were taken and adopted from the Ternopil region, were created with specs on which the district government had accumulated funds for the international adoption of children? Were you interested in the fate of the lion doctors who sold our children? I mean, isn't that enough for you and me?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u147	Unfortunately, we sold children not only in Lviv and Ternopil areas but throughout Ukraine. And if we and I, as a national MP in the previous summons, have been addressing these abuses to the Attorney General's Office, and I think the Attorney General will probably tell you when the investigation is over, which is what it's all about, but they're just caught. Do you think there are no other areas? What, then, are those people who adopt, who don't take bribes? They don't cooperate with officials? I said that the bill before the first reading was imperfect. What's more, I said we were. Not only did he say he was imperfect, but he said at least three strict requirements to be accepted in the second reading, but once again I want to say, well Parliament has to decide for itself, let's say we start this work now, or let's say Parliament stops work, passes over to the government, and the government is working on a bill that's still going on. She says. It's our will. I think we should do it under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u148	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u149	Mikola Volodymyrovich, I have a question coming out of those ideological principles. I have always believed - conceptual, more faithful - that good law, let even imperfect law, but any law is better than lawlessness. Either I ratify or I don't ratify. If we are to stop international adoption, it is wrong. We need to get out of the interests of our little citizens and what our distinguished colleague Sameilik asked us about, we know about the consular supervision of our children, the little ones who are out there, we just have to through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs set up this control and have some specific data in Parliament. But please tell the ratification of Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children itself is positive for the future, that is, as head of the committee, you can predict the consequences. If we vote in favour of accession and if we don't vote in favour of accession, we don't have to look at any bill on emotion. What's more, it's about the fate of the children.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u150	I think that the optimal option is that our committee recommends that we vote only on the condition that ratification becomes effective after the adoption of our national law, because the general formulas of the Convention without a clear procedure of control mechanisms, which are not in the national law, can usually lead to undesirable results. So this formula that I understand is offered to us by the President and the government that the ratified Hague Convention is operating exclusively after the adoption of the national law as a whole, I think it's optimal. Once again, what we're protecting is we're protecting the situation. So I would just like to ask all the children's advocates to meet with the IMF, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Interpol, our representation. They risk Ukraine, they don't know where to look. If we have registered these authorized organizations, they know where to look for children. So I think, either we have the courage to take this step, or we just put it down and say, well, let the illegal market of children go on and we'll write letters to the DA's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u151	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, shall we be determined? Now, now. Pauline, please. Another committee was looking into it. Turn on the microphone, please. It was a human rights committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u152	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. On behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, the committee discussed the two bills at its meeting on July 25, 2006. During the discussion of the Committee members, it was stressed that it was not appropriate to join the said convention in view of the fact that its rules were largely not in line with the current Ukrainian legislation on the adoption of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In particular, according to the National Deputies, there are illegal activities in Ukraine specifically authorized by foreign states to provide adoption services, even if they are accredited by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Moreover, the proposed changes to existing legislation do not limit the authorization of these authorities and their activities in Ukraine and. Above all, the special concern of the committee members was article 32 of the convention, which provides for the collection and payment of or the receipt of reasonable professional fees by those who perform. [[in cages]] On the basis of what was said, the committee approved: recommending a bill to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Thus, we heard the thoughts of the committees to be considered. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism: Join the Convention on Child Protection and Cooperation on International Adoption, Registration No. 0014. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:03]] For-100 The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Block Timoshenko is 56, Our Ukraine is 44, Socialist Party, Communists, non-fractional is zero. So, ratification, we didn't join the convention. Is the law necessary to vote, and is it associated with the convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u154	Is it? Yes, I am voting for Bill No. 1068 “On the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with accession to the Convention”. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:31:00]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u155	We vote in favour, we don't refer to the Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u156	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u157	It is possible not to refer to the Convention, but to the law itself. Without reference to the Convention, to the drafting of a bill prepared by a committee. Nina Ivanovna, once again, without reference to the Convention. Please. [[13:31:42]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The draft Act is being considered under the second reading procedure: the amendment of the Ukraine Code of Land. [[concerning the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land]] Bevanenko Valeriy Fedorovich, head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u158	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, honored invitees. On October 3, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis. The committee received ten comments from legislators, including two, one, part, and seven. The text proposed by the committee is designed to take into account all the suggestions made by the national MPs in the first reading. Including the comments made by the National MP Przeżynov and the actor of the Tsushka Bill in the part of the sale of agricultural goods. The bill proposes to prohibit the sale by 1 January 2008 of land for agricultural and municipal property, as well as land for agricultural purposes owned by citizens and legal persons for commercial agricultural production. With regard to the adoption of specific legislation, namely, on the characteristics of the circulation of land in state and municipal property, on the specificities of the land of commercial agricultural production, on the State land cadastre, this is considered to be inappropriate by the committee because their adoption may lead to a conflict over the period of validity of the law. In addition, the list of bills proposed in the first reading does not correspond to the current situation, namely, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already adopted, in its first reading, bills on State land cadastre and land market, which regulates the specificity of the circulation of state and municipal property, as well as agricultural land. In the near future, the committee plans to take them up on second reading of the Supreme Council. In particular, I want to stop the exceptions proposed by this law, namely the transfer to an inheritance, the transfer to another land and the removal for social purposes. The proposed edition is, in our opinion, the most successful in terms of the arrangement of the mechanism of exchange in accordance with the Ukrainian law on how to allocate in kind in areas of land, landowners, pies, and others. The committee, at its meeting by majority, supported the proposed editorial work and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we're working on a second-reading project right now. So in such a sequence, questions are not asked here, questions will be asked by those who have made or will stand up for them. So let's move on with this procedure. Long and Tolstenk’s first proposal is taken into account, which says that by January 1, 2008, it is banned. Land rights, pie to statutory farm funds. It is taken into account and is consistent with the logic of this law. Is there a need to vote? Is there no objection? None. The second offer of Food is rejected. About the exception of 10 points. Food does not insist on its offer. So I now have a request to vote on Long's first amendment. And in the right column, so it's reflected. I'll bet the vote on the first amendment. Please support her. [[13:36:03]] For 237 Decision taken. The third adjustment of the crochet. It reads “edited”. I'm calling the reporter. It's not an editorial, it's a substantive clarification. Note that you have released in the phrase “buying sales or other means of alienating land owned by citizens and legal persons for the maintenance of goods. production.’ And they missed the words “change of purpose and transfer for gardening”. A change of destination means a sale permit. Because the target assignment is changing and the land area is flowing. Therefore, in view of the fact that we signed this in the contract, and because it is not editorial, but factual, I would suggest that I confirm the first reading proposal, that I leave the previous edition. And if anyone doubts, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who supports the amendment to the second reading of the Bible? No, it's not. In the second reading. The adjustment of the scratch shall be made to the vote. The adjustment of the scratch shall be made to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u160	It's a scratch. It's a scratch. [[13:37:22]] For-69
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u161	Thank you. So that leaves the first edition of the first reading. pmt Amendment four. I'll tell you what, I've got the left column. Because the amendment is not specified. It didn't go through. I'm asking you to do this. Is there a point to this? Please give it to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u162	Alexander Alexanderovich, our faction did not understand what the vote was about. It is a principle for us not to sell the land in the form of a change in use. It is necessary to either introduce a moratorium on everything or not to introduce a moratorium at all so that there is no underground shadow sale of land. So what would be the formula in the final edition?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u163	I realized that you understood correctly, but I will say it again. The point is that by 1 January 2008, there is no sale-for-sale or other way of alienating, or changing the target destination, transfer for the cultivation of land owned by citizens and legal persons for commercial agricultural production. And the proposal was to remove the change in the target destination and the transfer for gardening, which opened the way for the operations you were talking about. The fourth amendment does not raise objections? It doesn't. The Long Fifth Amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. Does he not insist on taking it fully into account? No, it's not. The sixth amendment is included in Cushka and Cushka. The amendment of the seventh Prasololova is also partially accounted for. The eighth amendment is partially taken into account; it does not insist on its consideration separately. The eighth amendment of Bebezenka included in part too. Partly included is the amendment of the tenth of Tolstenka, and so basically all the amendments are counted and we can vote in the entire document as. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Huh? I'm going to put it all together because that's what this is. Please! I am. Please. Under the second reading procedure, I put this draft to a vote, bearing in mind that 15 articles are voted in the first reading. In the edition of the first reading, which was accepted by the Supreme Council. I see. I'll put it to the vote again. Why don't we vote? You haven't figured out what I'm suggesting. I repeat, be careful, the draft law is voted on as a whole, bearing in mind that the 15th paragraph, since the amendment did not go through, 69 votes, is being voted in the first reading. There's only one point at 15!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u164	Talk to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u165	The honourable deputies, defined in article 15, adopted in the first reading, are determined that we should vote for the moratorium and accept the land for sale as of January 1, 2008, subject to the adoption of a series of laws. Namely against this committee, and what laws? The laws that are proposed today do not correspond to reality. Therefore, we gave the same editorial that Tsuko proposed only minus those laws that are imposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u166	Please sign in for five minutes of motivation. With a motive, please. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u167	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”. I would like to give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u168	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u169	Thank you very much. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The land market is one of the most painful issues that has been the subject of negotiations in the establishment of a coalition, one of the most painful issues today, perhaps not only those living in the village, but also those living in the country today. We have taken a clear and clear position. To date, the land market can only be introduced once we have resolved all the issues associated with it, when laws have been adopted that will facilitate the creation of a land inventory when laws have been laid down that will write out the land market when the land assessment mechanism is established. Only then can the structure of land sales be introduced, so to speak. Otherwise we'll throw the country into chaos. Our faction will vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u170	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we should not forget that the market exists now, but it is black and dark. For this reason, please pass on the word Tomenko, who knows the earth’s market very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I want us to talk about real things. So what is the system of abuse in the earth’s market today? Why don't you go to the Kyiv area? How is this done? The boundaries of villages, villages, cities are changing. This translates, changes the purpose of the earth, and then read in Kiev’s newspapers how much this land costs. Take away bribes that are paid to appropriate local councils, such as wages, and many present here. The other one. The pool of rations is being transferred to the farm and the land is being privatized directly. Our position is very simple, Alexandre Alexandrovich, here for the second reading, the correct standard was prepared. It's just someone filmed it at night, like they always do. We insist on norms until the adoption of a law that regulates the order of change in targeted use is prohibited from changing targeted land use.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u173	Poor guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u174	Skudar, “Ukraine’s Regions”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you feel that the vast majority of deputies simply do not represent the subject of conversation, which was on the first reading, which is proposed for second reading. Not to vote, but it's a matter of land. It's a matter of life, but let's say, our State. But this law cannot be considered in such an environment when someone tries to propose his own vision of an article that is not recorded in any way. I ask you to give the floor to the people's deputy Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u175	Please. You either speak for yourself, or you pass on the right to a voice, you can't do that. I'm dusting you, Matthew's talking. 20 seconds, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down first. First of all, let us read even the title of the bill that we are considering today. To amend the Land Code to prohibit the sale of agricultural land prior to the adoption of the relevant legislation. What's going on? What did the profile committee propose? Without the proposals of the National Deputies for second reading, he took and ruled out the requirement of this law on the adoption of appropriate legislative acts so that we could decide whether or not to resolve the issue of land sales. It can't be like that. We've never had practice in Parliament. Therefore, dear friends, it should be an editorial to remain the first to read. The committee has no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u177	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u178	I ask you to pass the word to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u179	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I believe that Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz's proposal is correct, and I have further explained to Valentin Grigoryevich Matveev that the Committee itself has no right to exclude any provisions of the law voted on first reading, unless there are any relevant amendments to the people's MPs. And pay attention, please. This is the way in which we draw, i.e., the amendments voted in the room, plus the 15 articles in the first reading, are fully consistent with the title of the law and, most importantly, solves the problems that exist today, indeed, in land use. It does not allow the land to be lawfully segregated by any mechanism. Therefore, I believe that the proposal of Frost is correct, and we must vote in second reading for that option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u180	I'm going to use the chairman's right in this case, because the reasoning is already being expressed. By creating a coalition, both one and the other, the issue of the earth was discussed separately, and an editorial was proposed. It's in the second column today, it's in the first reading. There, regarding the 15th article on the Final Provisions. It predicts that we are imposing a moratorium on the adoption of laws and that we are obliged to prepare these laws on the characteristics of land circulation in state and municipal property, on the characteristics of land circulation in agriculture, on the cadastral of land and other documents. If we remove that, we essentially open up the black market by changing the destination of the land and then put the dot on the land issue. You can't let that happen. In no way can this be allowed. I'd ask you, Mikhail Vasilovich, to think about what I'm saying. And since it's written in Universal, in the second column here, in the Coalition Agreement, we have to vote it, and let's not risk our cooperation in this respect. This is a key issue for government construction. Further, we need to focus on the preparation of the laws that I spoke about and the other ones in this document. It's about that. That we take into account the amendment concerning the 14th article, the second amendment of Food and so forth in the edition with which you are familiar, and the 15th article is voted in the second column, the edition adopted in the first reading, because the amendment that was introduced to amend this article did not receive the necessary support of the deputies. [[Long, Tolstenko introduced it]] So, given the circumstances, I'd like to place, under your permission, the entire draft law, and I'm asking you to support it. Once again, in the second reading, as a whole, the draft law, which amended the 14th Amendment, the first Long Amendment, and the 15th Article of the Final Provisions, are voted on in the second column, which is given to you. Please vote for this proposal. Why don't you vote? Take down the vote. Take your seat, for I will make it clear to you, for if you can understand how you came in without taking this law. I'll explain again, please! Now I'm going to give you an explanation and you'll see what's going on. Dear colleagues, MPs, the law in its articles did not raise objections to the editorial that the initiators had introduced. It fully meets the Universal, fully meets the Coalition Agreement and fully responds to the problems that today arise with regard to land relations. In the “Ending Positions” there was a change in the form of an editorial that changed the essence of this law, that is, a relationship. the purpose of the earth or the change, the change of purpose was not taken into account as an operation that was neither allowed nor possible, for it was actually a hidden sale of land. So my proposal is that we're voting in the entire law, and in the Final Positions, paragraph 14 is voted out, as Long, Tolstenko suggested, it didn't raise objections, and paragraph 15 is left in the line of the second column, which is adopted in the first reading. Which does not allow what I have just talked about, and provides for the adoption of the necessary laws to regulate land relations. What's not clear? Is there a question for me? No questions asked. Do you have a question for me? Please give the Turk's word again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I address all deputies from all factions. The issue of land is the most important question for Ukraine, it's a strategic issue for our state. And, Alexander Alexander, I address you. It's very hard, you know, it's not about metallurgy, we're voting here, we're talking about. I'm asking that we don't have any problems so that we don't have to start a scandal when the committee edits the final version of the law. Let's re-read the second reading, the final version you're talking about, then. We don't see it in the table, do you understand? You can't do that either. Then they'll tell us that's not what we meant. You don't have to. We need to re-read the second reading and write these questions clearly and clearly. We've got nowhere to go. Let's do this tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Otherwise we will now vote in favour of a law for which we will generally be ashamed to look into the eyes of peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u182	I answer to Alexander Valentinovich and all of you, dear colleagues. You have a comparative table on your hands, I'm referring to it, here it is, look. If you have doubts about the violation of the procedure, you are wrong, for I have followed it fully. However, I can put to the vote a committee proposal. [[in right column]] You can express your attitude by voting. Support or do not support. If you don't support it, then there's a column that was on the first reading. I think it's the right offer. Again. I'm asking you again. In accordance with the procedure, I put the right column as a whole -- this is a committee proposal -- on the vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:55:29]] For a hundred and This proposal received 192 votes. So it doesn't go through. And then there's the first reading on the 15th point, actually, and the 14th point of these changes. I understand that the question was of great interest to everyone. That's why I'm asking, given this vote. I'm asking for your attention! Please take your seat, don't disturb, I can't hear myself! Alexander Valentinovich, please sit down. With this vote taken into account for tomorrow, prepare the draft law for re-reading, taking into account this vote that has already been carried out. Please vote on this proposal. Please. [[13:56:45]] For 316 316 votes in favour. I ask the Committee on Land Relations: Please do not allow any more changes to the logic of the document when working on the document until the second reading. This is not allowed to be done according to the rules. I continue for 15 minutes because the draft Law amending article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is being considered in the second reading. [[on the pension of government officials recognized by persons with disabilities]] Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u183	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government on November 1, 2006, discussed at its meeting proposals for a second reading of the draft Act amending article 37 of the Law on State Service. [[on the pension of government officials recognized by persons with disabilities]] I'll remind you that's the point of correction. As introduced by Suškević and Volonec, another 29.06. In 2006 and October 03, 2006, adopted by the Supreme Council on the basis that the civil servants were entitled to a civil servant's pension, whether they received the disability during the service or were admitted to public service by persons with disabilities. The members of the committee unanimously supported all the proposals sent to this bill, which were generally technical and legal in nature and brought the law into force in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on the draft bill. The committee concluded that it recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I propose to vote on the amendments and the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u184	Please, by the second reading procedure, all the comments or suggestions made by the deputies here, Bondar was mostly working on it by Olga Borisovna. They're all accounted for, and there's no comment on that. In fact, I can put this proposal to the vote -- the adoption of the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? I'm asking you, this is not the first reading procedure. A second reading examines the law. I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u185	A request for support. [[14:00:07]] For 325 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Planning and Construction of Areas. I said second reading. We're about to finish, and we've got 15 minutes. Polacko Vladimir Avrumovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u186	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Not long ago, I had the privilege of reporting to the Supreme Council the basic principles of this law. After that time, there were meetings in factions, and I think we found an understanding. There were notes to the law on information about analogous built objects. The committee agrees that this is not in the documents. And a negative complex conclusion. I want to say that it is essential for those rakes that we have set foot on the Elite Centre to be less in Ukraine. I have already reported that fortunately, "Elita-Centre" was after what happened in Russia, Kazakhstan and Lithuania. There's tens, hundreds of thousands. And when we consulted our colleagues in Kazakhstan, Lithuania and Russia, in 2005-2006, when these preconditions were adopted in law, there are no cases that were before that. One day our countryman, the governor of the Moscow region of Gromov, interviewed and said that in 2005 there were no claims and that 8,000 50 so-called elites would be finished with them in 2009-2010. So I would like to support the committee and adopt this law that I reported a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, most of the proposals are included in this law. The third amendment of Serbia was rejected. Is he insisting on her? Don't insist. The sixth amendment was also rejected, since it was essentially about editing, not content. And I don't think the Soviet MP here is going to insist on her. Don't insist. The rest are counted either partially, or editorially, or completely. What Will Be the Reasoning? Can we put it to a vote as a whole? I put this law as a law to the vote as a whole. Please, as amended by the committee, put the vote to the vote. [[14:03:34]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. The break is announced by 16:00.
