ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, invitees, guests of the Supreme Council, radio and television. We have Thursday, October 5. Deputies, please prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:17]] There are 431 deputies present, and the morning session is open. Traditionally, I'd like to say hello to Dard Alexander Panasovich's birthday. And today, two Jubilee – Jeresh Igor Hennadiovich, who is 50 years old, is not an age at all, so you might not think that this event is extraordinary, because it is not a year old. [[Congrats]] And in Sinchenka, Sergey Grigorovitch is also 60 years old. [[Congrats]] Sergey Grigorovitch, nobody's happy about it, but he can live, so you worry, he's fine. It's okay. The procedure defined by the Rules is clear. Why? What's the need? Well, please. They claim to do or. For the statement, please interrupt for half an hour. Give Sasu a word of procedure. Don't break the microphone, Deputy Sass. You'll get a signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I ask you to comply with the second paragraph of the first article of the 27th Rules and to inform who is absent from the plenary for important reasons. If there are, block their cards for the 84th article of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u3	I'm in charge of the technical service. Please specify, since I did not do the analysis in person. This does not involve me in my duties. Please specify and then provide such information. The “Our Ukraine” faction and the BUT faction ask for a break of 30 minutes. If that's for consultation, one thing, if that's for the application, then make that statement. Okay, well, take a break, and we'll wait for you to consult. A break of 30 minutes is announced. At 10:30 a.m., the meeting will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u4	The faction consulted on the substance of the matter that they were interested in and wanted to make their views known to all deputies. Ask Julia Timoshenko to do this, please. Are you going to speak from your seat or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u5	Julia Timoshenko. Good afternoon. Dear friends, now the Supreme Council is preparing to consider repealing the bill, which was adopted by 340 votes in parliament, on introducing a moratorium on housing and utility tariffs. The Hall cast 340 votes against the President's veto. This law, which had to be passed by the Moroz to the President and signed, had to stop the spontaneous, totally unfounded, unmotivated rise in housing and utility prices. Unfortunately, after voting on the bill, Alexander Moroz refused, violating the Constitution, to pass the passed Law on to the President. And that means that today, tens of millions of people who have been waiting for this law on the introduction of a moratorium on housing and utility services to price increases to be signed, today they have received such a decision from Parliament that virtually deprives them of any hope. And I can say that when we have such liberals here, intellectuals talk about not being able to introduce moratoriums on higher rates for residential services, I want to explain separately for such people, and just a little bit to fill in their professional knowledge. If we don't stop now the spontaneous unwarranted rise in housing-communal prices, most people in Ukraine won't be able to pay the cost of housing-communal services. Because today a two - room apartment, utilities, will cost 400 dollars. People will have to choose between utilities and food to buy. If people can't pay these tariffs, we're going to have a crisis of non-payments for tariffs that we've been through around 1995, 1996, 1997. What does that mean? This means that all the enterprises that provide electricity, gas, heat, water will be transformed by the inability of the population to pay for these tariffs, virtually in bankruptcy companies. And that means we're just going to have a financial collapse in the state. And that means that those companies in the fuel-energy complex and housing-communal economy through shadow schemes, through the bankruptcy procedures in the shadows, will be privatized. I want to ask, why do I have to cause this financial collapse in the country? We need to work on a completely different technology. And it's the moratorium that gives the government two or three months to find a plan to overcome this crisis, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u6	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yesterday we held a Parliamentary meeting, discussed the Cabinet of Ministers' information, which was in that sense, and it was well-kept. The measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers relate to this problem. I mean, twice in the last five years, Parliament has made a similar decision, and twice in reference to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has made a commitment not to comply with these laws because they are unconstitutional. Hence, by fully sharing the concern expressed by Julia Volodymyrna, we are nevertheless obliged to consider a draft law on this subject, which is also fully in line with the procedure laid down in the Rules. Thus, under the reduced procedure, as provided for in article 48 of the Rules, the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on moratoriums on price increases and tariffs is being considered. Report to Zaplatinski from the profile committee. Then the co-report will be made by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so it is written down for me, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich Plastinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u7	Dear Mr. President, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, on 19 January 2006, the Law of Ukraine on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs on housing and utility services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services was adopted, after which the President exercised the veto. On March 15, 2006, the law was re-adopted, taking into account the President's proposals, but on April 6, 2006, the President reinstated the veto and returned the law with proposals for its rejection. On the Economic Policy Committee, after careful consideration of the President's proposals and understanding that setting tariffs on residential services at a level lower than that of economically sound production costs, entails the obligation to compensate local producers for the difference between the approved tariff size and the economically sound cost of producing these services. It was decided to agree with the President's arguments and to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Raising Prices and Tariffs for Housing Services and Consumption of Natural Gas and Electricity, Public Transport Services, as opposed to articles 85 and 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine and does not comply with the Laws on Prices and Prices and on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. It should also be noted that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has provided a justification for the inability to provide the necessary costs from the State Budget for the current year and the following years to ensure compensation for the moratorium. Thus, in view of the inadequacy of the law with existing legislation, supporting the President’s proposals and understanding the impossibility of using the adopted Ukrainian Law “On moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs on housing services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, ” it is suggested that the decision of September 22, 2006 on the adoption of the Act be repealed. [[except taxi]] The present decision entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers with studying the issue of economic justification for tariff increases, developing a mechanism to protect low-security population levels and to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a timely manner, I stress, by November 1st of this year, normative acts on the state-level regulation of the prices of the marginal standards for the profitability of natural monopolies, trade allowances and price controls. So I ask you, your fellow national MPs, to support the draft decision and to accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u8	Is there a question? There's no question, sign up. It's a simplified procedure, but it's still a very important question. Five minutes, please take off. Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u9	Please give the floor to National Deputy Hari Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u11	You at the committee meeting, I understand, have dealt with this very objectively. And yesterday and today, there are a lot of speculations about this law. And it's said that if we don't cancel the veto today, then we'll be fine. If we cancel, the population will suffer too much. In the Committee's view, if we do not today overcome those obstacles that we are trying to put before us when the earlier decision is over, what will happen? What better way to leave, because there is, or still make a decision, is to cancel the decision that we have made before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. At a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy on the subject, like everyone else, it was purely economical, not paying attention to populism, a variety of party approaches. I mean, it's a clean economy. Thus, according to article 142 of the Ukrainian Constitution: “The State participates in the formation of local self-government budgets. The expenditure incurred by local self-government bodies arising from decisions taken by public authorities shall be compensated by the State.” If we comment on this article, this indicates that, without repealing this decision today, we are forced to make compensation by the end of the year at the date of the adoption of the Act of 4.22 billion grivens, from the date of the adoption of the 22nd number of September to the new year of the additional 1.7 billion grivens and for the following year about 7.1 billion grivens from local budgets. Under article 142 of the Constitution, the State budget should then compensate local budgets for these costs. This will lead to a full budget execution, a complete impoverishment of local budgets and a complete failure to address any other issues at the local level. This is not a cost-effective approach, and the committee by majority has taken such a decision to support the President's proposals. With respect to Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenka, he twice promised this Law. With respect to the President's proposals for annulment. That was the basis of the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u13	Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Deputy Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u16	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we must always get to the root causes. The Committee has analysed the overall increase in the price of gas as a result of the increase in tariffs. When gas users in Ukraine became more profitable than selling gas to the population, they sold it to industries. Did the Committee draw conclusions from this why it all happened? Because it is not the economic reasons why the Supreme Council has had to impose a moratorium and thus force the Government to make decisions quickly, we will again face private cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. The Committee, from an economic point of view, examined the economy in detail. Yes, for today the needs of the population are slightly higher than 19 billion. Cubometers of gas, Ukraine's own production of more than 20 billion That is, yesterday, in the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kluev Andrej Petrović, very interesting figures were presented, after the Committee on Economic Policy with the Ministry of Economic Affairs had examined the situation in detail and made proposals. Our proposals have been heard by the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, I would like to inform you that only yesterday from this rostrum did the Government's request to consider 50 plus 1 action to hold meetings, i.e. the change in the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. And yesterday, the committee adopted a draft of this bill, a draft of this law, and would recommend a room to regulate the supply of gas, what you asked, to the Ukrainian market at prices acceptable to the consumer. And so yesterday we heard from this rostrum that there would be a differentiated approach, people who don't have the ability to pay that kind of money, they would pay smaller tariffs, middle class -- medium people and vice versa -- rich people. I mean, this is what the committee has done in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The regulatory committee referred to Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Rules 4 October 2006 discussed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and on the use of natural gas and electricity, as well as public transport services other than taxis, at its meeting on 4 October 2006 at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 22, 2006, did not take into account the President’s proposals and that the articles of law were violated and the Supreme Council overcame the veto. The President's proposal was neither supported nor supported by the Supreme Council. And the veto of the President of Ukraine was voted on by the majority. However, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is not empowered to establish and modify prices and tariffs that have already been examined by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Above all, honourable MPs, violated 142 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which, according to the speaker in front of me, the author of the project, we did not intervene in our own affairs. Therefore, by overcoming the President’s veto and adopting a re-established law on September 22, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine went beyond its constitutional powers. In view of the violation of articles 85 and 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine during the consideration of this law, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of March 2, 1999 and of February 10, 2000, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return to the matter and cancel the decision taken on September 22, 2000 and today take such a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u20	Please sit down, thank you. It's not a rule, it's not in the Rules, read carefully. Short-term procedure. Who wants to make a statement? Two in, two in. Who's in? Sign up. Onichuk, Lukyanenko If they're in favour, they're in favor, if they don't. For the draft decrees. Once again, I'll explain to you the case. I'm asking you again, you don't have to. Two for and two for this decision. Please, if you're going to perform in such a sequence, I'm going to urge you to speak as they are. Who is against this determination. Zlatick and Zurko. Please take the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I see that this is not how the "Council" system worked, and I am addressing them. You made a traditional record, or you wrote the factions first, and then you recorded it from the MPs. Since the 48th article discusses this issue with a reduced procedure, we have to rewrote independently of the faction. First, it is recorded irrespective of the faction that the decision is taken, and then the first two will act, and then the first two will act against the decision, and the two will act against it. I mean, we have to rewrote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u22	Since our technical service did not take this into account, we're closing this definition in a new way. Please take your records off and I'll explain again. For support of such a decision, write two men and two men against each other. Who's in? Here comes the recording. “For” will be by Hara, Kunchenko. Who's against it? Yavorowski and Bodnar, please. Just as it's correctly written. It's MPs, not factions. Hara and who else? I've already announced Hara. No, that's where Kunchenko's book is, to make a deal with him. Hara, Kunchenko and Yavorowski, Bodnar Please, Hara. Simonenko. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I would like to state the position of our faction and draw your attention to what preceded the adoption of this law. First. The failure of the 2006 budget, which was prepared by the orange team, has placed Ukraine as a whole on the brink of disaster. And you remember that because of the failure of negotiations with the Russian Federation, all our Ukrainian citizens were horribly expecting Ukraine to be shut off from gas supplies on a new night. Next. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was the failure of the orange Government and the preparation of the budget that led to the cost of the budget being $50 per thousand cubic metres of gas and the price being $95. Thus today, the budget for orange teams is not implemented because of the lack of objective indicators. Second. For nine months, we, the Supreme Council and the Communist faction, have been fighting against the President of Ukraine, who, since January of this year, has refused to support and protect his constituents, because he refused to sign this law in January, which would then allow tariff growth to be limited, because it was a task. Since 1 May and 1 September of this year, the orange Government of Echanurov has raised tariffs, and we have actually faced the challenge of not restricting tariffs today, but of actually reducing tariffs, as we heard from the Government yesterday. Third. The purpose of the Moratorium Act. Force the gas pricing of domestic and imported gas to be dealt with by NAC Naftegaz Ukraine with its crimes, remove all intermediaries working on gas, first of all continue negotiations with the Russian Federation, pay their debts, delete what is involved in the payment of fares. Next. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers today opens the way for all levels of boards to establish tariffs on the ground. And the last. I want the last sentence. The price today is $95.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u24	Have a seat, please. One phrase, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u25	Next. The budget's broken. Conclusion. I believe that it is necessary to hear from the Government again today what was said yesterday as a assurance that real policies will reduce tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stepan's bubble from the socialists is coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u27	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, on August 10, the Poltava District Council voted in favour of an absolute majority of votes, 81 percent of the deputies present. In doing so, almost 100% of the representatives of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, the Party of Regions, “Our Ukraine” and agrarians, part of the Socialists and Communists voted. I ask those screamers, do you think your colleagues, our colleagues at lower levels, love the people less than you do? No! No! No! No! But they're responsible for their decisions, because when you're in charge of the Communal Tariffs Act, the Supreme Council determined that for their inadequacy the budgets of the local levels should pay, this grant should be done, then you knew what you were doing. And so I'm saying, here's one of the letters in front of me just, writes the director of the district utility Lubnitocunnergo. As a result of the rise in prices for natural gas and electricity, more than five million dollars are now needed for a moratorium on corporate tariffs. At the same time, the debt owed to the “Gaz of Ukraine” is a million six hundred thousand dollars and so on. In the event of default, natural gas will not be supplied to the boiler. And this is the day before the hot season. I understand that opposition is better for them if it gets worse, because it gives them a chance to come to power. But I am addressing the entire responsible part of Parliament. Come on. We made a mistake, let's fix it, and we won't be populists, because we're responsible for the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u28	Thank you. I ask you to listen very carefully to each other. And I'm talking. Calm down, please! I don't call those who shout names: you were with Stephen Bulbo in one faction, under known circumstances, you went from this faction to another, all known circumstances, but we're not talking about them. Now you're screaming from the place “Damn!” and so on. Shut up! Shut up, listen, take the word, say your opinion. Yavorowski, who are you passing on? A Turk? From Yavorowski's place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u30	Wait, Yavorowski speaks, not you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u31	I give the word to the Turk because I am very strongly opposed to this decision, and he will say much softer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u32	Okay, well, let's appreciate your tolerance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Moratorium on raising tariffs, which gave our citizens the chance to survive this winter. At the same time, today, the Supreme Council, violating the Constitution, breaking the Rules, is trying to reverse its own decision. I would like to draw attention to this situation: neither in the report of Plastinski nor in the report of Kiselov has there been any regulatory violation that occurred during this vote. And according to article 49, only normative regulatory violations can be the basis for the Supreme Council to change its own decision. So today, everyone who votes is crossing the rules of the Supreme Council, he's crossing the Constitution, and, above all, he's crossing the hope of all our citizens. I am very surprised at the speeches of both Communists and socialists today. They begin to explain their betrayal to the voters who were expecting them, and for the first time, they voted in favour of this law. And today they tell you why they betray their citizens. As far as “Regions” is concerned, everything is clear with them. So I'd like to draw your attention, honourable national MPs who are talking about some constitutional violations there, some decision of the Constitutional Court. You believe that this law is unconstitutional, please refer to the Constitutional Court, refer to the judicial authorities, and only in these circumstances can they make a decision. The rightful Supreme Council was whether to make decisions to save citizens or not. But I want to tell you this: there is a constitutional right for citizens to live. And I ask you not to take this right away from our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u34	Olga Borisovna Bondar has the floor. Please. Please, yes, turn on Olga Borisovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u35	Please pass on the word to Onischuku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u36	Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u37	The honourable head, honourable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, political content, and economic consequences of today’s decision have already been fulfilled. I'm going to pause for two very brief moments, which is why we can't make a legal decision today. First, it should be borne in mind that the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 91, says that all acts of the Supreme Council are accepted by a majority of its constitutional composition, except in cases provided for in the Constitution. The next article, in particular, article 94, tells us that the President's veto, and actually, that you and I know very well, is only by a qualified majority of parliament, that is, not less than 300 votes. And that means that a decision of a parliament that is made by a qualified majority cannot be overturned in any other way than by its adoption. For lawyers, for those who know the law, it's a completely familiar thing. Because if we let this happen, it would mean that every veto that is strong tomorrow, with so-called procedural motives, can only cancel the parliamentary majority. I don't think it's the right approach, in principle, and more than that, I'm going to say it's not constitutional. The second situation, the honourable colleagues, we obviously wanted to hear from the regulatory committee today, he had to say, what was the breach of procedure? Since the Rules of the Supreme Council only provide for one reason to review a decision that has not yet been legally enforceable on the issue of breach of procedure, not the content, not the conformity of the Constitution, not the relevance of a violation of the procedure. Moreover, the Rules of Procedure should have indicated exactly what the chairman was violating, and what procedure had been violated during the vote. This was not done. Therefore, unfortunately, our decision today will not produce legal consequences, and perhaps the Constitutional Court, or even the courts of general jurisdiction, will not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u38	Thank you. We had a discussion. Don't worry, wait. Please, calm down. I am obliged to sum up this discussion. And I am pleased that the deputies who opposed me have confirmed that, in clear compliance with the Rules, a preliminary decision has been made and all that is being done so far is also in line with the rules. However, given that we will not engage in discussion under article 48 of the Rules in order to keep people’s heads from getting caught up in our knowledge, our knowledge of the Rules. There is a conclusion of the Regulatory Committee, which comes to the conclusion that he proposes to cancel the decision. I would just like to explain to the electorate, to the electorate yours and ours, that the adoption of the Law on the Moratorium will in no way help them in any matter. Because there are two conclusions of the Constitutional Court that prevent such a decision from being made, to intervene in the functions of the local authorities. And only the specific actions reported yesterday by the Cabinet of Ministers can help, and for that reason we have invited the first Vice-Prime Minister to answer these questions so that he can express his opinion on this. Please, Klavov Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u39	Honourable People's Deputies, respected by Alexander Alexandrovich. We're very good. We have worked very hard on this issue. And since August, it's been done, an interdepartmental balance sheet committee has been set up, and the prime minister has set up the main task of lowering housing and utility tariffs for the population. After the committee was working on it, we came to a conclusion. I had answered a lot of questions yesterday, and you may have seen a lot of talk on television on this subject. So what are the conclusions? First, it's proposed that the price of natural gas be reduced by 75 dollars, which is used by the population, except for heating. It's going to be 339 dollars. In order to protect the most vulnerable populations, we propose to introduce a differentiation of natural gas prices, which is used by the population to heat up depending on the extent to which it is consumed, which is from heating up the square meters of housing where there are no counters. Families who consume up to 3 and a half thousand cubes a year, up to 100 square feet [100 sq m], are offered to lower the price of gas by 20%. Users who consume up to 9,000 cubic metres per year, ranging from 100 to 200 square meters, are offered to leave at 339 rubles. We have 2.7 million of these families. Those who consume up to 12,000 cubic metres per year will receive between 200 and 400 square meters of gas 73% higher than 339 grams. And the last. For those who consume more than 12,000 cubes per year, it's over 400 square meters, the price goes up more than twice. We have about 40,000 of these families. So we can protect low-security population categories. And we're offering you this is a principled approach. Such approaches will also be offered and implemented in both electricity and water supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Please. The Supreme Council's draft regulation, registration number 0823-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a moratorium on price increases and tariffs is a vote. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:08:46]] For 249 Decision taken. We've voted the verdict, please. The factions? Please, by the factions. I'll make an announcement. Region Party – 184, “Blok Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine” – 3, “SPU – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Please. Your Honor, please. During the discussion of the reduced procedure, we complied with all the rules laid down in the Rules. If we speak of additions, we vote on a separate decree. We should have been speaking, talking, not going back to that question. Rather than question, we consider the procedure provided for by our rules regarding the taking of an oath. Is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko and the minister of justice? Didn't he get a warning? Are they abroad? Then the question is taken off. If they appear, they will take the oath later. The draft Decision on the release of Baloga Viktor Ivanovich from the post of Minister of Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is under consideration. You have a draft decision on your hands. You know that Victor Ivanovich Baloga is now head of the Secretariat of the President's Administration. He wrote an appropriate statement, there's a proposal for an appropriate content from the Cabinet of Ministers, I don't think there's any problem or need to discuss this issue. That's why I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release Baloga from the post of Minister for Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The point is to release Balou Viktor Ivanovich from his post as minister of Ukraine for emergencies and for the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, according to the statement. I'm betting on this ruling, please be sure. [[11:11:44]] For three hundred Decision taken. I'm sorry, I didn't announce-- it's a mistake, it's a missing person. There's information about what's sick today -- Fesenko, Korsakov, Kaletnik, Rimaruk, Petrosov, and they're in the shipping business, and there's a part of them here, though they're in the shipping business -- Illashov, School, Headmaster, Remembrance, Richterov -- she's in the hall, Bondarenko, Clovis Sergey is in attendance. Pisarenko, Feldman, Yanukovic, Popescu, Šibko, Bilozer, Yankovsky, Gnatenko, Trinduk I said that Richter and Kluev are sitting in the hall. Please take advantage of this information. Draft Decision on the release of the Chief Controller of the Accounts Chamber. This is about the release of Andrija Petrovich Ziper, chief controller, in connection with the completion of the term of office. Is there a need to discuss the matter? This procedure is provided for by law. I'm voting on the Bill of Order on the release of Andrew Petrovich Zipper from office. The draft regulation 2246 is being voted on. [[11:13:31]] For 292 Decision taken. I do not vote on the appointment of the Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors, since the faction has not yet met with the claimant, and before considering the matter, I have made a suggestion not to put him on the stand until the details have been clarified. However, this procedure provides for a secret ballot, and I take this position into account, and I propose that the Court of Auditors organize such meetings. Draft Decision to terminate the mandate of Ukraine’s People’s Deputy Onopenka V.V. There is a statement made by Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka, who, by the way, before his election as Head of the Supreme Court. We have a situation today, when this fact has already taken place, that Vasil Vasilovich has been elected Head of the Supreme Court and we can welcome him all together, because it is trust, including to the deputy, to the professional. But we must stop his mandate, suspend the mandate of the People's Deputy in a timely manner, by referring to the rules of the Constitution, and thereby open the way to becoming a deputy to another representative of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. Decree No. 2215. [[11:15:17]] For 398 Decision taken. Similarly, the draft decree on the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Prutnik is being considered under the same circumstances: we elected him to an appropriate position – the Head of the Television and Radio Committee. He wrote an application for an immediate suspension of the MP’s powers. Order No. 2273 and I'm voting this order. Please be supportive. [[11:16:02]] For 376 Yeah. Decision taken. And there is a statement by Kostujeva Alexiyyyovich, who also has not been released from the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, but who cannot be reconciled with the parliamentary powers and who has written a statement in his own time, more faithfully, at the right time and should be considered. There's Decree 2274. I ask her to vote. Who's up for it? [[11:16:43]] For 382 Decision taken. I remind those who have not yet identified themselves, if we have such examples, it seems that one or two. We don't have any accomplices. So you better make up your mind. Draft Regulation on the Personal Composition of the Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Obstacle to Professional Activities of Journalists of the STB channel by the National Deputy O. Kalashnikov, which took place on 12 July this year at the Supreme Council building. Andrew Shevchenko made such an offer and you have it in Project 2262 in the registration number. If there is a need to discuss it, we can discuss it. But you just have to create this commission to work. Is there no objection? May I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the Personality Order of the Temporary Commission. Please identify yourself. 2262. There's a vote coming. [[11:18:01]] For 407 Decision taken. Thank you. The second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused to Persons by Illegal Acts of Intelligence, Judicial Investigation, Prosecutor's Office and Court" is under consideration. [[on the publication of decisions on the rehabilitation of a person]] The report will be by Stratovic Vladimir Mikolajovich. Please. Instead, are you from the committee? Make a report. Let's introduce ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u41	Good afternoon. Celebrities of the Olinick. The Supreme Council's Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused to Persons by Illegal Actions of Intelligence, Judicial Investigation, Prosecutor's Office and Court, which was submitted to the Ukrainian National Deputies for a previous call. The bill proposes to amend article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Damage, with a view to broadening the content of the person’s rights to disprove the information distributed. At the same time, bearing in mind that the changes proposed by the law referred to in article 11 have been fully taken into account and are now in force in the law, and adopted by Law No. 3165 of December 1, 2005, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision of the Supreme Council of 17 March 2006 No. 3588 on the adoption, on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the order of compensation for damage caused to the person by illegal actions of the bodies of inquiry, judicial investigation, prosecution and court be repealed. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u42	It's about the second reading procedure. There is a proposal from the committee. The author is Vladimir Mikolaiovich Strtovic, more faithfully, he is a reporter, suggests that if there are any observations to the specific standards of this law, you can express them. Please. None. They're offering to take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u43	Yeah, we need to take it off. Because now, in the current law, it's completely completely taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u44	It's all settled. So I'm voting on a motion to withdraw this issue. Please. Yes, I'm asking you to support this proposal. [[11:20:59]] For 362 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is under consideration. According to Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u45	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. On March 4, 2004, the first reading was based on the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act. The drafters of the bill were deputies of the previous vocation. The committee forwarded the draft law to the Venice Commission, i.e. the Commission for Democracy by law and the Commission concluded that the draft amendments to the law did not fully meet the requirements of European legislation, the role and the place of the prosecutor in democratic society. The same is true of the Attorney General’s Office and the National Commission for the Strengthening of Democracy and the Enforcement of Law in Ukraine. In view of this, the Committee on Legislative Security proposes to the Supreme Council that the decision on adoption be revoked on the basis of the first reading of the law and second paragraph that the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement should be entrusted with the task of forming a working group to prepare a new edition of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. I'm asking you to make that decision. And one more thing, it's a trailer. The committee prepares for the second reading of the law, the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, this law has long been non-second reading, and this code is also bound by the Procuratorial Act, the Status of Investigators Act, which I will report after lunch. So I would like to speed up the adoption of this law. By the way, the Codex was given feedback from the Venice Commission for Democracy because of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u46	Thank you for the report. Regarding the second part of this account, the codex was used to promote the work of the Christian congregation. Please, on the Conciliation Council, which will address this issue, make a proposal, faction leaders, committees will be determined, I think your proposals will be supported. And with regard to the Order, which has just been reported repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt as the basis for the draft Law on Public Prosecutions, is there a need for discussion? I think the argument was enough. They're all in agreement, aren't they? Is that why we can put it to a vote? Yes, you can. I'm voting on Supreme Council Resolution No. 0953/P. [[11:24:16]] For 390 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of the system of organs that deal with organized crime is being considered, and the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, please. Where's the reporter? Please. He's just lost it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 19 September this year, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption is submitting to the second reading a revised draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws on the organization of the system of organs that deal with organized crime, registration number 1249, introduced by the national MPs Mishchenko and Jigoya. The adoption of this law is prompted by the need to improve the system of subordination of organs that deal with or participate in organized crime in order to strengthen this fight and to ensure the protection of the interests of the State, the rights and freedoms of citizens, and to ensure effective control of the activities of these bodies by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill provides for amendments to the laws of Ukraine on the organisational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime and on the militia. [[Article 9, 24th, 26th]] [[Article 7]] During the drafting of the bill, nine legislative proposals were made to the committee by Ukrainian national deputies. Proposals to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime “On the Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organised Crime”, such as those mentioned in the comparative table under headings two, four, have been called upon to bring legislation into line with the actual functioning of these bodies, since special units to combat organized crime of internal affairs are not only city departments and departments, but also similar bodies in transport, inter-district departments and departments of relevant departments to combat organized crime. Some suggestions are purely editorial. [[Number one, nine]] The National Deputies have proposed amendments to article 9, 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime, which provides that the Head of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Security of Ukraine is part of the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Ukraine, heads of the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine and its regional departments, as well as the Director of the Department of Anti-Laundering of Revenues, received by the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Director of the Anti-Corruption Administration in the Tax Office of the DPA of Ukraine, and the Heads of the relevant administrations of the State Tax Administration in the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Areas and Cities of Kiev and Sevostation are appointed by the State Administration of the Republic of Crime. These changes not only specify the order of appointment and release of the individuals concerned, but will also be aimed at strengthening the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed amendments to article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime (Organizational and Legal Basis) increase the status of directors of the structural departments of the prosecutor's offices in the enforcement of laws, special departments in the fight against organized crime and will contribute to quality cooperation at the appropriate level and effective supervision in the area of the fight against organized crime. With regard to the observations made by the General Legal Office that the reconciliation of appointments and dismissals from the positions listed in the bill of service is not part of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these observations virtually echo the same observations made by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not take into account when considering the bill in the first reading. Once again, I would like to point out that the error of this view, and to remind that the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85, paragraph 33, provides that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to exercise control within the limits defined by the Constitution and the law. And according to article 89 of the Constitution, these supervisory powers are exercised by the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution makes it clear that the limits of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's control powers, according to its committees, are also defined by laws. The rules of the Constitution are rules of direct action, and the absence of a specification of this provision in certain laws, including the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not mean that these rules cannot be applied in practice. It is clear that appropriate changes should be made to the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The above changes to the Ukrainian Act on Organizational and Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime are aimed at the implementation of the constitutional situation. With regard to the observation of the need for a prior reconciliation of the Chief of Staff to combat organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crime with the Head of the Supreme Council of Autonomy and the Head of the Council of Ministers of Autonomy, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the third part of article 29, paragraph 7 of the second part of article 36 of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, this observation is obviously to be accepted. If the Supreme Council makes the right decision, these provisions can be set out in the final wording of the Law. The honourable national deputies, at the meeting of the committee that took place on October 3, this year, made a rather detailed and constructive discussion of these legislative proposals and the committee unanimously, in fact, with the entire composition of 18 people’s deputies, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a second reading review, to adopt the bill as a whole, as the Law. Please support this decision. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we have nine comments on this project. And there are conclusions from the Legal Authority, an expert body that questions the possibility of adopting this Law in such an order. The arguments that Mikola Vasilovich made here either trust or come out of the conclusion of the profiling committee. We have to take it accordingly. True, his remarks about what we're going to do then, in the final edition, we're going to make a difference there, that's not appropriate, because no one is going to make any changes. We can vote on what has been handed over to the deputies. Since there are no objections to all remarks, they are all taken into account and taken into account in the text in the right column, I can in principle put to the vote, if none of the authors objects, I can put this bill to the vote as a whole. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:32:34]] For 310 Decision taken. It's a professional bill. A draft Law on professional and interprofessional associations in the agro - food field is being considered. The report is given to Ribuku Sergey Mikolayovich of the Committee on Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u49	Thank you. Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, proposed a bill submitted by the people’s deputies of the previous vocation. And it envisions the creation of a system of agrofood by means of professional and mythical associations aimed at the collective promotion of products from producer to buyer. In general, the initiative should be said to be a positive step in regulating the activities of the business associations of the operators. However, in view of the range or majority of the project’s provisions, it is important to note that it is primarily in violation of the basic principles of volunteering for self - control and equality of citizens’ unity. In particular, by article two of the “Conclusion Regulations” associations will be obliged to re-register their statutes, bring them into line with the provisions of this law if, of course, its adoption. At the same time, article 39 of this project provides for State control over the activities of professional, inter-professional organizations and annual reporting to ministries, the implementation of reports from general congregations, and so on. [[Ministry of Agriculture Policy, Economics, Finance]] The main negative features of the project are violations of antitrust legislation and market relations in the relevant sphere. In particular, article eight provides that any property-holding entity has the right to freedom of association in a professional organization, and article 13 provides that the right to participate in the creation of an inter-professional organization is determined by a professional organization that covers more than half of the production of one type of product by territory or by a branch, has experience of work, positive image and so on. It should also be noted that professional and interprofessional associations in accordance with article 41, support, benefit from State preferences. It's a contribution to the formation of a material and technical base, to the integration of all forms of state support for farmers, to the protection against the expansion of the financial and industrial capital. Moreover, articles three, six, twenty - two of the projects allow the State to assume a number of functions. In particular, this is part of price, pricing, even in defining standards, standards, quality criteria, and many other functions that are solely the prerogative of the State. Nor can we agree with article 6, part 1, paragraph 8, where the task of an inter-professional association is to carry out the tasks of public authorities in regulating waterspring, financing companies for the sale of products, and so forth. Of course, it is a negative article 22 that regulates restrictions on participation in interprofessional associations, that is, those who have not joined this association, or new manufacturers will be able to compete on equal terms with a powerful system and are doomed to defeat in advance. There are also a number of provisions that conflict with the current existing legislation and the law on professional integration, but in view of the above mentioned Committee on Agriculture and Social Policy, the bill in question considers that the rights and freedoms of citizens' union, administrative influence mechanisms, regulation of market relations, which may lead to the absence of competition and the removal of small farms, businesses, individuals from this area. Moreover, it is against this bill because it is proposed for association. 550 associations, which are led by the European Business Association, were further expressed. Thus, the Committee on Agrarian Policy, land relations, invites you, honourable national MPs, the bill given to reject, cancel, withdraw from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u50	Thank you for the thorough report. The question is to the reporter? Oh, that's the second reading. None. So if there is. Do you have motive? In Baranowski's speech with a motive, please. No one wants to play again, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this law just contains a better experience that is in Europe in organizing the work of social inter-professional organizations. There can be no such thing as 11 public organizations, such as winemaking or 17 sugarmaking. Everyone has created and walked in mysterious ways, lobbying each other’s questions, not the whole field. And that's why this law provides for order, as it does in civilized countries. Next. They will have the possibility of public control over budget allocations. They should form relevant documents in price policy, in tariff policy, that is, they propose to the government, to the Supreme Council those or other normative documents, and that's how it's done everywhere. The State may even delegate certain rights to them. Since there are no more administrations like this, you might want to take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Petrovich, in the process of second reading, the committee prepared the project for consideration in the Supreme Council, and the rapporteur, on behalf of the committee, found out how the committee members felt about the project and suggested that it be withdrawn. In itself, the problem you're talking about exists. Hence, it must be written in other legal formulas. Prepare such a bill, and we will consider it in full compliance with the Rules. In the meantime, we only had one offer. This bill, because the imperfections revealed by members of the Committee, do not allow them to work on it in a second reading, to withdraw from consideration, and to cancel the previous decision of the Supreme Council on this matter. Therefore, I am obliged to put the matter to the vote, and I ask you to determine for it. This is draft Decree 0949-P. Please vote against the previous decision. [[11:40:07]] For 331 Decision taken. The question of choosing the courts is, after 12 o'clock, how traditionally do we have to prepare them for this procedure? A draft Order on the Assignment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Krasnotor Village Head is under consideration. Bogesheva Natala Vladislavna will report on this. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u53	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Gradually, it becomes traditional for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the appointment of out-of-order elections for the heads of the territorial communities. Today, the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self - Government has put forward a proposal for the appointment of 16 consecutive elections. All the reasons provided by law regarding the appointment of these elections have been upheld. So I would suggest maybe I read all the decrees, and all the communities. In turn? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u54	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! Please do not direct the interviewer from the session room, for these are the duties of the Head of the meeting. That's a good deal. Yes, then there are questions to Decree No. 2227? None. We can put it to a vote. Then, with your permission, I will put to the vote order number 2227 on the appointment of the election of the Krasnotor village head. Please vote. [[11:42:14]] For 387 Thank you. Decision taken. It's similar. Knazevitch microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u55	I don't deny making any decisions. I just have a question for you. Don't you think it's advisable to draft a bill on the committee to amend the law to pass these powers on to the Central Electoral Commission, a special body already mandated to re-election? It is not a royal matter to vote for every country’s head in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u56	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, we wanted to do this, but article 83 of the Constitution provides for this until the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u57	Although we could have supported Ruslan here, we would have less work, no doubt, but the Constitution is higher than anyone else's law. If there are no questions about Project Order No. 2228 “On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Dolinnen Rural Head”, then I will put the vote to the vote and ask for support. [[11:43:42]] For 367 It's been decided. A draft Order on the Assignment of the Cormian Rural Head Elections is under consideration. Bill No. 2229. No questions? None. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[11:44:12]] For 365 Thank you, copy. A similar draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Mizgir Rural Head. Bill No. 2230. No questions? Please vote. [[11:44:42]] For 370. Thank you, the decision is made. Draft Decree No. 2231 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Tsvetian Rural Head. No notice, no warning? Please vote. [[11:45:13]] For 381 Decision taken. Draft Decision on Assignment of Elections of the Novoselick City Head Bill No. 2232. No questions, no comments, no warnings? Please vote. [[11:45:43]] For 384 Decision taken. Yes, please, Natala Vladislavna. There's more where that came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u58	Similarly yesterday, a committee was considered, and it is proposed to appoint an extraordinary election, decree No. 2263 of the Lubimov Rural Head, the Lubimiv Rural Council of the Andrušev district of the Žitomir region.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u59	Any questions? I'm betting on the vote number 2263 project on the appointment of the election of the head of Lyubimov. Please vote. [[11:46:28]] For 378 Copy that. The same decree of 2264 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Obolonian Rural Head is the Poltava Region. No questions? Please vote. [[11:46:59]] For 381 Thank you. Decision taken. A similar decision, registration number 2265, on the appointment of the second-in-command election of Bondarov village head of the Jarmoline district of Hmelnick. No questions? Please be supportive. [[11:47:28]] For 382 Decision taken. Order No. 2266 on the appointment of the successive election of the Pavlovski Rural Head, the Marin district of the Donetsk district. No questions? Please vote. [[11:47:57]] For 381, the decision is made. Order No. 2268 on the appointment of the successive election of the village head, Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk. Please vote. [[11:48:26]] For 379 Decision taken. Order No. 2269 on the appointment of the next election of the Armenian head, Kolomatsk district of Kharkiv. No questions? Please vote. [[11:48:55]] For 371 Decision taken. Bill No. 2270 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sukholimanian village head, Ovidiopil district of Odessa. No warning? Please vote. [[11:49:23]] For 371 Decision taken. Order No. 2271 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Smótric village head, the Danube Region of the Hmelnick district, on December 17. No objections? Please vote. [[11:49:54]] For 368 A decision has been made. Bill No. 2272 on the appointment of the successive election of the city’s city head, Hersonian. December 17th. No questions? Please be supportive. [[11:50:23]] For 386 Decision taken. And bill number 2267 on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Gavril Rural Head is the Bobrinecki district of the Chernig region, on December 17th. No questions? Yes, please. [[11:51.]] For 381 Decision taken. Natalia Vladislavna, we seem to have done everything. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u60	That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u61	Thank you, sit down, please. For reasons of vote? What has happened? That's how it happened. You may vote before the vote. Well, Easy hasn't heard from society in two days. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I would like to point out that all these votes, starting with the first decision of the Supreme Council to abolish the President's veto on utility services, all these votes actually contradict article 84 of the Constitution, which stipulates that each national MP should vote in person. I took in registrations for the absence of more than 60 national deputies. Who's on board, who's sick, and they're all voting. And what do we see in the hall? Chechetov was in charge of the Property Fund. He's running a faction in the Hall today. Raised his hand - 10 people voted in favour of 200. Adam Ivanovich, this is a violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, calm down. Calm down. Oleg Lazko made the right observation. This is the standard of the Constitution. But according to practice and our experience, this can be decided as the Constitution says only one body — the Constitutional Court. So please contact him. That's the first one. The other one. Please take a look in the session room, look at the factions of the “Regions” and your faction, and count who's running more. Dear colleagues! Let us be wiser in that sense. What you're talking about today is tomorrow he's turning boomerang against you. Let's go to the ratification question section. A draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol amending the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, registration No. 0038, is under consideration. Report to the Head of the State Customs Service, Mr. Alexander Borisovich, please. Why not ask a question immediately, if there is one? There's a question. No questions asked. Is there a denial? No notes? Thank you. Then I'm putting your voting license under the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol on Amendments to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, registration number 0038. Please be supportive. [[11:54:15]] For 388 The law is passed. Let us wish Alexander Borisovich that the tax collectors work as quickly as we do with this law. Have a seat, please. It's under review. Break? Oh, no, we still have a little time. The draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukrainian strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training, registration number 0042. Reported Chief of General Staff, Chief of the Armed Forces Kirichenko Sergey Aleksandrovich. It doesn't, does it? None. Without a report, we may not consider it. Dear colleagues, you can do anything, but there is no reporter, and this is disrespect for the Supreme Council, that the man appointed by the President as a reporter does not want to report to the Supreme Council. So he doesn't want this law ratified. So please. I repeat, I repeat. Don't make me break the Rules, because Baby's sitting in the hall, he's gonna say I broke it right now. I'm not gonna break it. [[Applause]] Therefore, with your permission, Your Honor, there will be a recess of up to 12 hours of 30 minutes. After the break, we will begin to listen to questions about the appointment and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. We'll continue the meeting. You and I agreed that after the break, we would consider matters related to the judicial corps. I would like to inform you that, given that we have considered the matter at a somewhat accelerated pace, Sergey Alexanderovich Kirichenko is not to blame for his arrival on time for the hour that he was informed of. So it's gonna be okay. After the judges, we will consider the issue of ratifying the problem that was to be considered. Let's move on to the election of judges. Order number 2277. Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones! At its meeting on October 4, this year, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the submission of an additional executive responsibility for the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, acting as the head of the Supreme Court of the Lord’s Court of Ukraine, to elect the judges of the relevant courts of general jurisdiction on an indefinite basis. The committee supported the submission and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect the judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is registered and distributed to you, on an untimely basis. Ladies and gentlemen, the next order for consideration of candidates for judges is proposed. I read the name of the judge mentioned in the draft ruling. If the deputies have a note or a warning to this candidate, then we remove it from the general list and return to its consideration separately. After voting on candidates for whom there are no observations or warnings, we take decisions on each individual. All the judges are in a peorsium bed. When the judge’s name is read, he rises from the scene, and the national deputies ask him questions. According to article 85, part one, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to elect judges on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Wallin Region - Sagittarius Andriyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region - Koseljeva Boris Fedorovich, Lugansk Valentina Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region - Momota Vladimir Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava Region - Galonkina Sergio Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Czernovetsk Region - Highland Natalia Kazimirovna; the local Gorochov District Court of Volinsk Kovalczuk Volodymyr Dmitrovic;
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u66	Sergey Vasilovich, I'm sorry, I'm in session. Your business is to read the draft decree. Please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u67	Okay. The local Yellowwater City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region - Alexander Mikolaiovich; the local Starobesov district court of the Donetsk Region - Presada Sergija Sergiyyovich; the local Vassili district court of the district of Stepanenko, Julia Anatoliyevna; the local Vilnius District Court of the district of Bespalco Tamar Dmitrovna; the local Shevchenkovsky District Court of Zaporozhye Galuchenko Julius Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u68	There's a denial. Please, come on. There's a denial in Galushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u69	Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u70	Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u71	The local Hortical District Court of Zaporozhye Komisarenko Ludmila Vasilovna; the local Stahanov City Court of Lugansk, Alexander Georgievich; the local Zdołbunów district court of the province of Rovnen, Mishur Vasil Stepanović; the local Radivilovsky District Court of the province of Kahn Vitali Illić; The local County Court of Suma Klimenko Allu Yakovna; The local First National Court of Kharkiv District, Donec Liana Alexiyevna; the local Cemerovecki District Court of the Hmelnick district of Kobrin Igor Georgievovich; the local Bobrovicki District Court of the Chernigiv district of Demchenko Ludmila Mikolayevna; the local Ichnian District Court of the Chernigiv district of Karaps Tatyana Volodymyrovna; The local Bologna District Court of Kiev, Czerdnichenko Natalija Petrovna; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Vladimirenko Svetlana Vejacheslavna; The Lviv Chamber of Commerce Court of Corduk Galin Tarasovna; the local court of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Bulko Vladimir Igorovich; the local court of the Zakarpatsk district of Karpinz Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we will thus have a question to the judge of the local Shevchenkov district court of Zaporozhye Galuchenko. Except for this last name, everyone else, please, Grigorovitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u73	Dear Chairman, thank you. I have this commission from the national deputy Skutka, who is not present at the consideration of this matter for a valid reason. Since the materials have just come in and he hasn't been able to get acquainted, he's going to add additional materials that he has or comments on the court of the local Court of Appeal, Johno-Frankivske Bulci, because he hasn't been able to file them. And he's asking us not to rule out the issue, but to pause it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u74	Yes, please, as a last name, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u75	A bride.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u76	Do we have it today? A local, uh, local farm court. Yes. Okay. So far, that's the name we're taking from the draft decision. No other comments? Then, with your permission, I am voting on the ruling number 2277 “On the selection of judges on an indefinite basis”. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u77	Please be supportive. [[12:39:57]] For 393 Decision taken. Yes, please, Julia Andriyovna Galuchenko, come to the microphone. Turn on the maintenance mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u78	Dear Julia Andreevna has been under consideration since March 2003 in the case of the disabled person of the First Group of Szczerbina. You see, this man has repeatedly asked me to set up a group, get him a pension. As much as this man is suffering you probably know how to extend the case like that, three years is not. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies, indeed, the disabled of the first group of Sterbina Viktor Alexiyovich, appealed to the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Shevchenkov district of Zaporozhye to renew his violated pension security right at the level of the subsistence minimum, as established by the Constitution of Ukraine. What was the problem? He refers to the fact that the legislation on the basis of which he was assigned a pension does not correspond to this very article of the Constitution, which guarantees him a pension that is not below the subsistence minimum. That is why we have appealed to the Supreme Court to endorse the violation before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the inadequacy of these regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine. So far, we have not received an answer from the Supreme Court on the merits of this resolution, and since the question of the unconstitutionality of the laws on the basis of which he was assigned a pension is being raised, the local court cannot continue to address this issue. So the case is suspended.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I think the answer has satisfied us. The judge, in my opinion, did exactly the right thing. Let's support it. I put to the vote the election of an untimely judge of the local Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye Galuchenko Julius Andriyovna. Please vote. [[12:42:28]] For 380 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, what you're going to have to offer is to re-examine Vladimir Igorovich Bully on the committee with those.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u81	We don't have that opportunity, we were looking at the Volodymyr Igorovich Bull yesterday. And the committee's decision was unanimous, asking the Supreme Council to support this candidacy. There were no materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u82	Right. We heard the profile committee's opinion. But, dear fellows, there was an offer, since the National MP had failed, let him be punished for not being able to do so, because the list, as far as I know, who and what judges, and what courts to deal with were handed down long ago. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee to elect the judge of the local court of agriculture, Ivano-Frankow district, Bulko Volodymira Igorovich. Please vote. [[12:43:51]] For 377 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u83	Five candidates for judges yesterday were postponed until final examination by the Complaints Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u84	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Let's welcome the newly elected judges, and we wish them no longer in our session room, unless they are reassigned to higher office. And welcome to the debut of our colleague Vasil Vasilovich, Head of the Supreme Court. Dear colleagues! It's gonna be okay. Tomorrow Vasil Vasil Vasilovich will be sworn in by a member of the High Council of Justice. It will be. Everything will be according to plan. So we go back to the consideration of the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Command of the United Nations Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukraine's strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training, Registration No. 0042. Reported Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Kirichenko Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected comrades of the national deputies of Ukraine. A draft Ukrainian Law on a Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces for Transformation and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukraine’s strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training is proposed for consideration. The question whether the submission for ratification of the draft Ukrainian Law was approved at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 13 September this year. I believe it is necessary to note that the Memorandum is a framework that defines only the general principles and principles of our State's granting air transport. Specific mechanisms for its use will be contained in separate bilateral agreements between Ukraine and NATO member states and States participating in the Partnership for Peace Programme, which are known to be Belarus, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Austria, Sweden and many other countries. I consider it important that the Memorandum states that Ukraine leaves behind the right to refuse the use of NATO's request for transport aircraft, coming out of its own national interests, as stated directly in the second article of the Memorandum. I emphasize that from an economic point of view, the ratification of the Memorandum benefits Ukraine, benefits its airlines and, in general, the aviation industry of our state. Meanwhile, there is a fierce competition for the airline market in the world. So any international agreement that strengthens the position of domestic airlines in this market is in favour of our Ukraine. The document creates favourable conditions for the promotion of domestic airlines to international aviation markets and as a result for the aviation industry of the country. In accordance with article 2, all NATO member states and the State participating in the Partnership for Peace programme are invited to implement this memorandum on the basis of separate bilateral agreements. Ukraine's refusal to ratify and accordingly to obtain certain preferences that it gives will reduce Ukraine's competitiveness and may lead to a loss of interest in using our transport aviation on this rather promising market. In fact, Russia is very active in relations with NATO on this issue, both through the Volga-Dnepr and Flight airlines and through the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. As for the term strategic transport aviation, it is defined in Article 3 of this memorandum and will become an integral part of Ukraine's National Legislation. The list of aircraft belonging to the strategic class of the distance to which the transport takes place includes military-transport aircraft: IL-76, AN-12, TU-154, as well as AN-124 “Ruslan” aircraft and 225 “Mira” aircraft. The implementation of the regulations does not provide for financial expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine, and at the same time it will be possible to increase currency revenues to the state. As Chief of Staff, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if this is not about civil aviation companies, but about the military and transport aviation of the Armed Forces, Ukraine's participation in each specific operation using military and transport aviation will be carried out in compliance with the requirements of current legislation that regulates the deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. I ask you to excuse me for having had to return to this matter again because of my fault, and please accept the prescribed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u86	Yes, dear fellows. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u87	Prokopovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. I want to say that this issue has been discussed by the Committee on European Integration. We listened very carefully to the reasoning of the Cabinet of Ministers and supported the bill. I very much ask my colleagues to support me. Because once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2005 Ukraine received $60 million. At the end of 2005, we won the NATO tender and for three years we will be able to get 650 million euros. That is why it is only convenient for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u88	Thank you. But we're not discussing it yet, we're asking questions. Oleg Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u89	Deeply respected comrade Lieutenant General, I fully support your position. We also voted unanimously on the committee. I want you to clarify the next question again. The signing of the memorandum is not mandatory for Ukrainian troops, Ukrainian pilots to serve NATO military operations at hot spots such as Iraq and Afghanistan. I would like you to answer that question once again, to focus on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. I firmly confirm that the memorandum does not provide for the mandatory involvement of the aviation and the armed forces of Ukraine as well as another aviation to use some tasks in NATO operations. It envisions a general proposal from our nation to be able to carry out air transport in the course of some tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u91	Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u92	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. The honourable national MPs, after explaining the previous question to the honourable General, are quite clear that the ratification of this memorandum, to which I call, is essentially the implementation of our legislation, in particular the Strategic Partnership with NATO Act, which we voted in March 2003, and I can only urge you to be consistent in the implementation of our plans in the same legislative body.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u93	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u94	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear reporter, please tell me, who will determine first of all the appropriateness, as you said, of carrying out transport flights to Ukraine of those or other cargoes? By the way, the very name of the draft law says that as a whole in operations, not in peacekeeping, but in the use of our strategic aviation in NATO operations and teaching, and as we know, they can be far from peacekeeping operations. And the second. There's a figure here that's going to be 65 million dollars we're going to have a profit, that is, Ukraine from these transports. And please tell us, in connection with the use of the airspace of our Ukraine by the Americans, how many did we get in all these years of shipping to Afghanistan into our budget, to Ukraine's budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. Can I answer that? It's about the first question. Thus, the memorandum gives the right and enables the Cabinet of Ministers to identify issues related to the appropriate use of air transport in one or the other operations. And when this operation, as you say, is of a problematic nature, of course, the Cabinet of Ministers will make a politically and economically appropriate decision for our state. As for the use of our country's space by other states' planes, using space, with appropriate agreements, before the coming of the State Budget, we're going to get some money. This problem does not apply to the activities of the General Staff. I can't answer specifically about the number we're going to get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u96	Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I have a question. This is the scope, chapter two. It states that this memorandum does not guarantee the use of Ukraine's strategic aviation in any NATO operation, thus leaving Ukraine with the right to refuse a request. And the question is, "What will be the use mechanism if an attempt is made to involve military aviation of our military air force in NATO military operations? I am convinced that such decisions should be made only by the Supreme Council. How will this mechanism be resolved, and how is it foreseen in the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. The memorandum foresees the non-requirement of tasks at the request of NATO or at the invitation of NATO, it foresees the possibility of adopting decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with national interests in the relevant bilateral agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the structures that will address it. That's the first one. The second question. As for the use of the Armed Forces, I would like to stress once again that if the issue is about military-transport air force, it will have to be carried out in accordance with the requirements of current legislation, in accordance with the order in which troops participate in performing tasks outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u99	Thank you, sit down, Sergey Alexanderovich. From the committee, the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting considered a bill of ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the use of Ukrainian strategic transport aviation. The Committee has taken a unanimous positive decision: it believes that the adoption of the bill will contribute to strengthening Ukraine's international authority and further practical steps towards developing and deepening international cooperation. Including the committee notes that the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. On the contrary, it allows for the involvement of serious financial resources, transport services. I want to point out that there is competition on the transport services market. Ukraine has unique opportunities, primarily on the basis of Ruslan, “Mray”. Paragraph 2.3 foresees, as already noted, that the memorandum allows Ukraine to make appropriate decisions clearly in the context of its national interests. The committee asks for support and for a bill on the ratification of the memorandum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u101	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Any questions? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u103	Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Sign up for the factions, please. Yes, now, please, from the national deputies who wish. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's give the opportunity to speak only from factions. No objections? Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Gerasimjuk prepares.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, during the parliamentary delegation's stay with Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, he led the “Ukraine-Germany” group in the Bundestag, and we were able to negotiate with the representatives of Germany in NATO. And at the time, we were looking at a supply tender, for the use of an alliance of transport planes. I'm reporting, I'm speaking in that call in this session room, and I'm saying that Ukraine has won a tender for the Boeings, and it's our planes, our Ruslan, "AN-124-100." I want to remind you that there are four engines on these planes, they are produced in us in Ukraine, the Zaporezian Open Shareholder Society. This is kind of the first kind of introduction to what we need to continue and beyond the course we took, and we've taken a course to conquer a niche of passenger-transport transports for the sake of the alliance with our cargo military-transport, as we used to call it, aviation. By the way, this memorandum in the event of our ratification -- I propose the adoption of Law 0042 and the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Chief Command -- so that we can continue to work in a more favourable manner. Because we are very often in the grip of political clichés and political spells today: NATO, NATO, NATO, good or NATO, bad, WTO, happiness, the World Trade Organization will lead us into a new orbit. Nothing like this, we must always think and go out, and we are obliged in this session hall to make decisions based on Ukraine’s national economic interests. In this case, for the Ukrainian military and industrial complex, for the high-tech sector, for the area where many of our academic, scientific, scientific centres are being held, it's a good collaboration in the same way that we're going to look at it today. So I personally, and our faction of the Party of Regions will vote in favour of Bill 0042: on the ratification of the memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u105	Please, Gerasimük gives the word to Ruslan Knyazevitch. Get ready, Maddusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u106	It's a shame that you didn't explain the reason why you couldn't report the defense minister's bill at the session because he was actually accused of disrespecting the Supreme Council. And I point out that it is not for the President's mandate, but for the government's decision to report this bill. But I hope that this was some important reason, because we know that he is such a strong supporter of cooperation and accession to NATO. At the same time, I draw your attention to the fact that this memorandum was signed by our party in 2004, namely, on June 7th, during the time of the Government, which led the current and former Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic. And it's very symbolic that, according to Mr. Yanukovich's signature, this bill was sent to the Supreme Council for his future ratification. Very, to be honest, the heart is filled with joy when you read in an explanatory note such words as the Government refers to Parliament as the basis for this bill. He says that the further practical step towards developing and deepening cooperation between Ukraine and NATO is the ratification of this memorandum in the context of the master's course on integrating our state into Euro-Atlantic structures. I hope this is a real assessment of the situation surrounding Ukraine's cooperation with NATO on the part of the leadership of the Ukrainian government. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, this is a large service market and the same thing that was happening around discussing the issue of our peacekeeping contingent when we gave permission to participate in UN peacekeeping tasks, the same applies to this case. Our competitors in this game, especially the Russian Federation and the former republics of the Union, which have these kinds of planes. I draw your attention to the fact that such a kind of success and such a beautiful opportunity for Ukraine is not eternal. Now NATO is actively working to create its own A-300M aircraft, which is actually going to take over this market completely, I assure you that it will be created in maybe two or three years. And we're going to completely lose this market. If we have such a unique chance right now, even if for two to three years we bring 600 to 700 million euros into the Ukrainian Treasury, it's just a sin not to take this kind of opportunity. With regard to the memorandum itself, the Chief of Staff has rightly said that it is a framework agreement and, in each particular case, there will be a special bilateral agreement that will regulate the conditions for cooperation in a peace conflict where NATO participates as a peacemaker. In this context, the faction “Our Ukraine” supports the bill introduced by the Government and calls on all colleagues to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u107	Ivan Boki, please, microphone. Ivan Boki. Boki and Bondarczuk are a big difference. Please, I gave the floor to John Bokom. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say on behalf of the Committee on European Integration, which discussed this issue yesterday, that this memorandum must be ratified. There is no danger for Ukraine, and this is exactly where we are said to be catching luck on the flight. But I want to say a little bit wider, going outside of this document's own ratification. We understand, I think we should all go to the international arena with high technology. Today, we can do so because of our aviation. But we have to think about the future, so that we can keep the air transport sector tight and in our hands, along with other countries that have this possibility. Today, it is clear to everyone that there are three centers in the world — strategic air - building centers. This is the United States, Europe and the Third Center, Ukraine and Russia, if they act together. Therefore, we need to show that we have, what we can go to the world with, and what we can offer in markets that are not waiting for us but are bound to conquer. So I think it's going to be one of the steps to conquer such markets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Leveko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u110	Lukyanenko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. I am not a blind supporter of NATO, and I am a consistent, let's say, person who is behind Ukraine's interests. But look, when we have very little funding for our Armed Forces, the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and Ukraine in the various NATO teachings in various of those interactions, and so on, it provides enormous opportunities, as if to compensate for what we should do with good military funding. In time, the Supreme Council decreed that 3% of the domestic gross product should be allocated to the armed forces. This figure has never been funded by Ukraine, the Supreme Council, for our armed forces. So our armed forces are constantly underfunded, constantly lacking in various material means, weapons are not being renewed, technology is not being updated, and so on. In this, Ukraine is gradually lagging and weakening in 15 years. So participation in international learning enables us to support our armed forces, well, on a level that is more or less international in terms of what the modern army means and what modern weapons mean. In this case, we are not talking, of course, about Ukraine's military involvement in cooperation with NATO, but in transport. It's a peaceful way of cooperating. Clearly, we must support and ratify this protocol in the interests of Ukraine. Moreover, from a legal point of view, well, there is a great advantage to this document, because it is a framework, it determines the general characteristics, and in each individual case our government will decide on the relevance, the insignificance and the conditions under which Ukraine can provide. We know that Ukraine in its time was one of the countries that could build airplanes at the highest technical level. Because of the collapse of our economy, because of the loss of a huge number of our scientists, Ukraine is on the verge of the danger that we will no longer be able to build airplanes. So even from this point of view of maintenance, actually at the high level of the intellectual power of Ukraine, even from this point of view, it is necessary to ratify this protocol in order to support our, you know, industry, our scientific staff at the level that can build the most modern aircraft. So I urge you to vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, I am putting to the vote the Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Commander of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukraine's strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training.” Registration number 0042. [[13:10:33]] For 390 The law is passed. Memorandum ratified. Let us turn to the section “Review with proposals by the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since April 6th of this year is under consideration. Registration number 0840. Reported Deputy Justice Minister Emelyanova Inna Ivanovna. Prepare Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Law on the Status of Investigators, adopted once again in a new edition, was not signed by the President. And I would like to point out that this has already been proposed by the already insinuated president. What I'm saying is that the remarks and perceptions of the President's conceptual disagreement remain unchanged and are the following. As noted earlier, the status of the investigator, his rights and duties, guarantees of procedural activity, conditions of material security and social protection have been defined by a number of legislative acts. It's also the Criminal Procedure Code; it's also the Law on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement; it's the basic laws that regulate the status of specific investigators depending on which structures they work in -- it's the Prosecutor's Office Act, the Security Service Act, the State Tax Service Act, the Militia Act. And most of the statutes adopted by the Law on the Status of Investigators are the revisions of the rules of these laws, which I have already listed. In view of this, the President believes that there is an objective need to harmonize these rules, particularly with regard to investigators working in different civil and military institutions by adopting a new special law that does not have a separate subject of legal regulation. In addition, the law contains rules that define and implement the investigating assistant’s institute, giving him a number of procedural powers, such as assisting the investigator in conducting investigations and participating in a number of investigations. This is contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because such an institution in the Code is neither foreseen nor given procedural rights to carry out any kind of procedural action. In addition, the Act establishes a number of additional guarantees of independence, the inviolability of the investigator – this is contrary to article 24 of the Constitution, by which citizens are equal before the law and cannot be granted any kind of privileges. There are still a number of observations that relate to part of financial and economic grounding. The president pointed out in his proposals how much money would need to be passed and put into effect. On the basis of the above, the President proposes to reject the law. Again, I would like to point out that this is already the fifth time that the President imposes, applies his veto, and I ask you, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, to support the President's stated proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u113	Yes, are there any questions? The investigators are clear. Okay. Thank you. Have a seat. Yes, please, from the committee we have Musik Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Indeed, the Law on the Status of Investigators is a record number. One of the recorders of the President's veto. The fifth president is admiring the law, and four times the Committee on Law Enforcement and Parliament approved the Law in a new edition. After all, the President's new editorial didn't like it, and today we're looking at the issue of the President's next veto. I'll tell you from the committee that the Law was in our opinion necessary to normalize the work of investigators to protect their activities socially. But the president calculated that this would require about 35 million. The money is added annually to the cost of keeping investigators. The President's situation was presented so that, as the Russian say, all investigators would be mutilated, or all would be fired from their jobs at the same time and received their initial aid, which would therefore require a huge cost. And, as the deputy minister said, status and social security issues have been defined by judges, prosecutors, lawyers. But I have to say that the efforts of the committee after the adoption of this Act have been exhausted, the committee will support the President's proposal to repeal the Act. But, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you once again, as in the previous speech: let's go back to the adoption of the new Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, and this is the part that concerns the President's remarks. Today, we have five investigating bodies that have the right to investigate, so investigators work in different institutions, with different rights, and we need to regulate this in the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. That is, the committee supports proposals to repeal the decision to approve the Status of Investigators Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u115	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. But there is an even wiser offer than a codex. We need to create whether the National Bureau of Investigation or what it's called, and all the investigators will be in the same hands. So that's the offer. No questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u116	But this office has to be installed in the KPC anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u117	There's a question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u118	Vladimir Romanovich, thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, “Regions”, Zaporozhye. I have a question, you know, when this bill was passed and the hall was unanimous. Followers are kind of elite, the cube is so intelligent among our law enforcement structures, and, God would give them all to be like that, but I'm saying it's ideal. As a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, who cares who brings these vetoes? So you're the head of the profile committee then, the head of the subcommittee will say, please, are these comments from the interior ministry or is it someone else? Because I think we're with these vetoes, especially law enforcement, we have serious problems at the President's Secretariat. There's either someone who doesn't understand, or creatively doesn't know, and that's how they got it and wrote it. I hear this in the hall about the intactness, it's overtaken everyone. If the integrity is to be removed from the investigation police, of all of them, the President, including the need to be photographed. Who brings these vetoes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u119	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, on the other hand, is a supporter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Even the lobbyist. And there was a time when an agreement was reached, well, that's what they told me, with the President, that the law would be signed. But today, on behalf of the President, representatives of the Ministry of Justice are speaking. So I gave you the answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u120	Yes. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you see in the investigator you want to cross, so I see. Sit down, Vladimir Ivanovich, sit down. The biggest investigator's lobby before you was Yuri Carmazin, and now you've come to grips with his problems. Yes, dear colleagues, this time the opinion of the committee of profile coincides with the proposal of the President of Ukraine. The president of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. I'm in line with the Rules and I'm putting this proposal first. Please vote against the law. [[13:19:46]] For 387 The President's proposal to reject the law is supported, the law is rejected. The question is being considered. The Ukrainian Act "On the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 28 March this year, registration number 0834. Reported by Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich. Get ready for the sidekick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being considered by the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, adopted on 23 February 2006. According to part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian President returned the law with proposals for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law is not signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First. The law defines the scope and direction of the use of public budget funds to support agri-industrial engineering systems. In particular, part 2 of article 13 of the Law provides that the corresponding annual allocations amount to 4 percent of the total budget. According to part four of article 13 and part two of article 15, these costs are intended to provide partial compensation for the cost of agricultural products purchased by agricultural producers of domestic production techniques and the cost of acquired technical equipment for the introduction of innovative technologies for the production, storage and processing of important agricultural crops and animal production. In addition to partially compensating the National Bank's commercial lending rate to agri-industrial enterprises, the creation of agri-industrial engineering infrastructure. These positions do not correspond to part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Part one and part two of article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is intended solely for the State Budget Act to determine any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs, the size and purpose of the expenditure. Budget commitments and payments can only be made on the basis of an appropriate budget assignment established by the State Budget Act of Ukraine in accordance with the budget code. The other one. Part 2 of article 16 of the Act provides for the non-application of import duties when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of technical means for an agribusiness complex, except for those used in the assembly and spare parts to them that are not produced by domestic enterprises. This does not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Tax Scheme Act, under which tax and tax administration mechanisms and tax benefits cannot be established or amended by other laws other than taxation laws. In connection with the statement, the President proposes that part 2 and 4 of article 13, part 2 of article 15, as well as part 2 of article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine be excluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u122	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat. Yes. Dry and. For agriculture. No, a lot of those who want to sign up, please. Yes, please, five minutes. He's a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u123	Kirilenko's word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u124	Please, John Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u125	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I understand. The President's argument logically interferes with tax legislation, which is strictly forbidden. It interferes with the Budget Resolution, which is also prohibited and so forth. Yuri Fedorovich, it is clear that the law will have to be worked out. Instead, there is a budget in the Supreme Council. Let's say again for both the agrarians and the MPs, and what does the 2007 budget provide for in this part to improve the technical security of agricultural production, which is now in very difficult condition? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the 2007 budget is intended to channel part of the funds to technical improvements in agriculture under three main programmes. The first is partial compensation for the interest rate on commercial banks' loans, which is provided for in draft law 653 million dollars. The second is a 30 per cent compensation for the value of complex agricultural techniques, for which the 2007 State Budget project defines almost 132 million dollars. And the third direction. This is the provision of technology under financial lysis, which also determines the amount of government budget expenditure in the amount of 130 million dollars. Thus, these three directions are designed to finance technical improvements in agriculture in 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u127	Please, don't be silly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u129	Yaroslava Dry Mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u130	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm asking for words on these vetoes because lately I've been deeply concerned about the state of affairs of the Ukrainian Secretaryate, and I can't understand the logic of their veto. Either they don’t read what they’re being set up or promoted, or they don’t. Look. We're in the government policy of the village long ago, we've come to a dead end, and we're making beautiful gestures instead of either continuing and finishing the reform of the village, or closing it down, because it's not like that and it's not where we're going. Without a material and technical basis, when did Tomic introduce this bill into the convening, without a material and technical basis, without a small mechanization of which farms can we talk about? So we're like, big agricultural production, we're lost, we're not done, the president's vetoing. I have a question for Yuri Fedorovich. Tell me, do you, as minister or president, have confidence in tomorrow's day of the village that you're proposing?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. In the area of financing for rural development, we are still counting on the support of the people's deputies for the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007, which identifies a significant increase in the volume of State support, including through programmes that provide for the support of technical restocking in the agri-industrial complex. I've already called these three programs and I can only go into detail that if 653 million dollars is going to be spent on borrowing, that's 2.5 times more than it was in 2006. If we talk about a 30 percent compensation for the complex agricultural technology envisaged in the budget, it's 4 times more than in 2006. The financial lysing for today is not working at all. For the next year, we're planning direct expenditure from the State budget so far at least 100 million dollars. That's right. Of course, the technical situation in the agro-industrial complex is not what's wrong today, it's critical, because 95 percent of the technology today worked the depreciation term. But I predict that, with the adoption of the State Budget Act, we will be able to finance those programs that are now relevant to the agri-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u132	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, the president has responded to your criticism, and the leadership of the Secretariat has been changed since March-month. Yes, please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u133	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I'd like to ask you a question as a minister. Here we are proposing a bill and an alternative position for the government is to make certain subsidies to agriculture. Please tell me, can this, in principle, solve the problem of mechanization of agriculture through subsidies? Is it possible that market mechanisms for agricultural production — mortgages and land sales as such — should be introduced in order to make it a business rather than, in fact, an area of subsidies?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. We don't have such a vision in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy today that only on the basis of expenditure, including direct expenditure to support the agro-industrial complex, can this kind of activity be made an agrarian business. That's why we've developed laws and laws. They are now focused on offering and establishing market relations in all areas, including mortgages, in agriculture. So in no way are we expecting to solve agricultural issues exclusively through the budget, yet today we are talking about that in the 2007 draft budget we need to support those articles that provide for the technical restocking of the APC and which I have already described. But in part to support those areas that may still be subsidized today and have the right to do so. This is especially the field of animal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u135	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. The profile committee is the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sidelnik Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, which we are considering, was adopted by the Supreme Council on February 23, 2006. The return of the President of Ukraine to the law with proposals and observations for re-examination is explained by the fact that in its position, part two and part four of article 13 and part two of article 15 and part two of article 16 did not meet the requirements of fiscal legislation. On the profile committee, the Agrarian Committee discussed this issue, and the committee with the details recommended and adopted this bill, which is a recommendation for your consideration. I just wanted to say that we, well, the minister informed us today that 90 percent of agricultural technology was purchased in the past, not in the past, but in the past. That's why we need to change it into roots, today's technique. We've lost about 30 percent to 40 percent if we collect this equipment. So the law is very important. And I ask all of you, please, MPs, to support him, to vote. Let the peasants work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Although perhaps respected colleagues, we adopt laws to change other laws. If it is contrary to the Constitution, there is nothing we can do about it, and if it is contrary to any law, there is always a law that is later passed. So it is not entirely legal to say that there is a contradiction. Yes, please, are there willing to share in the discussion? You don't? Then I put to the vote each of the President's proposals, because the committee is proposing to take it into account. The President’s proposal to exclude part two of article 13 is made. Please vote. [[13:32:25]] For 379 I'm betting on the President's motion to exclude part four of article 13. Please vote. [[13:32:46]] For 381 Dear colleagues, I'm going to Oleg Laishka, don't run around the hall, don't push the buttons. Stay where you are. I am proposing to the President to exclude part two from article 15. Please vote. With one hand, Oleg, work with one. [[13:33:22]] For 388 So is another proposal from the President: delete part two of article 16. Please vote. [[13:33:46]] For 400. So we counted it all. I am voting on the adoption of the entire Law, taking into account all the President's proposals that we have supported "On the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine". Registration number 0834. Please vote. [[13:34:21]] For 406 Thus, fellow believers, we have the opportunity to say that the Law will necessarily be signed. The issue is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Social Protection of Children of Orphans and Children Deprived of Parental Care, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 6 April of this year. Registration number 0806. Reported to the Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u138	Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! "To amend certain Ukrainian laws on social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care", which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 March 2006, cannot be signed by the President on the following. First, the amendments proposed by law to article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act are intended to introduce compulsory life and health insurance for orphans and children deprived of parental care from 1 January 2007. In doing so, the term during which the names will be subject to compulsory insurance is not defined by law. It should be noted that according to the article of the First Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care, the graduates of orphanages, children deprived of parental care are considered to have been persons who were in full state care in an orphanage for orphans and children deprived of parental care and have completed their stay in a designated institution in connection with the completion of their studies. Then, the persons mentioned will be subject to compulsory insurance, regardless of the time of their completion. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, under the insurance of such graduates under 23 years of age, or before they complete their studies in higher education institutions, the implementation of this position will require additional funding of more than 14.2 million dollars. In the case of graduates under 35 years of age, the additional cost would be 56.6 million dollars. However, contrary to the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the expenditure to be reduced or the source of additional income to cover the increase in expenditure is not determined. Taking into account what has been said, paragraph 2 of article 1 of section 1 of the Act is proposed to supplement the sentence with the following sentence: “At the same time, the term of such insurance shall be no more than 1 year”. Second, the law proposes the establishment of full state security for orphans and children deprived of parental care, paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 2, paragraph 5, of Chapter 1. It should be noted that persons of orphans, children deprived of parental care, are defined as persons between the ages of 18 and 23. They are under the age of 18 years, who died or died under the age of 18 parents and those who were taken into custody of children deprived of parental care. Thus, the stated provision of the law that is being considered refers to effective persons who can work and support not only themselves but also their families. Under these circumstances, the setting up of full - scale government provisions for such persons is not appropriate. These changes are also proposed to extend the period during which persons from the number of orphans and children deprived of parental care will have the right to full state security in educational institutions before they complete their respective educational institutions. This approach is not in line with the above rule of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In this connection, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of article 2, paragraph 5, of Section 1, of the Law are proposed to be deleted. Appropriately, it is proposed to delete the words “and persons out of number ” in paragraph 5 and paragraph 5 of article 2, paragraph 4, of section 1 of the law. Thirdly, paragraph 5 of article 2 of the Act establishes that the cost of the rehabilitation of orphans and children, deprived of parental care and persons of their number should be allocated to the State, local budgets, the cost of enterprises, the Social Insurance Fund, temporary loss of employment and other sources not prohibited by legislation. This is not in line with article 20 of the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial, at which the social insurance fund costs with temporary loss of employment can be directed towards payment of assistance, financing of sanatorium and rehabilitation of only insured persons and members of their families. In view of this, it is proposed in article 11, paragraph 5, of the second chapter of the first law to exclude the word “Temporary Social Insurance Fund”. Fourth. The law that came with the signature stipulates that until graduates of orphanages and children deprived of parental care are employed in the State Employment Service, such as those seeking employment, housing, and community services are paid by the employment and social protection agencies. Without denying the need for State support to such categories of persons, it should be noted that setting preferences for them would not facilitate their employment, but could lead to abuse of the rights conferred on them. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if such persons were to be released from the payment of housing and utility services, the need for additional budget costs would amount to about 650 dollars per person per year. The source of such expenditure is not defined by law. In addition, it should be borne in mind that there is no order according to which the payment of rent and public services was made by the labour and social protection agencies. In view of the foregoing, paragraph 13 of article 13 of the second chapter of the first law proposes that the sentences be supplemented by such a content. “The order and time limits for the release of the listed persons from housing and municipal services are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, the period of exemption should be no more than one year. And five. The Act proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care by article 39 on the release of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and persons deprived of their salaries for education in state municipal educational institutions of all levels. In this regard, it should be noted that the free preschool, full general, vocational and technical, higher education in public and municipal institutions is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Citizens have the right to receive free higher education in public and municipal educational institutions on the competitive basis of article 53. The state provides the benefits for admission to state and municipal vocational and technical institutions for orphans, children deprived of parental care and other categories of children who need social protection if they have sufficient training. In view of this, paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 17 of the second chapter of the first law are proposed to be deleted. Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u139	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Any questions? Come on, sign up. Please, five minutes, Kozub. He's handing it over to Sukhoma. Please, Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I would suggest that these comments by the President of Ukraine be distributed to those children’s homes where the President and members of his family go, delivering gifts of all kinds. I'm interested in the minister's position. Look at the fifth amendment, I am one of the authors of this bill. We wrote about children who are orphans being able to study in higher education institutions for free. Why does the President propose to throw out this standard? Do we have that article 53 of the Constitution has been annulled? But all children have the right to free education. And we wanted him to be able to study at a school for free because he's an orphan child. If these other changes here are observations and changes, some suggestions, I wonder why this paragraph should be thrown out altogether. Your position as minister, please, you're a profile minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u141	Yes, thank you for asking. And let me start by saying that today, in the country, a program is being implemented, in general, a change in the system of protection of the rights of an orphan child, a child, a child without parental care. And today, for example, the priorities for giving gifts are not the most important. Today the system changes in general, like every child orphan, every child deprived of parental care, guaranteed its constitutional right, and the right guaranteed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child to Develop It in the Family. As far as you're concerned. I repeat that in this case, article 53 of the Constitution guarantees free and free education in public and municipal educational institutions. And article 19 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act also regulates the welfare conditions for orphans and children deprived of parental care regarding their education. So in this case, we see duplicates of existing articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u142	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u143	Please give the floor to the national deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u144	Oleg Lazko. But he probably is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u145	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yuri Alexiovich! Of course, you know that in the Constitution everything written almost nothing in our country is being done. Including the guarantee of free education for children. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that orphans and children deprived of parental care are special children who are more vulnerable than those children who live in a normal family. And now I have a question for you. So you're offering insurance for a year after you're done with the facility, 16 years old, 17 years old, and then nothing. Social services pay for a year from 16 to 17, but when a child is 17 years old, it's just molding. How, then, can he be left without the help of the State at 17 years of age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. And once again, in this case, children who are orphans, children who are deprived of parental communication, who are not left behind by the State, have a number of state aids. And today the system is changing, in a way that up to the age of 18, regardless of the form of maintenance, development and stay in a facility, whether in a foster home or in a family-type children's home, so the child is the owner of the funds that are allocated by the state -- it's a so-called project that's being implemented today, money is going after the child. Moreover, most importantly today the task, I repeat, is to do so again, and I am convinced that during the ten years of the program, it will be that every child will be raised in the family, provided that, under different circumstances, she has lost her parents. And these problems, which are today both with the development of the child and with its moral psychological state, after the end or the release of the institution, are simply not going to happen. Therefore, in this case, the President proposes to introduce this standard per year, since the Law does not provide either a system or sources from which the standard is to be implemented and after a year to make a possibly different modified decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u147	Vladimir Slobodanuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u148	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Catherine Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u149	Thank you. I certainly don't envy the ministers who stand on the stand and present the President's proposals, because Yuri Alexiyovich, if you don't blame the soul, the ministry and the heart and soul of the year ago supported this bill and we talked to all of you here in this sessional room that it is essential. But I want to ask you a question. You know, problems for orphans, I've met in a number of regions, they fit. Unavailability of housing, now external testing is not even possible to see this orphan child, because she will never learn in her life. Of course, there must be free education and housing, and so forth. Yuri Alexiyovich, please don't excite us, and I think we'll do the right thing and we'll do the right thing if we beat the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u150	Thank you, Catherine Seed, for your question. Because we really stand in the position that every child of an orphan, a child deprived of parental care, is the kind of category that is the priority in any state issue. Because for such a child, the father and mother today are the state, and the national MPs, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the heads of the district administrations, the district heads, the village heads are their parents, and they are their mothers, who are obliged to do everything they can to ensure that such a child does not feel any limitations in his life. And in this case, the President is not talking about the repeal of this law, but he is simply making a number of amendments and a number of changes that would allow this law to work, to be real to implementation, rather than being declarant and such that the state budget and state today are not fully capable of implementing, and the local authorities are not capable of doing so. So once again, I ask the people's deputies to support the President's proposals for this law to enter into force and be implemented in full, rather than remaining a declarative law that is not being implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u151	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism Committee, Mikola Tomenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that here, I don't think there are two points of view as to the need to support orphans or children deprived of parental care. The discussion over the last year referred to the following: the position of the President and the government is: they are in favour of such assistance, but they believe that in order to understand how the mechanism will work, and the state insurance procedure will be introduced for 1 year, and by analysing how much costs, and what mechanisms do they need to increase these children in order to, let's say, state insurance? And accordingly, with regard to the provision of free utility services for orphans' graduates, this procedure will also be determined by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers to do it for a year, and then analyze and see whether to continue this procedure. When we debated the committee, we came out of the next one. Since the position of the President and the government is that they today justify helping orphans and children deprived of parental care for a year, the committee has supported the position of executive authority. At the same time, I would like to inform our faction's proposal that we believe that this is a realistic approach, if we move away from a fair approach, we would have to veto the President and secure the state insurance of such children not over a year, but during the needs they have and, let's say, children who are now, let's say, entered a university and after the university did not work, until the time of employment to provide them with free, free of charge, the opportunity to pay for community services. As is always the case with financial discussions. Today, we have children who are learning about 10,000. And I think the Supreme Council needs to decide, but our faction thinks it's like money that can be found and so I think it depends on the decision of the session room. I propose putting on a veto if the veto is not over, then supporting the President and the government, and at least a year to provide these children with state insurance and a free payment of municipal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u153	Thank you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. But I would ask you to report the committee's decision, and then you can say your personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u154	That's what I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u155	Okay. Is there a question? None. Have a seat, please. Is there no need to discuss it? Yes. Sign up for the faction. Please, Baby. Get ready, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u156	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I want to be honest with you that children who are orphans and children who are deprived of parental communication are a special category of children. They don’t live in a family, they don’t have parents, and few people love them for a little exception. Therefore, if we are with you, the State, not supporting these children, no one will help them. What does the President propose? On the one hand, according to Pauline, the president seems to support these children but for one year. Let's hypothetically imagine the situation. A 16-year-old is graduating from boarding school, and under 17 years of age, the state looks like she's going through it, and at 17 years of age, the state has forgotten. And no one needs this child. And he goes either singing or going to jail or somewhere else because no one will help him. That's why we can't accept the President's proposal. An orphan child or deprived of parental support is at least 23 years old, at least until graduation. That is, the bill's authors say, and the child should be insured, and it should be able to be on full state-run security before finishing school and paying for utilities. So all of this has to be done. We give these children a chance, they've been deprived of that chance by God, and we're restoring them the opportunity to do so in their lives. And, Yuri Alexiyovich, fear God, ride around the boarding schools, see how those kids live there, and then you'll be here talking about what we're gonna do for a year. And then what do they do? I call on the Supreme Council to support and overcome the President's veto. Children need to be supported. I call on the factions of the region, I know there are children and boarding schools here, and I call on everyone who cares about supporting this bill. Children need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u157	Thank you. But I do have a question. Your leader keeps saying that she will support all the President's proposals. Here you go against it. Please, Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u158	You'll get the replica when we vote. It's not a comment, it's a question. Behave yourself. Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I rarely go to this rostrum, but today, when I listened to our distinguished minister, who himself does a great deal for orphans, I was very ashamed of the President of Ukraine. I like to look at his royals, but it hurts me to look at the millions of orphans that we want to take away today's last chance to adapt to life in that society. Let's take the first steps here and give up some of our own, whether it's the benefits or the wages, and help the President protect the children, help him know the funds. Maybe we don't buy an antique expensive thing, an antique thing, you know, a vessel or something, and we're going to keep the kids safe. We cannot allow today to make the decision that the minister here advocated for young people and families. I urge you, I ask you all here to concentrate our efforts and unite here and the opposition, the ruling coalition, and to protect our children, whose millions in the streets are asking for alms and the kings in gold are bathing. Thank you. And lately, I've been handing over Myrrhichka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u160	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko continues. To prepare for the Klukkov Jury. You've turned off his time for nothing. Okay. Give me a minute and a half. Please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u161	Not included.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u162	Enabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u163	It's on. Dear colleagues, I am myself a graduate of boarding school. And believe me, now there are a lot of people in this room, imagine that you're going to release your child at the age of 18 and you're going to have no support at all. Just imagine what the authors are offering: At least before the school is finished, help the children. I'm saying that this is, well, a good step on the part of the government, which, at least for a year, and the President, he's suggesting that we fix it. But it'll be a shame to all of us if we don't go back to that question and that 16 million, as I hear it, we won't find it for a year. I can now urge you to overcome the veto because the government is proposing, and we are actually supporting it, but this is an extraordinary problem that we have no right to leave out of our sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u164	Please, Lilia Grigorovich of the faction “Our Ukraine”. And a faction of Communists insists, the Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u165	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Children of Ukraine and the Honourable Ukrainian Community! As a member of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, I would like to say today: Oh, how shameful and worthless the political trade in the interests of children today is, and with the call on God! But people are good, but really fear God, because until President Viktor Yushchenko took into serious custody the rights of children: and eight and a half thousand dollars, and seven percent more children were born this year -- and here some wanted to take the money for the children's birth, there was no one in Ukraine to do the rights of children, and they were all by our siders and orphans. That's what I'm talking about for the wise journalists who are here to tell you about some carnivores. All children in Ukraine were orphans, and I say this as a member of the fourth vocation working in Parliament. At the same time, I would like to stress the following. The thing is, because it's become very fashionable and popular today, I would actually be very happy: let this government, where the most billionaire oligarchs, fall down and fund everything to the full, and that would be great. But by building up the protection of children by law, let us take them seriously. And for God's sake, we have to insure the university graduates, but not until death, or retirement, but just a year after the U.S.C.'s end, because then we're gonna have to cover them all, not drag this period 30, 40, or 50 years. Yes, isn't it? Yes. Next, I'm co-author of the Child Protection Act, where it's about in article 19, that orphans don't just go on quota, but they learn for free, and the 53rd article of the Constitution just confirms that. If we're going to say oil again, we can say that. But you don't have to figure out the interests of the kids. Let's protect them with specific legislative rules, because that way we can sing every day those or other legislative acts like pools, telling them what's in that legislative act, in the next one. One more thing: should we give preference to orphans who have not been employed? Oh, my God, I do, but let's do it in order: how do we do it through the Cabinet of Ministers? Let's see in a year, maybe they'll work. And, literally, at the end of the day, orphans who don't work after 18 years need preferences, but if they're employed, or they're trained in VUZ, and the law protects them, because they're learning in state form, of course they have it all. So let us protect children, not on political grounds, but in truth, as the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenko did. See if the offices of the powerful parties are listed in their list of caregivers. But nobody does anything but Victor Andryovich. And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u167	With one hand, he takes care of the orphans, and with the other, we promise the Law that protects these, in fact, disadvantaged children. And I don't have to yell and scream, because you all voted for this law. Where is your honor, and when were you honest in that case? Dear colleagues, I want to address all of you, here in half an hour we've told you that we have orphans, but they have everything, they learn, they have a lot of money. They may be healed in Turkey, the Arab Emirates, and so forth. I think, Lord God, but no child of an orphan has ever heard this conversation, this sanctification over this very problem. It's not easy for me, it doesn't need to be lulled. I started my work at the Herson Children’s House. And I'm talking to everyone. Before pressing the button, let's think about it, when I was 19, I saw baby eyes come up to you and say, "Maybe we'll call you Mom, because we don't know what Mom is." I'm ashamed of the Ukrainian people's deputies, for the women's representatives who are now smitten from this rostrum, you know, for the defenseless, for the children of orphans. I don't get it. Can you love only your children? And those children who are not even state or state, do we not need them? And that's why I think we're going to show national wisdom, and we're going to give our voices to orphans, that the Supreme Council, that Ukraine can at least a little bit replace these children with the disadvantaged mother and father. They have no hope but you. And that's why I'm really asking you to remember the Great Homeland War. The war is over. Every child of an orphan, in every neighborhood, had a child’s home, every child of an orphan continued to study, was employed, received help. And that's why I think we're going to do absolutely wisely, in a parental way, in a human way, and as real statesmen. And I think our vote is now really going to show that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a higher legislature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, let's turn our bubbling applause into a successful vote. That's the first one. Secondly, I ask that you pay attention to the final position of this bill. It is proposed to enter into force on January 1, 2008. That is, we postpone it for a year according to the current budget legislation and so on. It's not about 2007, it's about 2008. With this in mind, I will act as required by the Rules. First, I'm going to put the President's motion to the vote. The President's proposals are for a vote. You've already spoken. I'm voting on the President's first proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:07:51]] For-43 I bet on the vote of the President's second sentence, in paragraph 5 of article 2, paragraph 2, of chapter 1, the words “and persons of their number” should be deleted. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:08:15]] For-41 The offer is not supported. The third sentence of the President is put to the vote, paragraph 5 of article 2, paragraph 4, of chapter 1. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:08:39]] For-46 The offer is not supported. The President’s fourth proposal, paragraphs 2 and 4 of article 2, paragraph 5, of chapter 1, is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:09:03]] For-49 The offer is not supported. The President's fifth proposal, in paragraph 5 of paragraph 11 of section 2 of the first sentence of “the social insurance fund from temporary loss of employment”, to exclude. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:09:32]] For-58 Not supported. The President's sixth proposal. Paragraph 13, paragraph 13, of the second chapter, to complete the sentence of the sentence “the order and terms of release of the persons noted from the apartment’s salaries and salaries for municipal services are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, the period of exemption from payment shall be no more than one year.” I'd like to make up my mind. I've gone on for a long time, and I've taken into account the principle of the position of BUT. [[14:10:09]] For-58 Thank you. 58. I thank you for the reminder that I continued, and the meeting was resumed. The President's seventh proposal. Paragraph 2, paragraph 17, of the second chapter, delete. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:41]] For-55 Not supported. Although all of these are proposals from the profile committee that was reported here. Thus, honourable colleagues, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules, if we have rejected all the President's proposals, we can only adopt the law if it takes at least two thirds of the votes from the constitutional composition, that is to say at least 300 votes. I'm voting for adoption in general, i.e. by overcoming the veto. Dear colleagues! Don't shout. What procedure? Once again, I would like you to read 130 articles of the Rules, which says that if none of the President's proposals are supported, the law must be adopted. In order to receive at least 300 votes, that is, the veto. Here's the proposition I'm putting to the vote. Since 2008, we can't break it. I stress once again the vote "since 1 January 2008". And with that amendment, I'm voting on acceptance as a whole. That is, by overcoming the veto of the Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, of 1 January 2008. Please vote [[14:12:36]] For 390 By factions, please: Region Party - 183, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 113, Our Ukraine - 39, Socialists - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 4. I remind you once again we voted on January 1, 2008. Thank you. At this morning's meeting. The President has no right to veto because he received 390 votes. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is closed, recess until 4:00.
