ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council, representatives of the media! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:04:24]] There are 438 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today, dear colleagues, we celebrate the 15th anniversary of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. There are, if I'm not mistaken, eight of us. Today, in our composition of the Supreme Council, if I'm not mistaken, he's working around seven representatives of the prosecutor's office. Let us welcome them with this day, wish them and in their person to all the prosecutors' staff to contribute to the implementation of the laws that we are enacting with you. [[Applause]] And today is the 15th anniversary of the referendum on Ukraine's Independence. Let us also welcome one another with this festival. The announcements will be at 1:00. Anyone who wants to make a statement will come forward at 1:00. Today, according to Article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have time to announce parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the President of Ukraine on the appropriateness of being a representative of the President in the Supreme Council of Roman Zvarič in connection with his anticonstitutional statements that conflict with the position of the President. I'm betting on a vote to support the question. [[10:06:22]] For 215 A decision has been made. I now put to the vote the proposal to make a request to the President. It takes 226 votes. [[10:06:46]] For 240 Decision taken. The request is being sent. Mr. KRUKA's Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transparency of the budgetary process. Mr. KRUKA’S Jury to the Prime Minister for the avoidance of interference with the economic activities of the operators. Mr Mikoli SIVULSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for Ignorance of Deputy Finance Minister Tetjana Jefimenko's request for information on the specific indicators of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the State Budget 2006 Act. Mr. Mikoli Komara to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Repayment of Debt Before the Open Shareholder Society “Costantin's Automobile Company - 1149,” in the city of Constantine's Donetsk Region. Mikli SIVULSKI to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Protection of the First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Vadim Kaiserman, information on the amount of tax compensation for the added value in the area of Ukraine. Katerina SAMOLIK to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr TABAKNIK on the question of dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary statement of 18 October 2006 on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation for the introduction of the course “Christian Ethics in Ukrainian Culture” in the first classes of the general educational institutions of Kiev. Mr. Mikoli Komara to Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dmitr TABAKNIK, on the compatibility of the Ministry's actions with the problems of providing disabled people with special vehicles. John BONDARCHUKA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of July 17, 2006, No 999 “On the Approval of the Procedure for the Provision of Disabled Persons by Car”. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the violation of the requirements of legislation during the alienation of the property of military city No. 1 of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in the city of Poltava and the transfer to the lease of its land. Eugene MARMAZOVA to the Attorney General on the violation by the Prosecutor's Office of the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on dissatisfaction with replies to parliamentary appeals regarding violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizen Jacob I.A. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Administration, on the application of measures to halt the illegal activities of the officers of the Tax Police of the State Tax Administration in the Winnitz region to the group of the Haisinian Spirit Plant. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for refusing to respond to a parliamentary appeal to violate labour law requirements regarding the registration of a professional organization by the administration of the Kharkiv National University of Art, Kotlarevski. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the seizure and partial destruction by a group of unknown persons for the participation and direct approval of the management of the Delhi District Office of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the city of Kyiv of a nonresidential building, which is private property. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Education and Science on the right to education in the national language and the need to expand the education network in Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. Jaroslava Fedorčuka to the Ministry of Defence concerning the granting of a permit for the alienation of property of the State Enterprise “Central Military Sanatorium of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine “Yaltinski” with further sale at a substantially low cost. Deputies' groups to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the repayment of the debt for the natural gas of the utility “Vehicle Supply”. [[Corsacov, Antemuk, Janukovich, and others Total 6 deputies]] Arnold RADIO to the Kiev City Head on the difference between the illegal decisions of Kievrada since May 29, 2003, No. 486-2/646, and February 12, 2004, No. 59/1269 on the allocation of land for housing. Roman ZABZALJECK to the city’s head for failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal about violations of citizens’ rights by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Teams of deputies to the Director-General of the State Railway Administration of the Cruise Station on the unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary appeal and ensuring participation in the meetings of the commission on the implementation of the “Universal” tariff policy. [[KICZEL, Petrenko, Biruk, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Kuzmin on the unsatisfactory response of military prosecutor Lejeshev to the parliamentary appeal on the legality of the closure of the criminal case on the fact of the sale of property by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. [[KYSELOV, GRACH, BLACKMORE]] These are all those parliamentary requests that we have come up with in accordance with the rules set out in the Rules. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The Head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is listening to information on the participation of the delegation in the autumn session of the Assembly from 17 to 19 November 2006. Reported to the head of the permanent delegation, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u2	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine THE 21st century is a century of globalization, a post-industrial era. The security problems in the political, social, economic and humanitarian sense, the security problems of each country's development, are becoming imperative and urgent. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is the legal heir to the historic Helsinki covenants, which have experienced considerable political evolution, and today the world faces complex challenges to the security of human development. Our delegation represents the Supreme Council at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the first year. The delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has always worked actively, constructively and productively. The delegation was headed by the leaders of the Supreme Council, representatives of our various committees. According to work plans, the so - called autumn session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe took place between 17 and 20 November. This autumn session showed whether the most important political outcome for this organization of the United Nations system is the transition and expansion of the zone of activity of this international organization, which operated in the zone from Leningrad to Vancouver, as previously said, to a global scale. The principle of “the safety of everyone for the safety of everyone” was also confirmed. That is, a special emphasis has been put on solving the immediate problems of collective security over and over again. Unfortunately, this same session showed that there is a sinister tendency to move away from the principles of the Helsinki Treaties and to undermine these holy principles for each democratic country, as evidenced by the so - called frozen conflicts in Georgia, Azerbaijan, Serbia, and many other countries. The programme of the autumn session of the OSCE PA included three main elements. This is an international parliamentary conference and migration, integration and intercultural dialogue of peoples, the role of security organization, cooperation in Europe. The second was the session of the Fourth Mediterranean Forum, which would have to be discussed in particular. And the third. A permanent committee of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly was held, at which meeting was confirmed. by applause of the announcement that the next session, the annual session of the Parliamentary Assembly will be held in Kiev, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 4 to 10 July next year. The autumn session of the Assembly took place in conditions where the delegation, the permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was in a new composition, except that the Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation, the First Deputy Head of the Delegation, the Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, the Alekseiev Company faction, the Zubov BUT faction and the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Activities of Yushchenko, and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and the Law Protection Committee of Lechenko. The delegation worked together, professionally, and had every opportunity to express its views on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has consistently stood up for the Supreme Council's position on addressing the problems of illegal migration, which are particularly acute for Ukraine, as well as the need to find optimal and operational solutions to the problems of illegal migration not only at national level but also at global level. Members of the delegation constantly held the view that the solution to the growing problems of illegal migration had a solution to the way in which intercultural dialogues belonging to the main tasks of all European countries, including Ukraine, were handled. The issue of illegal immigration is becoming more relevant to Ukraine because our country has, unfortunately, become a country for illegal migrants and a transit country in the western direction. This creates difficulties in Ukraine’s relations with neighbours, countries of the European Union, and countries of Europe. This leads to new negative phenomena that have a direct impact on the lives of Ukrainian people both in Ukraine and in the lives of our migrants abroad. In recent years, there has been an increase in the rate of drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, weapons, and the spread of infectious diseases in our country — AIDS, HIV, and so on, and tuberculosis. In discussions with OSCE parliamentarians, representatives of the Ukrainian delegation have repeatedly stressed the acute problem of organization, the effective organization of cooperation in reducing the volume of illegal migrants, and the creation of a system of assistance for individuals who for some reason leave their countries in search of a better destiny. The position of the delegation of Ukraine regarding the fact that social migration processes and their related negative effects are a social phenomenon that requires a comprehensive approach at the global international level, in fact supported by other members of the Assembly. Ukrainian Parliamentarians drew the attention of members of the Assembly to the fact that the consequences of illegal migration, such as increased pressure on the state budget, problems of public administration caused by the activities of criminal groups of traffickers and smugglers, and the hiding of illegal persons at risk of national international security. During the discussions on the solution of the problems of multinational societies, members of the permanent delegation of Ukraine reported on the current situation and protection of national minorities in our country. The main themes of the fourth Mediterranean Forum were the OSCE Mediterranean Forum and the situation in the Middle East. Sadly, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe migrates from Europe to Africa and the Middle East. Unfortunately, this is explained by the smell of oil and gas and other interests, usually in the European Union. And we have to make sure that this organization pays more attention to Eastern Europe, and we've asked questions about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u4	and dedicated to the problems of Eastern Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u5	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Sasa's microphone. Sass microphone, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 29 of the Rules, I must make a note to you, namely, in accordance with article 27 of the Rules, which sets out the responsibilities of the presiding officer at the plenary session, the chairman of the plenary meeting must inform you after the registration, who is absent from the plenary for good reasons. This rule of the Rules, your duty as presiding officer, is not constantly being fulfilled. I'm asking you to comply with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u7	Thank you for your observation. A draft Decision amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, registration number 2627, is under consideration. Dear colleagues! You know, we owe the government and we owe it to the government to review the 2007 State Budget. Therefore, in view of the need to expedite the consideration of the matter, since we are working on committees next plenary week, another plenary session is needed. Therefore, I suggest to your mind the following decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call: “The Supreme Council decides: to change the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 July 2006 on Parliament’s work in December 2006, with a view to the holding of 6 December plenary sessions” to consider both the State Budget and the Soviet laws that we have yet to consider. Please vote. [[10:25:15]] For 241 Decision taken. I mean, on December 6, we work with you in session mode. The factions, please. Region Party – 178, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 4, Our Ukraine – 4, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. Next question. Draft Decision on the Liberation of Tarasius B.I. from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Now. Here, my fellow Members, we have two draft decrees of 2629 made by the people's deputies and 2629-1 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll remind you that when we heard the report of the two ministers, we decided that the committees of profile for this plenary week, which is ending today, had made the relevant draft regulations. I am addressing, my fellow Members, your attention that the National Security and Defence Committee has ignored the decision of the Supreme Council and failed to implement it, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered it at its meeting, this is a matter of question, and has instructed a group of deputies to prepare a draft decision that has been prepared and submitted for your consideration. Unfortunately, there is no such procedure. Ask Sass. But sign up, five minutes from the factions. There's no procedure, there's no procedure! Take five minutes off the procedure, we'll talk. Ask Sass, he'll tell you what he's got. There's a guaranteed faction's right to speak if she wants to say something. That's what we're going to use. Yes, please, in one minute, five minutes. Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I want to remind you that procedure is always. And if it's not in the Head's mouth, it's the end of democracy and the beginning of legal and political seduction. That's why there's a procedure. And it needs to be followed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reporter also wrote down is unknown to anyone under this decision, why the Committee on State Building Issues, which has nothing to do with this. For some reason, the National Security and Defence Committee failed to review or implement, not to consider. There are deadlines set by the procedure for this consideration. But above all, Adam Ivanovich, who is the subject of the legislative initiative? Please tell me, why does anyone else make decisions on the President of Ukraine's quota? The Supreme Council has no right to consider this decision, and whoever does not understand it, let him look into the Constitution and, if not, into the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers signed by Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u9	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u10	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I understand that, if you'll excuse me, Baba Yaga will always be against it, but, nevertheless, we have a Prime Minister's appointment today, and we have a decision today that we have entrusted to the committee of profile and that has not been implemented. There is a draft decision of the Supreme Council, and that is why we have every reason to conclude today with a consideration of the problem that has become excessively prolonged. I am absolutely convinced that those people who are given undue attention are hardly worthy of such close attention by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have a lot of other urgent issues. So I suggest you make a decision on this. Before the draft decision that we have on our hands. This is draft regulation 2629-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u11	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I have two rulings of the Supreme Council on my hands. Against one decision, I take it, he firmly denies "Our Ukraine" -- the release of Tarasyuk. But there is another decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which makes the "ours" themselves, to approve the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Tarasyuk, something to reward and send there. So I don't understand, so are you going to consider this question or not? Regarding the reading of the Constitution. Dear friends and angry friends and damned friends! See article 113 of the Ukrainian Act “On Making Changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. ” Where did you hear that word "the President's quota"? but there is no political party called the President of Ukraine Yushchenko. It is his right to submit the nominations of specific ministers, and we respect that right with respect, respect and respect. But Tarasyuk, like the others appointed by our decree, 1254. There was a Tarasuk in this list, so we have the right to take it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u15	Yes, please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u17	Turkinov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to the presiding officer. Adam Ivanovich, please tell you that according to the Constitution, it is the President and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defense who is proposing. It's two ministries that have special status. It is because the President is the Supreme Commander and he is also responsible for the Constitution for international relations, international affairs, foreign policy, more specifically. I want to ask you as a person who joins the Anti-Crist Coalition. Were there any consultations with the President? And what is the position of the President on this issue? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, thoughts were expressed. Let me take a few minutes of your time, because here. Oh, I'm sorry, yes, Bondarchuk. Sorry, Bonarczuk Ivan, there's a minute. I didn't see it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, while we are delaying our consideration of the matter, we are consciously supportive of the tensions in society. So we need to understand that the government team should be consolidated, who would have any quota and in what order would not have appointed any minister. And we understand very well that, according to the Constitution, the President has the right to make an appointment proposal, but we, the Supreme Council, have the right to question the President's release of a minister. So we have to help the President decide eventually. I think he's expecting a signal like this from us. So let's vote and make a decision, and we'll take that down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a call to the presiding officer. Attention was paid to the Constitution and so forth. I'll allow you to quote the Constitution. Be careful that we do not later have it, or if we have a Constitution with us, take a look. Article 85 of the Constitution: “The powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include: the appointment of the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Head of the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee of Television and Radio Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, the release of persons from office, the decision on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. I mean, as you've pointed out, there's no reference to the fact that the dismissal of the listed persons is a matter of whether or not. This is one, the 106th article, the 106th article of the Constitution, which speaks of the President of Ukraine, the 106th article: the President of Ukraine, paragraph 10, introduces to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment, once again, the appointment of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. This is about the fact that there is no appointment or release. And here's the 14th article. The 14th paragraph of this 106th article says that the President of Ukraine is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appointment and discharge from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Once again, in article 106, the President's right to apply for the release of the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not recorded. At the time, what is involved in the Security Service is directly indicated as being both assigned and released. So please, here we adhere to the Constitution, because there's no Constitution because there's no reference in the Constitution. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. I'm sorry. We can't discuss this right now. There was a question for the chairman. All the rest of the comments can be made by the Constitutional Court, all the rest of the Constitutional Court can give. We exchanged at the level, at the level of the chairman's comments and responses. Dear colleagues, I repeat, once again, the statement of recess will be after consideration of the matter, because it has been announced before consideration. It's announced for consideration. Let's do this, let's do this wisely. Who is responsible for stopping the discussion? No need, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I turn to the right and left of the session room. Yuri Bogdanovich, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I would like to support my suggestion that, contrary to the Rules, two factions, despite the fact that the issue has already been declared for consideration, we should announce a 30-minute recess. Please vote. Please vote! Vote please! [[10:36:29]] For-167 Not accepted. We'll discuss the issue, then we'll call it a break. Dear colleagues, when the question is raised, can not be declared recesses. That's why I wanted to use it. Okay, do you want to make a statement without interruption? Please. I put to the vote, please support my proposal: despite the fact that the question has been discussed, take a break at the request of two factions for 30 minutes. Please vote. It's a vote! The question does not stop. I've announced the subject. Because you read the Rules as you should, not as you wish! [[10:38:16]] For 392 A break of 30 minutes to 11 hours is announced for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, please sit down. We'll continue, I think, quietly further down. Yes, please, who's the faction? Kowal? Please. Yes, have a seat, please. Kowal. You can go to the rostrum, Viacheslav. From the factions that took the break, please. Let's divide, please. One-and-a-half minutes Kowalya, one-and-a-half Turkish. Please, three minutes in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u23	National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Statement by the faction “Our Ukraine”. With regard to the attempt on the part of the foreign minister, Tarasius Boris Ivanovich. The “Our Ukraine” faction appreciates the actions of the anti-crisis coalition regarding the release of the Ukrainian Foreign Minister Boris Tarasyuk as being aimed at discrediting ministers appointed to the government in accordance with the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine, such as targeted political persecution and an attempt to implement the foreign policy course of the State. The draft decision to liberate Boris Tarasyuk is nothing more than a political provocation aimed at usurping power in Ukraine. Probably an anti-crisis coalition lives on illusions that government ministers should run the pre-election programs of the Party of Regions and Communists, some of whose positions are not only left to common sense, but also openly anti-government and unconstitutional. Decision-making today is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, since the liberation of Ukraine’s foreign minister can take place only with the submission of the President of Ukraine. Moreover, such a decision is contrary to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations, since foreign and national security and defence committees have not prepared a draft ruling on the basis of a ministerial report, as entrusted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We claim that Foreign Minister Boris Tarasyuk acted and acted in accordance with current legislation, professionally implements the external course defined by the Head of State under the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation. We demand that the missing Ukrainian national deputies be announced in the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to avoid forging the vote. We claim that today's decision is unconstitutional, illegal. His acceptance, and we won't admit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u24	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by welcoming all of you and all of our citizens to the fact that 15 years ago there was a referendum in which Ukrainian citizens confirmed the legal dream of all Ukrainians living in an independent country. It's a big event, and I want us to applaud each other with it. [[Applause]] And the next. I would like to point out by the order of our faction that today, when the Anti-Crist Coalition does not consult the President, and, more faithfully, in principle, against his position, he wants to remove the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This completely crosses the universal, which has been signed by representatives of both our Ukraine and the “Regions” and Communists and Socialists. You're publicizing this universe today. Yesterday, when there was a vote in favour of Lucenka's resignation and the Prime Minister's submission did not receive the necessary number of votes, there was actually a complete destruction of the Anti-Crist Coalition and I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please, come on, come on. The thing is, once again, probably because of the break, because of some excitement, we forgot about what I've already said about these regulations. I remind you once again, we have two draft rulings on this issue. This is a decree number 2629 of the National Deputies, which, in carrying out the decision of the Supreme Council, prepared this draft decree according to the Minister’s report. And you remember, that's when we asked you to do it. It's done. And there's a draft decree number 2629-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's how we're going to be, we're going to be looking at them. To present the draft decree number 2629, I give the floor to which of the authors will it be? Acid? Please, Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, please. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Respectable compatriots! During the hearing of the Ukrainian Foreign Minister’s report, members of the anti - crisis coalition were unfortunately unable to bring to society even some of the major shortcomings of the Foreign Ministry’s work and its leader. So, as part of the time spent on the report, I'm going to give an analysis of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Frankly, we all hoped that the time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave the minister would be used to correct mistakes. But time has shown that we had nothing to look forward to. Because in the last days, and more precisely on 28 November, there was an unprecedented case when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine handed over a diplomatic note to Ambassador Taylor on the transfer of visiting terms, and more precisely the difference between the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America, I read: “In view of the disapproval of the relevant directives for this visit”. I mean, for the first time in Ukrainian history, the minister of the Ukrainian government complained about the head of the same government as a representative of a foreign state. This is unique not only for Ukraine but also for the whole world. At the same time, there is another precedent that does not exist in the world. If the leader of the party, who is part of the bloc, were to act as the key minister, claiming opposition to an active government and demanding its resignation. Our minister is clinging to the chair when the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in implementing Ukraine's strategic course for European integration: the gap between words and works, the neglect of European principles of organization of work, the ethics of communication with its employees, the disorganization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its foreign institutions, in particular, the significantly deteriorating relations with the Russian Federation, the accumulation of numerous economic problems that have arisen, primarily because of the deterioration of foreign economic relations, the fact that no dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actually lacking. There were no meetings of the Inter-Governmental Commission, as well as of the Interstate Commission of Yushchenko-Putin, Ukrainian-Russian relations were overloaded by verbal correspondence and inflamed by unilateral monologues. As a result of misinterpretation, the essence of processes in the European Union has been wasted for a year and a half. When the Ukrainian side tried to discuss the application of membership to the EES. There have also been violations in the processing of draft documents with relevant government structural other countries. For example, at the Kiev GUAM Summit on 22-23 May this year, the Ukrainian side initiated the development and implementation of the economic project “The Danube Energy Transport City”. This is the first serious project of this international association. The Ministry of Economics, together with the National Institute for International Security at the Security Council of Ukraine, developed a concept of a marked economic project that was to be aligned with the GUAM participating countries. So far, this has not been agreed upon. The concept was sent by countries, but the MIP didn't care about ensuring this reconciliation. It should also be repealed that, according to the Ukrainian law on international agreements, the responsible central authority of the executive branch should, within two months from the date of signature of the respective treaty, submit to the ICC proposals for ratification. In turn, according to Article 9, paragraphs 3 and 5 of this Law are to be submitted to the President or to the Cabinet within six months of the signing of the agreement. However, the analysis shows that the duration of individual international agreements requires internal procedures for an average of one to three years. I'm giving examples. The Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption, signed by Ukraine on January 27, 1999, came into force on July 1, 2002. by the nations. But Ukraine was ratified only on October 18, 2006! The artist is a ministur, MZS. The agreement between Ukraine and the EU on a security procedure for the exchange of information with limited access, signed on 13 June 2005, was submitted to the Supreme Council only on 2 November 2006. Resources are MSS. The European Convention for the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crime, signed on April 11, 2005, was signed only on March 1, 2006. And I could go on with that list. Unfortunately, there has been no intensive political dialogue at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with countries in Central Asia, except the Kyrgyz Republic, over the past year and a half, without positive developments in this direction, although Ukraine has a special economic interest in this region. In particular, the ICC was unable to agree on the dates for the meeting of the Joint International Ukrainian-Turkmen Commission on Economic Cooperation in Ukraine in Turkmenistan. At the same time, the political and economic influence of the Russian Federation, China, Turkey, Iran, France, and Germany increased markedly in this region that I was talking about. Due to the excessive concentration of efforts in the western direction alone, when they still could not be implemented, other perspectives were neglected, where Ukrainian national interests are essential: markets for the sale of our products, sources of investment, and the development of crops of useful mines. This was not the way to visit the Heads of State and Government to such promising regions as Latin America, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific countries. Artificially forcing the problem of Euro-Atlantic integration in conditions where there was no society ready to do so has led to unnecessary public opinion politicisation and an exacerbation of the socio-political situation in the country. It was in the direction of Euro-Atlantic integration that negative features, such as volunteerism of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were manifested in its entirety. Here are some examples. At a time when the Universal National Unity states that NATO's entry is only possible as a result of a national referendum, and the President of Ukraine, by the way, stresses that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has a personal opinion here, setting his terms as evidenced by this information from the Internet that he was trying to deny yesterday. It should also be noted that significant losses and incompetence in human resources have actually disorganized the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and overseas institutions. Because of unthinked human resources policies, the management of Ukraine’s foreign institutions has not been appointed for a long time by some 20 Ukrainian ambassadors. At the same time, the Ukrainian Embassy in key countries such as the United States, Russia, Britain, during the EU presidency, as well as Ukraine's permanent representation to the UN, during the General Assembly session, were without leaders. It is also unprecedented and unacceptable that there are no ambassadors in countries such as Sweden, Switzerland, and some others for nearly two years. The situation is no better in the MMS central apparatus, where key departments are freed and no managers are assigned. The Ministry does not comply with article 13 of the Law on Diplomatic Service. As a result, the shortcomings and calculations noted above in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have led to the loss of the avant-garde role of foreign policy and its active participation in state affairs. In view of the above, the leaders of the faction of the anti-crisis coalition appealed to Prime Minister Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich of Ukraine to submit to the coalition and the deputy factions in the Supreme Council for the release of Terasuk Boris Ivanovich from office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. This appeal to the Supreme Council from the Prime Minister came. We propose to support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to release Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich from office as Foreign Minister. As for the line here, which was completely unfairly said that we were ignoring the President, I'm giving an example that, before the FSB's leader was released, we were given a draft on his release yesterday, and he's already appointed head of the FNB. It's who provokes whom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u28	Thank you. There is no such position as a precise, not a leader, deputy secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. Any questions? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u29	Vladimir Vezevski, “Our Ukraine” faction. The Prime Minister's statement indicates that Tarasyuk's position has an impact on the government's negative activities. I have just this controversial idea: aren't the Prime Minister himself, his first trip to Brussels and his subsequent actions, or are they embarrassing our Ukraine, as opposed to how this fundamentally and clearly stands the position of our State of Tarasyuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u30	Dear colleague, this is from the example of the saying that the mouth is all in its feet. The whole company's not in the leg, but one soldier's in the leg. So you gave this example. I could give you dozens of examples today that Ukraine has lost billions only because the external economic situation that has been created in Ukraine today is largely dependent on how the foreign minister behaved. As a result of this activity, Ukraine has worsened its relationship with the Russian Federation today. As a result, we got gas instead of $50 per thousand meters of cubic gas, we already got $130. And that was very painful for our electorate. Today, public services have increased more than threefold as a result. So I would like to say that when a foreign minister is running a policy that causes opposition in society when it gets worse with countries, good neighbourly relations with countries that have always helped us, and these relationships have been good, such a minister is no place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u31	Vitaly Zablotsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u32	I have a few questions. First of all, do we rightly understand that Mr. Tarasyuk's work as foreign minister has caused a particular economic loss to our country? Second question. I understand there's some information about the loss of professional staff in the diplomatic corps. Is it so that in recent years a certain, fairly large number of people have left their posts in diplomatic service? And finally, thirdly, is there any explanation as to why there were no appointments of about 10 or as you said ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. I'm answering the first question. And to fellow workers who shouted at me on the matter: Give examples of where we lost! After Taraszuk's statement, I emphasize, on the Internet, I said this yesterday on a broadcast -- after saying that Ukraine would be in NATO in 2007-2008, why do you think the project "AN-70" stopped, where Ukraine had billions and billions? First of all, that's why. Ukraine, of course, lost its foreign economic policy. I could do it again in gas, but there are two more questions that I'm going to answer. I've got 23 executives, 23 executives have been released from foreign affairs departments when Tarasyuk came to serve as foreign minister. Up to now, 15 are out of work. You also asked how many ambassadors were not approved today. I called in mine. I say exactly, 13 ambassadors today are not appointed by Ukraine in other states. That's where the minister's job is. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u34	Olena Netecka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u35	Olena Netecka, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give my word to my colleague Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u36	I'm asking you to use Gunny Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u37	Dear reporter, we know that in world diplomatic practice it is accepted that the Foreign Minister arranges scandals. On the contrary, the scandals provoke one, the other. One such scandal was the breakup by the foreign minister of one of the most important items in the Ukraine’s European Council Secretary -General’s program. Do you know why the minister of foreign affairs was not adequately punished for his actions that harmed Ukraine and its international image? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The thing is, as you saw yesterday's broadcast, you saw the ministers acting out of the oranges: they're just acting brutally and candidly, that Gritsenko, that Tarasyuk, openly ignore moral standards even. I answer your question: yes, there was an attempt to punish him, but you can see that the President of Ukraine is completely covering up these ministers. And from here I have this, well, not a statement, but a thought like this: I don't think that the President of Ukraine, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko, can afford to take political responsibility for the actions of such ministers all the time. I think he should think that if something is wrong in the state, there are people who are guilty and should be punished for these mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, before you and I begin our consideration, there is another alternative bill under number 2632: "On the approval of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Tarasyuk". So we're going to listen to this project as an alternative. Is there a need, my dear colleagues, for you? I say again, we haven't moved in yet. Don't get excited. All your time, sit down, Jacob, sit down. The next bill, Decree 2629-1, is the submission of the Prime Minister at the initiative of the coalition. There's a handout in your hands, and we have the acting Prime Minister Anatoly Petrovich Klovev. Is there a need to report this project? None. Any questions? Any questions? All right, sign up. Andrew Petrovich, please come to the rostrum. Sign up for questions. All right, say it now, make a pass. Andrew Petrovich, please, on the rostrum. Sign up for questions. Five minutes. And, Andrew Petrovich, please, introduce the application, and then for five minutes, present the submission and five minutes of the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u40	“According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich from office abroad.” This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. So there is a coalition proposal, and according to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and section 4 of article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, a submission proposed by the coalition of the deputy faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call for the release of Tarasuk Boris Ivanovich from the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u41	Yes, thank you. Yes, they've already signed up for the questions. Please, Jakimenko, behind him is Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u42	I ask you to pass it on to Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Andrew Petrovich, well, I take it that the Ukrainian national deputy is no longer one of the convocations that politician Tarasjuk has chosen for himself. He would, in principle, if he had claimed opposition to this government, he would have to write his own application and resign. I don't understand this scream and the "ours" salutation. But I have a specific question for you: would you please tell me about these gas negotiations, about the trouble that was going on with talking to Russia about gas, and did you take a direct part in this, or did you assist Tarasuk, or did he have the authority to negotiate it? And one more thing, I know the complaints that have intensified lately from those export-oriented industries that have lost their full attention and support to their needs abroad. Please tell me, what cooperation do you and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have in the economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u44	Well, with regard to cooperation, we have a rather complex relationship on this issue, especially the economic bloc and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With regard to gas negotiations, you are well aware that, as early as January 2005, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs signed instructions for NAC management Naftegaz Ukraine and Mintopenergo, at the time Plačková-Ivchenko, which clearly stated that those contracts signed in 2004 on transit concerning gas supplies in Ukraine were desirable to be broken and signed. As a result, in August 2005, you are all well aware, the protocol signed by NAC Naftegaz Ukraine, where it was clearly stated that those items - 50 dollars per thousand cubic metres and a transit of gas per 100 kilometres - had been signed by NAC on 9 cents, so this paragraph breaks down, after which we entered a new phase of negotiations with Gazprom, as a result, you know that it is already 4 January 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u45	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u46	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Andrew Petrovich! I'm sorry, but I don't understand from your report exactly what motive does Prime Minister Yanukovich have for removing Boris Tarasyuk from his post? Besides, it seems to me that it would be much more logical if you were standing on the rostrum when Parliament is considering the decision made by the faction of "Our Ukraine" to hear the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Yuri Boyko, who offered the Ukrainian people an extremely high price for natural gas for the following year. And I would also like to ask you, do you realize that the general management of external political activity under the new even Constitution is carried out by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine? And the anti-crisis coalition, interfering with its exceptional authority, deliberately creates a new line of tension after you, including talking so many times about the need for national unity. Please explain the logic of these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u47	Based on logic and why I'm here right now. I'm in real duty today. That is why I represent the interests of the Cabinet of Ministers here and, of course, I speak here on the rostrum. Everything about gas supply and high price, when the issue is addressed in the Supreme Council, I will be on the rostrum as well, and I will answer the same questions. As far as national unity is concerned, I am still advocating that we have unity in our society. So that there is neither white, blue, or orange, nor red, nor blue, anyone. [[Applause]] Because we are one people, we are one nation. We must be together whether we like each other or not. But everything about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I'll tell you, it was the last drop. The last drop was when they simply took and signed, called for the return of the Ambassador of America to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and asked without knowing the Cabinet of Ministers without knowing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u48	Let me finish. Talk to me. Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u49	Without the Cabinet of Ministers, a note was signed without the Prime Minister's notice to transfer the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America. But that's what we got. The Cabinet of Ministers received last Saturday only a letter, an instruction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They were actually just starting to be considered on Monday, and there was a note on Tuesday. Although a week before the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America remained. I don't know what the rush was. But the view of all, virtually all members of the Cabinet of Ministers, was that this was specifically done to disrupt the Prime Minister's visit. I'd say a little rougher, but my upbringing here doesn't allow me to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Andrew Petrovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u52	And as I've already told you, dear fellows, there is another draft decree under number 2632, its authors are National Deputys Koval and Jacobin, on the approval of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Who will report? The quality? Please. Dear colleagues, this is an alternative project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u53	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, it must be symptomatic that today's meeting of the chairman, the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, began with a reminder of the professional festival of prosecutors, ignoring the only sovereign authority in our country, ignoring the Ukrainian people 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u54	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleague, you are an MP for the first time, so please speak on the subject. Today will be different. You'll say anything you want. please, Minister Tarasyuk, not the first deputy head of the Martinyuk Supreme Council. You have a report. So please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u55	Then we see a conscious attitude towards the higher state institutions, and a twirl, and a violation of the Rules, a violation of constitutional norms, and, by the way, the Constitution should be explained not by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, but by the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, the Foreign Minister Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. The Anti-Crist Coalition has done its utmost to discredit the individual ministers of our country, delaying, I stress, delaying the resignation procedure in a clear, clear situation where applications have been made and in accordance with all the procedures and rules of the Supreme Council, these issues have been dealt with on the committees of profile. For these ministers, our colleagues, who have been opposed by those parties, six parties that have created the “Our Ukraine” bloc have been under prolonged moral and psychological pressure. We are now seeing an accelerated, aberrant order to resolve the issue, particularly in violation of the Rules, and in violation of legislation. According to the Supreme Council Committees Act, a profile committee would have registered, draft regulations to consider at its meeting. On the day before yesterday, no decision had been made on the matter at the time of the Committee’s meeting in foreign affairs. The first ruling that had already been issued today, 2629 appeared yesterday, and the committee had not yet sat down and considered the matter. By the way, Adam Ivanovich, obviously wouldn't be able to retell, I don't know, from the third lips, information about the committee, but to give a word to the committee's head, Vitalia Jakovitch Šibk, to report on how this question about the Foreign Minister's report was discussed on the committee's profile and whether we had made any decisions, and what commission was finally given by the committee members unanimously to the committee head, not to renegotiate here in the anecdotal genre. Dear colleagues, first of all, we have to be aware that in the state of constitutional reform, from time to time, certain political and legal coalitions will arise and arise. So in a lot of things we have to demonstrate a high political culture, we make our decision a precedent. And this is a precedent that will enter into the practice that will continue to form the legal field of our nation. I think that Foreign Minister Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk is now a hostage, no, let's be abstract, the relationship between individuals, and he's a hostage to the unsettling issues of the constitutional plan. There is a conflict between the articles, between certain provisions of article 106 of the Constitution and article 116 of the Constitution, and this is put into effect in the absence of reform. So to violate, even minor rules of procedure, but legislation, I mentioned the committee, is impossible. This question should be dealt with in an orderly manner. I think that's the idea of our faction, and I'm aware of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, that there's no reason to abandon Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk as Foreign Minister, any failure to fulfil Ukraine's international obligations or violation of Ukrainian legislation in part of foreign policy. And so initiating the release of the minister prior to his visit to the United States, listen, dear colleagues from the anti - crisis coalition, it's a nervous, emotional, petty reaction that doesn't suit the state's husbands. It won't give anyone authority. And Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. I know Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk as his colleague, as well as the first deputy minister in the early 1990s, I know him as a person who worked with the Inter-Ministerial Commission on the preparation of Ukraine's accession to the Council of Europe. This person did a lot at the time, and we in the Kuchma government, in the government of Zviagilski, did so, achieved a very effective state of readiness to join the Council of Europe and became full members of this community. I will remind you of Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's activity in the early 1990s, when he, as deputy foreign minister, showed initiative and great wisdom and a brilliant reaction when it came to the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and in particular the fate of those nuclear arsenals that Ukraine inherited, an independent Ukraine from the Soviet Union. The MIP is now working effectively. This is evidenced by visits to Ukraine by numerous delegations and colleagues of Tarasyuk, foreign ministers of other countries, as well as visits and international legal acts resulting from these trips. In principle, Boris Ivanovich stands for our national interests. But this is certainly not like those who are not interested in defending Ukraine’s national interests, but it is obviously guided by the instructions of a neighbor who listens more closely to the centres of that external administration. And, by the way, your esteemed colleagues from the anti-crisis coalition, if you want to abandon the minister of foreign affairs to worsening relations with the Russian Federation, ask yourself, ‘ Why, did Tarasuk initiate a meat, milk, guilt, war? But be honest and consistent, remember the Kazan Summit, remember how many documents were prepared, and how effectively the same Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk worked on drafting documents on the Single Economic Space. Ukrainian-Russian relations are not the first to experience a difficult period and not the Tarasyuk initiative, it was the previous President of Kuchma and other ministers. And it's obviously not Ukraine's fault. The Russian Federation is not conducting our foreign policy course. This too should be discussed openly. By the way, in this room already those who are saving for the interests of the Russian Federation, I would say the fifth column, mentioned in 2017, the deadline for the conclusion of the Treaty on the Circumstances of the Black Sea Fleet, the base of the Black Sea Fleet in Ukraine. And why don't you mention that in May of this year, there's a great deal of friendship and partnership agreement with the Russian Federation. Why don't you appeal? Boris Ivanovich is working on it. By the way, and this is evidenced by the effective work of Boris Ivanovich, in particular by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation of Lavrov, who recently took place, and by the effective conduct of a joint committee meeting on foreign policy issues. Clearly, we heard Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk’s report. He gave an expert high score. We had the opportunity to ask questions, and we could see how competent, how well the answer was. Our offer goes back to that. The activity of the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in general needs to be approved, let the person work. We often hear calls for unity in this room. But we did not overstep our obligations. We're being dumped. And by the way, consider the Cabinet of Ministers, which, according to 116 articles, carries out internal and external policies, right before you go to the United States, you have to think about, well, sorry, in domestic politics, it's not going to add authority to the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u56	Stay in the rostrum for now. Any questions? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u57	I ask you to pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u58	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u59	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Honorable Rapporteur! I would like to clarify the prospects for our work and the possible fulfilment of the duties of Minister Tarasyuk in what context. I'm not talking about his corruption in pro-American politics, but the position he took when our soldiers were sent to Iraq, to Afghanistan, this, let's say, will remain on his conscience. But lately in Sochi this summer, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has failed, ignored, specifically failed to prepare the Prime Minister and failed this meeting. A visit to the President's FRG. This meeting is failing - the whole of Ukraine, the Chancellor of the FRG does not accept the President of Ukraine. In the United States, failure. What else can we prepare for? What official visits are yet to be missed so that we can understand with you what task does the Supreme Council have in terms of trust or mistrust with Minister Tarasyuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u60	I don't think Minister Tarasyuk is responsible for what you said was a failed visit to the United States. Next. As I recall, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in August prepared a draft letter to the Secretary-General of NATO, who, by himself or by the Prime Minister, or someone in the Cabinet of Ministers, had been rewritten to release those coming out of Ukraine's international obligations and from Ukrainian legislation. Moreover, the foreign minister did not whisper that phrase, which later became the basis for the decision by the Anti-Crist Coalition, was about the ruling on the results of the NATO Prime Minister's visit. And he said there -- he took no powers given by the state, and especially by the Cabinet of Ministers and us, the Supreme Council, he said there about Ukraine's willingness to participate in Ukraine's armed operations with NATO. [[Listen to me.]] Read the Internet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u61	Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u62	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Catherinechuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u63	Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u64	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Your Honor, I understand that you know that this issue is now under consideration with a grave violation of the Rules. In accordance with part two of article 29 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we demand that Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich be removed from holding plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a demand from two factions -- the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the BUT. This question should be considered immediately after its introduction, and you, Adam Ivanovich, have no right to hold a meeting right now. You will have the right to conduct it further after this matter has been considered in the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u65	Let us consider the question. And you know it's not going to be in your favor. Acid, please, passes the word to Sukhhom. It's not a question, it was a misconstrued speech, by the way. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Jacobina, as a former party worker, I personally find it difficult to vote for Boris Tarasyuk's resignation, whom I remember as a former senior companion, an instructor of the CD Company of Ukraine's International Department, who has successfully developed methods to counter the movement abroad, how to show this movement that is only born. It's gonna be hard for me. But I want to ask you, do you know if you understand the term "determinism"? Causal relationships. I know you do. Please tell me, why the root cause of Tarasyuk’s resignation? In the same way: (a) under new political conditions, he refuses to work in government because he is going into opposition? Is there any real claim to it, or is there perhaps a third reason? So what exactly happened? Why are we asking such a question today? Is it possible that Boris Tarasyuk himself has put himself in such a position that he cannot work in this government? And there's no hysteria or screaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. You know. I don't care about any of those facts about Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's work and political biography that you want to leave him. I'm a nationalist and an anti-communist, but in any position, I've valued people for their professional data, for their loyalty and patriotism, and a lot of people with the red tickets of the 3-million-dollar PPU have turned out to be true patriots, and we, thank God, haven't broken society. This red corner is obviously a gift, already marginals from that environment that couldn't be realized. It's about Taraszuk. Honorary colleagues, change, amend, and supplement legislation, such as the National Security and Defence Act, write out other tasks of foreign political authority, and then tell the minister that he is not carrying them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u68	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Will We Discuss the Questions? Shall we? Then please register with factions. Take a look at the factions. Let's talk about it. Yes, please sign up for factions. Yes, Your Honor, before I give the factions my word to the President's representative on the Supreme Council of Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Please. He'll be followed by Puppetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Before making a decision on this point, let me share with you some of the reasonings that the President of Ukraine has instructed me to make a sound at this meeting. Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President according to his competence, which is set out in separate constitutional rules, particularly in section 10 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This competence of the President is unconditional, inextricable, and comes out of the context of the third part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the President of Ukraine is quoted as saying: “takes the lead in the external political activity of the State”. The other one. The President of Ukraine received a letter from the Prime Minister of Ukraine proposing to the President of Ukraine to submit an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich as Foreign Minister. After considering the letter and, in particular, the proposal it made, the President of Ukraine decided to reject the offer. In particular, in his reply, the President stressed that, quote: “Boris Tarasyuk, assuming the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, is properly carrying out his duties, ensuring the successful implementation of the foreign policy course of our country, determined by the President of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine.” It should also be noted that it is not clear from the Prime Minister's letter whether the proposal contained therein was in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which acts under the Basic Law of the State on the principle of collegiality. Third. The mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release a member or members of the government as defined in article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The same standard not only defines the powers of the Supreme Council as members of government but also defines subjects of submission. Thus, there is an exclusive preference for the President to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of a foreign minister. As a result, it retains this exclusive right to apply for the release of a foreign minister. Let me also draw attention to the following situation: the draft Kabmin Act of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under the signature of Viktor Yanuković and supported in the first reading by the Ukrainian Parliament, stipulates that the Minister of Foreign Affairs may be released from office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. And the fourth, therefore, regardless of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is certainly empowered to release any member of the Government, the Constitution of Ukraine does not give the prime minister specific powers: they submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u70	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u71	Can I have 30 seconds? With regard to the dismissal of the foreign minister. Instead, since the Constitution retains the mandate of the President to govern the external political activities of the State, which it can carry out exclusively through the Foreign Minister appointed under its administration, it is reasonable to believe that the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the release of Tarasuk Boris Ivanovich goes beyond the limits of the powers defined by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Pupkov, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Who? The field. Please, Terrence. Prepare Kulczynski. Kirilenka, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u73	Victor Terrence, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko", "The Fatherland Party". Dear colleagues, today the tariffs have grown sensitively – 3-4 times, inflation is on the rise, there is no budget for the following year. In other words, the government of Yanukovich is convincingly demonstrating its professional incompetence and corruption. And so in order to distract society from the difficult consequences of this government's work and active, also for this purpose, the whole series of Lucenka's resignations, Tarasyuk's, Grizzenka's. Thus, a similar practice in the transfer of arrows is not new. It's actually a communist practice. Another convincing example was that when the Communist government of Moscow led Ukraine to famine, mass political courts began in Ukraine to distract the public from the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. So this is a communist scenario of violence and impunity, but I want to say the main thing: when the President hesitated to offer Yanukovitch as Prime Minister or not, the public of Ukraine, and to honor, and to the truth, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and all the press warned him that they would betray the Universal, that it was impossible to do so. Julia Mostova, in the newspaper “The Mirror of the Week, ” prophetically wrote that Yushchenka’s ministers were being handed over alone. And the president's big mistake was that he didn't listen and believed the impostors. And as a result, in Ukraine today, a communist-oligarchy junta is a unique, unknown phenomenon. And today they're filming ministers, tomorrow they're going to take the freedom of speech, the destruction of democracy in Ukraine, and our independence itself. They will act as the Communists have always acted. In World War I alone, the Lenins were paid for by the Germans, and now they are paid for by their own oligarchs. So society should realize what is happening in Ukraine today. On the other hand, this majority is doomed. It is already cracking at the seams, even though it is now operating in the spirit of this impunity, because the issue that is being considered today is being dealt with with with in violation of all the rules of the Rules, because draft regulations have not even been considered on committees, and this cannot be done because it requires conscience in order to act under the Rules. Yet, dear friends, in this antitypical majority today, conscience is clean because it is not used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u74	Kirilenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] We already had a break. Behind him is Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u75	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that, like all such questions lately, this question is being considered with the utmost prejudice. Neither government representatives nor representatives of the ruling coalition have mentioned any great success that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had during that time. No one even mentioned that Ukraine was granted market economy status from the European Union. Nobody's trying to mention that Jackson-Venic's rescinded discriminatory amendment to the Ukrainian economy. No one is trying to mention the great visa improvements for our fellow countrymen, who over the past two years have consistently been implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the direction of Tarasuk. Because that is not the goal of the ruling coalition. The aim is to complete the audit of the country's foreign policy course and the final clearance from the government of all democratic ministers, all those represented there and the quota of the President of Ukraine. Even so, this is in direct contravention of even the new, amended Constitution. All those who ask these questions have long forgotten that article 106, part three, directly states that the President of Ukraine is leading foreign political activities in Ukraine. The Supreme Council determines the principles of foreign and domestic politics. In doing so, no one mentions that the principles of foreign policy are defined in 2003 as a concept approved by law. And by the way, that concept is about what Ukraine's goal is to become a NATO member. At the same time, Minister Tarasyuk is reproached only for enforcing legislation and subjecting himself to those decisions that were previously approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm convinced that this is a completely unsuspecting question. Because the foreign minister, even if the ruling coalition removes it today, will be introduced by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. And there's no way that this is going to be the same candidate. And if it's not the same, you can't change the country's foreign policy course. And all of that, which is smoldering today, is absolutely unpredictable, because the goal is to destabilize the political situation. The ruling coalition has long forgotten the curse of national unity when you begged the President to bring Yanukovich here. Then you signed the Universal, the President entered, Janukovitch - Prime Minister. But on the following day, as during his first stay under the authority of Prime Minister Janukovich, your entire government has forgotten its promises. And this will inevitably be punished, and the whole government will resign because it doesn't work for national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u76	John Bondarczuk, a faction of socialists. To be prepared, Kiselov conveys the word Kožari.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u77	Regrettably, the foreign minister Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuka is picking up ill - healthed and unwarranted political whirring. But politics is much less than logic. Logic is simple. You can't be in power at the same time, you can't be in opposition. You have to choose. First, he is unfortunately overly politically involved. In office of the Foreign Minister, a person should be more neutral, governed solely by the interests of the State, not by corporate or private parties. We don't want the minister to be either pro-American or pro-Native or pro-Russian. It must be pro-Ukrainian. Second, the Foreign Minister is the face of the state. If so, the face of our nation today is neither expressive nor limited nor unsympathetic. Third, the Minister of Foreign Affairs should be inclined to find compromises, and he is a master of conflict. He's very often putting the President in an indistinguishable position and, I think, we should help the head of state, whom we honor and respect his constitutional powers, to get rid of such a company. Fourthly, the Cabinet of Ministers is a member of the Ukrainian Cabinet, and as a soldier, it is necessary to keep pace with the entire structure. Boris Ivanovich tries to walk like a bad boss himself, thinks he's going in his leg, and the whole mouth is not going in his leg. Fifth, with regard to the legal uncertainty they are trying to blackmail us here, I will not mention how in many cases previously voted in such cases, different decisions have been made, just to say that this is another unnecessary and additional argument in favour of completing political reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u78	Please, Kojara, Party of Regions, prepare Alexey's hand over to Simonka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! We have heard several times today from the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, and from the representatives of “Our Ukraine”, the position of the Constitution of Ukraine, which rightly states that the President of Ukraine governs Ukraine's external political activities. And I want to ask you all where it is written that the President of Ukraine governs foreign policy or defines foreign policy, it's not written anywhere. And the Constitution itself says that there is only one body in the state, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which defines the foreign policy of the state. It's different. We have considered today the draft decree by “Our Ukraine” on the approval of the Foreign Minister Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. I would like to say how we approve of the minister’s activities. In such a disgraceful form, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs complained against the Prime Minister of Ukraine prior to his visit to the United States and complained to a representative of a foreign state. Yes, if we approve of this activity, why so, such practice will continue. I think that since this situation has happened, as has already been said, has an unprecedented character not only in Ukrainian history, but also in the history of the whole world, I think we have to give a proper assessment of the minister's activities. It's different. We have also heard from the distinguished Master Jacob that it seems that what happened was such a petty event. Let's think about whether the state of the Ukrainian-American relationship is a small event or not. You realize that after the American ambassador took over. The Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was harmed by Ukrainian-American relations, by the prestige of our country, by the prestige of the President of Ukraine. And it seems to me that when we talk about Ukraine's relationship with such strategic partners as the United States, we have no right to leave it unresponsive. Well, at last, I would like to say that I agree with previous statements that the Foreign Minister is not just a person in charge of the President's mandate. In accordance with the current Constitution, we already have a party government. Government, the time of unpartisan governments has passed. That's why the Foreign Minister can't help but say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u80	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in our Constitution, there is no “determining” in an article defining the power of the President of the verb. Therefore, when it comes to what it is implementing, it must comply with the Supreme Council's decision on the law on the main aspects of domestic and foreign policy. That's it. And no more. So let him do what is required of him. Secondly, this situation is very dangerous for the State because of the President's dictatorship and environment. Because the President is trying to replace the choice of the nation, the choice of the people. Next. I would like to draw attention to the next question of principle. The anti-crisis coalition has renounced the Minister's political trust. And he's squeezing for this position. It's kind of funny. We deny him trust, and he's fidgeting. Why do we need a minister who's not going to do what an anti-crisis coalition requires? What is the danger of all this? This, first, is the gap between the policy pursued by the anti-crisis coalition and what the Minister and the President impose on society. Next. He is now, and he is a very dangerous, respected comrade, consciously acting as a pawn, a provoker for the exacerbation of inter-State and domestic conflicts. Therefore, I would like to draw attention today to the fact that there is a spiral to create a new cycle of crisis in management, and it is not by chance that the oranges keep telling us that the crisis is supposed to be approaching. What I would like to draw attention to, respected comrades. There's another danger of leaving him there. You will note that the President's programme “10 steps to meet”, the President's electoral officer, is not a word of joining NATO. It will establish the Party of the People's Union of Our Ukraine programme not a word about joining NATO. Our Ukraine bloc is not talking about joining NATO. Whose programme is Tarasyuk and President Yushchenko implementing? The Kuchma programme to join NATO is under way. It is dangerous, therefore, that they retain “Quickness” in power. And we need an immediate anti-crisis coalition to decide to resign them because they are implementing the Kuchma programme. Come on, comrades. They are very dangerously exacerbating the relationship between States. Cuba is treating our children. Belarus is our brothers and Russia. What I'm saying is, on instructions from Minister Tarasyuk, we will bring democracy to Cuba and Belarus on orders from the Americans. Why don't you treat our Ukrainian children in the same United States? Thus, I would like to draw the attention of distinguished comrades, the Minister is not in South-East Asia, he is not in Africa, he is not in Latin America. In the Middle East, ambassadors have also looked at United States guidelines that are issued to defend national interests. A complete failure in foreign policy. I think we need to make a decision right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u82	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, please, Vitalia Jakovitch Šibko, please. What a conversation the committee had.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In line with the decision of the Supreme Council session, there was a committee meeting last Wednesday to discuss the matter of commission. The issue was considered in conformity with the Constitution, the Rules, and the Supreme Council Committees Act. At the meeting there were views that related to the position of the President, to the Minister in foreign affairs, and to the claims made on the one hand and on the other. First. There have been claims that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been able to ensure the activity of our foreign political state to date, and many complaints have been made that the last minute has had to do with the very many dangers and disasters associated with this submission and the call of the American ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Those who expressed this position felt that the minister should leave this position because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not doing its job today. The other side said, as you heard today at our meeting, that today the ministry is successfully managing its activities and even offering to approve the minister’s activities in foreign affairs. There were other opinions from the third party that it was said that this was not the committee's competence today, that the committee should not solve personnel issues today, that the references were to the Constitution and to the Rules, and that the situation of the President-Prime Minister was simply emerging today, and that the minister had become a hostage in foreign affairs. It has also been said that so far the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made very many minor mistakes, not to mention the large ones that have been allowed to do so today, it has been said, of which, of these little things, there is a great policy. This great policy is then treated as a failure at all. And there were also many facts, cited in these statements regarding the relevance of Boris Ivanovich’s being a minister in foreign affairs. After hearing and discussing the matter, the committee decided to entrust the head of the committee with the opinion of the committee members as information to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Question completed. I put to the vote a decree number 2629-1 on the release of Tarasjuk from office as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:19:59]] For 247 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialist Party – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, some of us need a break. Maybe we'll do it again: we'll work, we'll finish the session 30 minutes early. Who's for working without a break, but 30 minutes early to finish the session, please vote. [[12:20:59]] For 244 Chechtev, please. Excuse me, excuse me. Okay, Chechatov will. All other factions register.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions requests the inclusion in the agenda of the current Constitution of the issue of discharge from the occupied office of Minister of Interior Lucenka Jurija Vitaliyovich and the appointment of the Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Korža Viktor Petrovich, whose candidature in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, was introduced by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u86	Yes, please sign up for any factions other than the Party of the Regions, please. Bondarchuk, faction of socialists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u87	Please pass the word to John Sidorovich Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u88	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u89	The Socialist faction believes that it is worthwhile to support this proposal because there is no need to take on the appointment of a minister of youth and sports and there is no need to keep the Ministry of Internal Affairs in a state of ignorance. Obviously, we can resolve these issues quickly and thus the government will have new members of its cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u90	Yes, please, Bespallian, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u91	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." It's kind of weird. Those questions that are not to be discussed are put to the vote. For example. Yesterday, not only did the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider but it also voted. And they refused to accept the resignation of Yuri Lucenka. I think it was the right decision, let it work, and you'll have to discredit the police, especially on Prosecutor's Day, a friendly structure like that. That was the wrong decision. So you can't go back, there's no filing. Now it's a decision you should have made, but for some reason you don't make. You have been told, however, that in accordance with article 29, part 2, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, considering your systematic gross violations of the Rules, it is a requirement that you be suspended from holding plenary meetings. I understand that you are. I mean, you hold the chair, that's clearly human, but please leave the chair and take that question off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u92	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I join the wish that you, Adam Ivanovich, leave your chair at least temporarily and pass on the word to Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u94	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to remind you that literally a few minutes ago, the Supreme Council voted to finish work half an hour early. We have to start the “Variance” in an hour, so the “Variance” should start in five minutes. In this regard, first of all, we will not be able to technically address any of these issues in relation to the decision of the Supreme Council. Secondly, I want to remind you that yesterday the Supreme Council did not make a decision, and so you always insist that it is impossible to go back to that decision during one session. Therefore, I also ask to act within the framework of the Rules and the Constitution. And yet, Adam Ivanovich, the next question. I understand that the Anti-Crist Coalition has a desire for human resources issues to be resolved. But there are laws, including elections and so forth that we have not been able to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u96	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u97	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u98	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u99	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister's appointment with respect to the release of Lucenko from the post of Minister of the Interior is. But we have to consider this: next week we work on committees. Law enforcement agencies, and this is a structured vertical, are the people who own weapons, who today can have a very serious impact on the processes that are taking place in society, they can initiate and provide different shares using special divisions, and so on, it's a very serious problem. And the law enforcement authorities already know that the minister is actually released, it's just, let's say, at the time: day, two, three. And here we people's deputies have no right to do that. It's a public order, and today we have to make a decision about his release.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, calm down! I say, is the Minister's office ready to consider the following personnel issues? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The Cabinet of Ministers is ready to consider these personnel issues. The Prime Minister's submission is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u101	I am voting on the proposal to consider personnel matters concerning the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, and I am asking you to support this proposal. [[12:27:19]] For 246 Decision taken. I'm voting on Supreme Council ruling number 20. Turn on the microphone or it won't hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u102	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Adam Ivanovich, I am asking you to explain to me today who authorized you to severely violate the Rules from the beginning of our session? And specifically, for what you just voted for with the violation, I want to ask you: give me a pass, I'm a national MP, I don't have an application, I don't know what you're voting for. Yesterday's submission was rejected. In this way, you violate not only the Rules but the Constitution, for which you have responsibility. If you're only working today, I understand, and if you respect the authority of the higher legislature, please don't serve, I don't know why, ambitions and clans, but serve the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Anatoly Sergiyovich, you were fortunately doing another job when we voted twice in favour of Prime Minister Yehanurov's appointment. That's the answer for the analogy that the Supreme Council did. I'm voting on draft decree 2635 on the release of Lucenko from the post of Minister of the Interior. Please vote. [[12:29:23]] For 248 Decision taken. Factions: Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 5, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialist Party – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, we have an appointment for Korja as Ukraine’s minister in matters of family, youth, and sports, registration number 2648. Viktor Petrovich is our colleague, a member of the Supreme Council. Discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up for the factions who want to discuss this candidature. Please, from the factions. Yes, dear colleagues, they've just signed up for factions. I'd like to see you, Victor Petrovich. Please come to the rostrum. See? You want a question? All right, come on, sign up for more questions. Sign up for questions. Yes, please, five minutes. Bondarchuk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u104	I'd like to give the deputy to Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u105	Philindash Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u106	Thank you. Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. Victor Petrovich, we know that in 2008 we have the Olympics ahead of us, and we know that there are some problems in preparation. How do you see the main steps we need to take in order to finally show not regression at the next Olympics, but progress, and there was a chance to preserve the reputation of the sports state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. I want to say that, indeed, the preparations for our Olympics for the most important world sports forum in the world, such as the Olympic Games, are well under way. And there's already been a round of candidates. I'm vice president of the National Olympic Committee on these issues. There are, indeed, many problems, financial problems, technological problems. In fact, today's professional sport is a battle of technology, a very large amount of money involved. And unfortunately, we have a huge backlog in material and technical security. You know, unfortunately, in years of independence, no sports palace has been built, no modern - day Olympic object. So we still have a lot of chrome. We have problems with the National Doping Center and many other current problems. But what I'm saying is today is that there's a totally friendly work of the Ministry, the Olympic Committee and our profile committee of the Supreme Council. And the vast majority of these problems are already in the process of being solved. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u108	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u109	I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague, Mrs. Catherine Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u110	Katerina Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u111	Dear Victor Petrovich, I have another question for you. I know that you are a good sport expert, but the ministry that you are going to lead is also concerned with children, families, young people, and gender equality. These are questions that are now very relevant and serious, including those relating to social orphans, the development of a system of family homes, and so forth. Tell me, what are your plans in this area, and how long are you going to go on with this policy that has been going on for two years in a row? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u112	Thank you for asking. In fact, you have dealt with very important problems. And I realize that it is not an accident that this problem is united in the department of profile. And it is not possible to separate the health of the nation, physical culture, sports from such an axiom as family, youth, guidance, employment, and so forth. I tried to get deeper into these issues during my work on the profile committee, and we supported all the initiatives of the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports, and you know that several of our joint drafts have passed through the Supreme Council Hall. I'm sure there's still a lot to be done. A number of conventions have been adopted, legislative acts that still need to be worked out as State programs. This is true of both homelessness and carelessness. Unfortunately, we have given priority to something international. Our orphans are unable to find a home in the Ukrainian family. There are many questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u114	Dear Victor Petrovich, first of all, I welcome you with such a high appointment that I hope will take place in this session room. Unlike your predecessor, whose work résumé was only political activity in youth movements and organizations, you have experience both in physical culture and in a professional athlete. And as far as I know, you were the head of the Dynamo public society, you're the Major General of the militia. Please tell me that I read somewhere in the periodic press that you were released by former Interior Minister Lucenko for political reasons, that is, by revolutionary utility. Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u115	I think that's true, because I didn't actually get any accusations, and the farce that was demonstrated at the Dynamite conference has already given him an assessment of the story, these two and a half years that Dynamo is working for a new management that, unfortunately, has only led to the negative effects of both economic and sporting. Production volumes are reduced, several sports schools are closed, and hundreds of children are on the street. This is the sum total of sports activities that govern internal affairs. But I don't think it's hopeless. I think that the time of opposition, the time of politics in sports he enters and I absolutely support the great expert Juan Antonio Samarance, the honorary president of the International Olympic Committee, who said that sports outside politics and I am inspired by the fact that on Government Day the deputies who work in this room voted 418 for our program, for the health of the nation, for the development of physical culture and sports, I am very grateful. I hope that's still the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u116	Thank you, Victor Petrovich, sit down, please. I think we did the right thing by giving the opportunity to listen to the applicant. Discussion, yes, Catherinechuk, please. Behind him, Kalashnikov. Who, Mikola Dmitrovich? Do you want to get out of here? Microphone, please, Catherinechuca.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u117	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, today you are holding a meeting with a grave violation of the Rules as usual. And today, out of order, you put to the vote the Tarasuk change, the Lucian change, and I realize that today it's just the beginning of this demonstration of the establishment of the Party of Regions monopoly, along with the Communists you're trying to impose on society. Adam Ivanovich, today you are in violation of the Rules. Today, we have made a proposal from two factions that you must immediately execute to remove you from the duties of chairman at the meeting. You also did not even discuss the matter with a violation of the Rules. Adam Ivanovich, all that is happening in Parliament today is not democratic. You fully understand your irresponsibility and inability to remove you, except physically getting you out of the fold, after violating what you have done today. I'm sure society will appreciate your actions and the actions of the Anti-Crist Coalition. And what is happening now is a massive and progressive offensive to the democratic course that 15 million citizens of Ukraine supported in 2004 is a conscious rematch of the anti-crisis coalition, which voted in the previous elections for no more than 40 percent. You realize that this is the exact path that leads to the political crisis. And you deliberately, Adam Ivanovich, take the place of a key tool in the implementation of this policy. I understand why Frost is not in this chair today, because anti-constitutional and anti-rules are being implemented today. Adam Ivanovich, I think you're going to have a lot of problems going on, because today's just a decision we made to remove you, it's just the first tray, we're going to make a second and a third, and then you're going to go to study the Rules for two weeks, and then we're going to ask you to never be in this chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u118	I could be in trouble, you're right. But you already have them. Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions, anti-crisis coalition. I support Victor Petrovich Korzh! This is a person who is a patriot of Ukraine, an expert, an athlete, a person who has raised the Dynamo to the level that today needs to be raised after the activities of those whom you have released today. Victor Petrovich, from our party, from the anti-crisis coalition, work for Ukraine, work for the state, confident that you will do everything you can to get Ukraine big medals from China to become a powerful sporting state, and you are the expert that the state is proud of today. Thank you, work!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u120	Tweezer. Out of the way, mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I think when you listen to my predecessors' speeches, you're dividing the position that I'm going to say as a representative of the Communist faction. Victor Petrovich, this is, indeed, a statesman, really, a man with a great and past, and with a wonderful future, a man who, as a professional, is very much involved in both sports and economics, sports. He's a doctor for education. And it's a humane specialty. I think my dear friends that Victor Petrovich was raised in the best traditions of Soviet Ukraine when sport flourished when Ukraine was well represented at all levels from the European champions, the world to the Olympics. I think that the better traditions of Soviet sport Victor Petrovich will be transferred to the revival of Ukraine, which began with the formation of an anti-crisis coalition. So to Victor Petrovich, I have only one wish from the faction of Communists and from me personally: so we hold and believe you, we believe that as a minister, you will be worthy to engage in and develop sports, you will be worthy of upholding the rights of our young people, the rights of the family, and you will be worthy to represent the anti-crisis coalition in the government of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u122	Thank you. Eugene Filindash, please. Follow him, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u123	Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. I know Victor Petrovich by working together on a committee of youth-friendly policies, sports and tourism. And I want to point out that he's probably one of the most professional deputies in this committee. We have the normal cooperation of all the deputies who are on the committee, from the different factions, and all the deputies from all the factions see that Korge is one of the most active, who really understands from the inside very well the field of sport, knows what he can do to ensure that we don't neglect the sport definitively, but we can raise it to at least the level that we had at the beginning of independence. And I'm sure Victor Petrovich can handle this job. What's more, work is more than enough. And not just in the field of sports, but in particular in the same youth policy, where there are so many problems. And young people can't now say that they feel that there is any policy in the state in the field of youth care and that they can make it happen. I think the prime minister's job is to. in this area, to make young people feel that there is a youth policy in the state that has some perspective, there is some strategy. And I'm sure, and our faction is also confident that the new minister will be able to handle this assignment. We support Victor Petrovich's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Pisarenko, faction. Easy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u125	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I don't think anyone in this room doubts the professional ability to be a candidate for the ministers of Corge. What is more, these skills are claimed by prominent sports experts like Gregory Mikhailovich Surkis. But nevertheless, the law is for all one. And then there in Korža is former Attorney General Piscoon, a well-known anti-corruption fighter, and he should have told him that under the State Service Act, candidates for positions in public authorities are filling out a declaration on their incomes and family members. It is your government that made proposals two days ago to amend the Anti-Corruption Act, which, in the event of adoption, will not be obliged to report on the family's income. I mean, you live on your own salary, you set things up for your family, and you don't say anything. But until such changes are accepted, the declaration must be filled in. I mean, technically, Adam Ivanovich, we can't deal with this right now. Like the appointment of Tsushka Vasil Petrovich as minister of the interior, who also failed to make a declaration on his family’s income and income. Now, about the vote that took place before this, about Lucenka's resignation. First. “Julia Timoshenko’s bloc” did not vote in favour of Lucenko’s resignation. And these five people, who think they're supposed to be from BIT, they're not really from BIT and they're being expelled from the faction. The other one. I ask citizens of Ukraine to pay attention to the vote of the Socialist faction yesterday on the question of Lucenka's resignation and today. They didn't vote yesterday, and today they vote. It turns out that there are no principles involved. People were just trading for office because the Party of Regions was pulling their candidate and the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u126	Turn off the microphone. Oleg, you'll have the next question, you'll have the opportunity to say it. That's not the point. You're talking about Korzh. Finish with Korj. Next question, I'll give you my word if you sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u127	Adam Ivanovich, tell us about Korah. Since Korge's representative of the anti-crisis coalition means everything about coalition activity is on the subject. That is why the socialists demonstrated by this vote that they would sell their mothers for positions, not that they were ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Calm down. I remind you, the more Lazko himself reminded us that we're going to have a personnel question, and he's going to make a statement and he's going to say whatever he wants. Dear colleagues! Listen, please. And Victor Petrovich Korz, and the next candidate are our colleagues, and their declarations are in the personnel department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yes, I am each of you. Please, one minute to the Sandman's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u129	Adam Ivanovich, you said what I wanted to tell the MPs that we all wrote declarations before getting our signs from the Supreme Council. Therefore, all declarations are in personal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u130	All right, good fellows. I'm voting on the Supreme Council Order on the appointment of Korj V.P. Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports, registration number 2648 Please vote. [[12:49:21]] For 247 It's been decided. Let us welcome our colleague to a rather important ministerial office. Dear colleagues, you have the Prime Minister's appointment of Tsushka Vasil Petrovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Registration number 2649. Is there a need to ask questions? Please, Vasil Petrovich, on the rostrum. Please sign up for the question. We voted. Yes, please, five minutes. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u131	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear Vassili Petrovich, I am sure that we will vote for you, we know your principles, we know that you did a great job as Governor of the Odessa region when the President introduced you. We hope that you will also work well in the new post. But I have one question: what do you think, work and cut off the so-called loch divorce at the bottom of the internal affairs system, when the previous minister specifically created such systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u132	Ivan Vasilevich, I answer to you and I think for everyone. You know, two more days ago, I didn't really think I could be a candidate for this job, so I'm going to answer this question: I'm going to get into a situation, I'm going to work it out without any rush, without any sudden movements. “First of all, justice and legality” will be my motto in the work. I think so. What we understand with the collective that is in the Ministry of Internal Affairs today is that there are people in any group, including in such a large number of 300 thousand, who are breaking the law, but it is still necessary to assume that they are units. Because these are the people who are now responsible for the rule of law in the country. And thanks to them, there is a situation today where our citizens can still walk the streets. What's flawed is, of course, if you vote today, I'll see to it, I'll do everything I can to make sure that the police match their name and comply with the militia's laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u133	Reraft Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u134	Dear Vassil Petrovich, I have no doubt about your human qualities. I know. It's a neighbor. But that's not the point. I'm being warned, you know that. You are one of the experienced deputies in this room today, and you can see how the chairman is conducting the meeting. And including when it comes to your choice. And the fact that you're swallowing it makes me sad. I just told you. Now for the questions. Vasil Petrovich, what are you going to do with the IMF that was not introduced by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko? And what will your actions be? How do you feel? How will you act when these are the intentions of those who believe. And you know who I'm talking about, and yesterday those names came out here, and they're coming back tomorrow and tomorrow. Can you be professional in this situation? What will be expected of you as a minister of the interior? I have this question because right now you haven't shown this quality of yours, you know, like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u135	I'll answer that. I've always worked on the principle that everything needs to be taken into account and taught. As far as I'm concerned, the police are in this position. I assure you, there will be a law for all. On my part, that's the line. If that's not the case, believe me, I'll have the strength and the courage to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u136	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u137	Vasil Petrovich, I now recall how we were with you on the program of Savik Schuster "Freedom of speech," as you said in your broad chest, and swore, and feared that you would never go into coalition with the Party of the Regions, the Communists, that you had nothing to do there. It's such an introduction. Now you've released your colleague, and you, and we've gone a long way of fighting for democracy, liberated illegally, released without any real reason, because he worked honestly and worked well, worked well, well, the authority of the militia is not with you, but among the people grew, well, dozens of times: from seven percent to forty -- and continued to grow. How do you feel about such a situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u138	Boris Yakovich, I'll answer that. I've been doing my best to have a broad coalition. And a specific MP, Bespaly, laid the foundation for the resignation of Yuri Lucenka. About me beating myself in the chest, Boris Jakovic. You're a politician, I'm a politician, everything flows, everything changes. And here, alas. And the breast expands when the muscles are pumping. Thank you. The main thing is not for the rewards of the undeserving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u139	He is the son of Jephthah, and the son of Jephthah is Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u140	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vassili Petrovich, one question and one request. On Sunday, last week in the town of Branka Lugansk, the police beat up one person and is now in a state of resuscitation for almost a week. Other militia officers are now attempting to pressure the family to withdraw a statement on this unprecedented fact. This is the case with respect to the honest work of the previous Minister and the impact on his internal affairs. A huge request to intervene in this situation and to ensure that the perpetrators are punished, and those militia officers involved have been brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u141	Thank you. If you assign me on a specific occasion, of course, I'll give you an assignment. But I will answer to your colleagues, which means you understand very well that today you will vote and make a political decision. That our system of law enforcement, not just the police, needs reform, needs it. It is our task and those who today stand as opposition and those who, in most cases, without any picketing, for the sake of the country, for the sake of citizens, for the sake of our children, for the sake of our grandchildren, to reform the system so that we feel that we are living in the rule of law and in security. And I look forward to building on Parliament, and I look forward to collegiate work in the Government, and that will be the case. Selfishness is not what I'm going to do. Because even at a post like this, one person can't solve anything. And, of course, problems arise. If you say there, take statistics, you can use statistics to serve the order, and statistics can be applied to remove it from work, both for it and for statistics. It all depends on what we really want to do. That's why I thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u142	Thank you. Yeah, Baby wants to come out. Who else insists? Sign up for the factions, please. The faction entry is coming. Yes, will Pisarenko hand over the can, or the school? School, please. That's right. Andrew hasn't been heard yet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u143	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. You know, it is always desirable to discuss the matter when it is asked fairly and honestly. Well, I'm dropping it, that's what was said, but that's not the main thing in the circumstances. When we talk about re-arrangement, it's important enough, because the Ministry of Internal Affairs is responsible for internal politics in Ukraine. It's just that we've had it recently turned into the Ministry, it's been acting as the Ministry of Persecution for the last 15 years, but it's actually supposed to provide order in the middle of the country. And I really didn't want this ministry to be used as a tool of opposition, of opposition, of another position, of persecution for inconceivers. And the haste with which everything is being done is driving me to think of it, because I'm sure that a similar artificial creation that has been created -- the creation of communists, capitalists and socialists -- will not be able to hold on without the collapse of democratic processes for much longer in power. So, in principle, I'm worried that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will not become a repressive machine, so that today's minister, whom I'm sure you're voting on, will not become a new Bilocon, because that's the most important thing they're afraid of, they don't want and they don't want, I'll point out again, to have Ukrainian citizens, entrepreneurs, and everyone else who's experienced reprisals from their predecessors. That's why I'm underlining, we understand that there's now Maxim Kurochkin sitting next to the TV in a detention unit who knows for sure that when the minister changes, he'll be released, and I'd like to see if you'll perform the task of an anti-crisis coalition, Mr. Tsushko, will you not execute or will you stand on the watch of the law in this situation? So there are actually many problems. And ignoring basic things, basic legislation, believe it, force the next one, or allow the next authority to ignore them. Why in this room, for example, can't you now vote for everything: both the Minister of Emergency Situations, and vote here to change the Constitution not by three hundred votes, because it's a long wait, but by 226 votes? Because one member of the Socialist Party, sitting next to me, said: “The one who has more rights is right.” You have all the rights. You can turn Ukraine into a worthless, miserable state, you can turn it into a Communist dream -- into Belarus, you can turn it into a totalitarian machine, but remember, this totalitarian machine can beat you up. The Communists will not stop before they overwhelm the capitalists with whom they came to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u144	From the socialists, Shibko, please. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u145	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. The recommendations used to read: “I am aware of the social, political and other work of Vasil Petrovich since 1994, when we were elected together to the Parliament of the Second Call.” I want to say that he was always different from the pressure he had in carrying out his obligations to the Council and to his constituents. And you know that he was repeatedly chosen not only by the list but by the citizens of his constituency. And everyone knows what it's like to be chosen when you're choosing, and when questions always come to you, when you're being approached by citizens all the time, and you have to answer their questions and see what they want. I want to say that Vasil Petrovich did a great job not only as a deputy but also as governor of the Odessa region. Even so, he is remembered and remembered as an active person who can fulfill his obligations to associate with others. And that is, that he does not neglect to go directly to people, to communicate with them, I think will be a good sign of his being a minister. And it's not just with citizens, it's with private militias, it's with those people who are actually doing what they're doing. I spoke to Vasil Petrovich yesterday. And I'm going to say that this is a decision that he made today, not only because of his own desire, but also because of the position of our faction, which is consistent with the topic that today needs to be reformed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs itself, reformed as well as by an organization that has strong structures and must carry out its obligations to the people. And I think that by consistently fulfilling our obligations to the Parliament, to the government, and to the people and by delegating Vasil Petrovich to this office, we will have a good minister, a man who will carry out the obligations of a military man and do them clearly, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs itself needs to do today, and how people need to do so today. Vassil Petrovich, we wish you first and foremost great effort, yes, and first and foremost, pay attention to the district militias. It is there today that there is a policy to be followed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u146	Lilia Grigorovitch, please. After her, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u147	Lila Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Today 15 years as the Ukrainian people in the referendum on December 1st with inspiration and enthusiasm voted for the independence of their own country, putting into this concept all the best that will, freedom and state can bring to every nation. Today, dear friends, we, as we were accustomed to speaking in the old days, have a hard time celebrating a worthy anniversary. I don't translate from Russian to Ukrainian, but I say it's a shock, because it's impacted on the same rights, freedoms, Ukrainian parliamentaryism, and ultimately democracy. Dear friends, violence breeds violence. Evil breeds more and more evil, and all of this together is a road to nowhere. Think about it. Today, on this very day of the referendum, the session is held by an illegal presiding officer, we are considering illegal submission to the Minister of Foreign Affairs from the point of view of 103 articles of the Constitution, to the removal of the Minister of Internal Affairs simply without submission and without discussion, which should be submitted today, in a word, to the vachanal of the so-called parliamentary-presidency measure that they have fought for. I honor Vasil Petrovich and, you know, I applauded myself many times, Mr. Tsushka, when in "Freedom of Words" you really lifted the greatest applause with the pathetic "we will never be with them". Dear socialists, you, today there is no Head of the Supreme Council of the Frost, you are going on this assignment today. I want to ask you, you may not change your principles, but you realize the limit, and there's no limit to the coalition that you're in today. And, Vasil Petrovich, everything changes a lot, but not so fast, because in the spring, you can lower this pattern of change, lower the child with water. At the same time, I would like to ask you literally a few things, in the presence of the Ukrainian Parliament, which hears me and, above all, the Ukrainian people. I hope that, despite the fact that you've fallen into the Anti-Crist Coalition, you'll feel the bounds of those principles that you can't go beyond. I hope that there will be no turnarounds led by the Puchaks, who will cut their heads off, kill Ukrainian citizens, and the Minister of Internal Affairs will speak Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u148	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I suggest we all not be distracted by the voice charges of the Anti-Crist Coalition in some sort of violation. You, dear friends and angry friends, have had the opportunity to form your coalition. It lasted three months, you prepared it for three months, after the election, you spent a few days, you broke it with your own hands. And your accusations must be confirmed. And Vasil Petrovich, as former officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, please take into account the comments that our voters have to make today to internal affairs. First. Reinforcement of personnel at locations in the district and city departments of internal affairs That's where people come in. First of all, there is a need to strengthen, not multiply, not to cultivate inner security, which is not understood by who and what he sees as an instrument of coercion and violence. Next. Vasil Petrovich, it would be appropriate to reinstate the receptions that had taken place, to receive employees and employees of internal affairs at work and at a place of residence. It's a beautiful form that once enabled the police to understand the truth of things that happen in places. One more. Vasil Petrovich, please do not serve any party. The desire to know if you have such a desire to pick up sticks, to go out in the spring or under the ice, or anywhere else, do not take the stick. You can't be in a party. You can have your own conviction, that's your right. But you should not be guided by party instruction in your work but by law alone. Another aspect. Close interaction with the prosecutor’s office and the courts. Not stabbing, not resisting, not telling that someone is bad, but I am good, but working together and finding that when a militiaman, the authorities have spent a great deal of effort to catch the dirtbag, it is necessary to bring this case to an end in a joint effort by both the prosecution and the courts. And one more thing. I promise you from the Committee on Social Policy and Work, I will be standing here in the rostrum until we resolve the issues that concern our law enforcement officials today. And, Vasil Petrovich, a separate subject. Dear colleagues, the rules of the road are written in the blood and life of our people, which we did on the advice of an uncle in Chrórovka who was stopped on the way. These are the people, the State inspection that Chernobyl had day and night, the people that are standing on the road right now, we've turned all this into tooth decay. Whoever's got the gut thin, don't give me the bribe. Well, what you're doing is you're pushing those 20 bracelets, and then you're walking around screaming about what someone asked you to do. Don't break it, and be men! Vasil Petrovich, your success, happiness, good health and good health, and a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u150	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the Supreme Council's ruling on the appointment of Tsushka as Minister of Home Affairs in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Tsushka Vasil Petrovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, registered number 2649. Please vote. [[13:11:25]] For 246 Decision taken. Let us welcome our many - year - old colleague, the four - year - old vocations of Vasil Petrovich for an extremely responsible position. And we wish he had no trouble with the Supreme Council. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 5, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, I would ask you very much to support me. We have debts that we have no right to leave. Now, now, listen. And then you'll tell me if I'm right. We would have to consider the question of the election, because this is not an issue. I would very much like you and I to ratify two agreements that are also very burning, international agreements. And they've considered a law that's also very good for us -- about government purchases. Let's work quickly. Dear colleagues, who would like to support my proposal, please vote. And it's going to be different, we're going to do it quickly, it's going to be different, but it's not going to be as different as ever, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be different, it's going to be, it's going to be different, it's going to [[13:13:03]] For 259. Please, Bagasheva Natalia Vladislavna. You call all the councils right now, and we'll vote, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I can only name the council very briefly. But there are two moments. Because the question of the appointment of rural, rural, city heads is not that simple. And it says, it doesn't show the power and development of local self-government, but rather, it speaks of a sufficiently irresponsible attitude by both voters and those who claim to be leaders of local self-government before they then receive what positions. Why do we propose to you today to appoint an election, to support the Election Assignment Order: The first-level village head; [[Baranov district of Žitomir]] Chumakiv village head ; [[Dnipropetrova district of Dnipropetrova]] Osokorovian village head ; [[The Hersonian Region of Novorontsov]] Ajam village head; [[Kirovograd district of Kirovograd]] New Zealand's head; [[The Pologna Region of Zaporozhye]] A Yemeni village head; [[The Kyiv Region of Mironovo]] Tashin village head ; [[Berezan’s Mikolai Region]] Slav's village head. [[Skolivsky district of Lviv region]] I must pay particular attention to the terms of these elections. Although part two of article 42 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine requires that elections be scheduled in turn, they take place within 130 days of the end of the mandate of the previous head. In practice, this term is very difficult to keep. The Supreme Council must appoint these elections according to the law no later than 70 days before the election day. So in some cases that are being considered today, which should have been considered yesterday, the 130-day deadline has already been violated. To minimize this, it was necessary to appoint these elections on February 11, the following year, as proposed by the committee in the five previous rulings that were handed down to you earlier. However, the situation is compounded by the difficulty in financing these elections. The committee's request to the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of the financing of the non-recurrent elections was answered at the signature of Mr. Ribak's Deputy Finance Minister. This reply states that, as a result of the redistribution of budgetary resources, recently adopted changes to the 2006 State Budget, timely funding of non-recurrent elections may begin not earlier than the new fiscal year. Therefore, it is recommended that such elections be scheduled not earlier than March of the following year. Although this leads to a further violation of the prescribed terms by law, the committee met with these recommendations, since the lack of funding for the elections would almost certainly lead to their collapse. Taking this into account, the committee proposes to accept your rulings by appointing all of these consecutive elections on March 4, 2007, correspondingly replacing the date of the first five decrees from February 11 to March 4. This is regulation 2590, 2591, 2592, 2593, 2594. Please support these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u152	Thank you, Natalia Vladislavna. No questions? No, sit down, please. Then be careful. Taking into account the committee's proposals, I'm going to put each decision to a vote, and the election is scheduled, I stress, on March 4. There's an order at number 2590. Assignment of the election of the village head of First Travinsky. Please vote. [[13:17:23]] For 362 Copy that. Order on the next election of Chumakovsky Rural Head, 2591 decree, March 4th. [[This is the Dnipropetrovsk oblast]] Please. [[13:17:50]] For 364 It's a show. Assignment of the Osokorov Rural Head Elections, 2592 [[Hersonian Region]] Please vote. [[13:18:18]] For 372 Copy that. Order on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Ajam Rural Head, 2593, March 4. [[Kirovograda Region]] Please vote. [[13:18:42]] For 365 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the Newcelian Rural Head Elections, 2594 registration numbers. [[Ban Area]] Vote. [[13:19:08]] For 363 Copy that. Order for the appointment of alternate elections of the German Rural Head, project 2619, please vote. [[Kyiv Region, Mironovo Region]] [[13:19:33]] For 363 Copy that. Order for the appointment of the successive elections of the Tashin Rural Leader Bill 2620, please vote. [[13:20:00]] For 378 Copy that. The decision to appoint the consecutive elections of the Slavske Selvitsko head is that of Lvivščina. Registration number 2621. Please vote. [[13:20:25]] For 385 It's been decided. Two ratification issues, let's take a quick look. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0053. Shall we vote? Please vote. [[13:21:10]] For 336 Act adopted, deal ratified. And draft law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0047. Is that what you want to talk about? All right, please give me your word, Lassie. They didn't give you the gun, and I give you the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u153	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to what we are asked to vote for. First. This is the 154 million dollars that the State Export and Import Bank borrows, which, in accordance with article 2, section 1, paragraph 16, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, are credited to government debt. So the government debt of Ukraine is going to increase by $154.5. First. The other one. Undetermined loans for this loan. And if you consider what it takes by 2011, and the rate is tied to the London Interbank Market, there may be questions. Therefore, we need to think carefully about whether we should vote for it. Moreover, the vast majority of these 154 million dollars will go to the lending of Ukrainian banks, which will in turn lend something else. And only 3 million out of the total amount for the implementation of the system, if I'm not betrayed by memory, is the information of Derzeximbank. Why should this be an additional public debt? And remember the draft budget for the following year that we have external borrowing again, which is a very difficult thing to do here, than you, Adam Ivanovich, are trying to do. And it's very important to pay attention to important issues for the state that are being paid for, as they say, not one generation of people, you're trying to solve in one second, without discussion, without anything. Where is your Communist conscience, Adam Ivanovich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u154	She's with me, and I'm keeping her. Yes, Kaputin Victor, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! I want to answer those questions that have just been answered from the rostrum, and thank you for this opportunity. Well, first of all, this is a 20-year loan, five of which we don't pay the basic debt for, but we only pay interest, which is relatively small amounts. In fact, the budget burden will not be for the next five years. That's the first one. Secondly, this project is of a special nature, because credit is given not directly by “Ukreximbank” – the exporter, but through commercial banks, which is very important for the creation of the wholesale export credit market, i.e. this project still has a new innovative structural character, which is very important to it. As for the interest rate, it is clearly recorded in the contract. This interest rate is a pound, which of course changes over this period, plus 0.5 percent. If you find such conditions on other borrowings that our country does, I want to see them, look at them. I very much ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this project, because it is very useful, very important. And it'll be very effective to create conditions to stimulate our exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, one minute, Peter Alexiovich. Yeah, from the committee, I said, say a couple.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u157	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement and unanimously supported it. I remind you that everyone on the committee is represented without the exception of factions. I would like to point out that this agreement is called the Ukrainian Export Development Project. And through the bank, our Ukrainian Export and Import Bank, through direct loans to commercial banks in Ukraine, exclusively companies that have export orientation, according to approved projects, including these projects, should be considered as projects of diversification of Ukrainian exports and improvement of the balance of payments, we must support it. Ukraine has already had the right experience, and the first covenant was concluded in 2004. And we can argue that this is one of the most successful credit agreements Ukraine has ever had. Because for one dollar of credit, we had a $2.3 increase in exports of currency to Ukraine. Another important detail. All participants in the project in full pay taxes to the state budget. Thus, no argument has been made regarding the support of this draft ratification of the Law. And I would ask that we, from any policy, be completely professional about the ratification of the Law and that we all support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u158	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. I'll put it to a vote. Simonenko, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u159	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, calls were constantly made regarding professionalism and responsibility in making similar decisions. But I want to ask the Anti-Crist Coalition, like everyone else, not to vote today. Why? First of all, we need to re-examine everything since the 91st year: what loans have been collected, how have they been returned, what debt is being transferred to the state today, how will this be distributed in time? I want to reiterate, however, that when we talk about our responsibility, we take responsibility for future generations, because they will be counted for this loan. So first of all, I'm paying attention to the fact that over the last 1.5-2 years, there's been credit as a chicken flea. And now, today, let's say we're going back to credit policy again, not to the development of our own manufacturer. So I'm going to ask the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance to provide complete information, then just make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u160	I am voting on the Act on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development”, registration number 0047. Please vote. [[13:28:35]] For 275 Act adopted, deal ratified. Now. And yet, now, as we have voted, we will be able to make the final statement to Vasil Petrovich Tsushka as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. He submits a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense, registration number 1209-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u161	Sorry, read the Constitution. Baby, read the Constitution. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u162	Baby, go study the material. I see you love me so much. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A working group was established under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council to prepare a law on procurement of goods, works and services for public funds. The Working Group worked on these bills because there were more than thirty. About 30. The Working Group concluded that the current public procurement system over the past six months had, in principle, experienced a number of significant improvements, as the number of open tenders, the main competitive procurement process, had increased by 51 per cent. Tenders began not only with budgetary organizations but also with public enterprises. As a result, the implementation of the mechanism of public, parliamentary and public control. More public procurement violations have been identified, i.e. they have emerged from the shadows. However, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed by law soon in order to improve public procurement systems. Now specifically about the changes that are planned to be introduced. To date, there is a problem of fictitious tenders and tenders at high prices – a monopolistic conspiracy of participants, the promotion of only their firms, fictitious firms, the so-called “counselling”, is flourishing. To this end, the aim of saving public funds and overcoming corruption is to propose, in contrast to the existing mechanism, when procedures for the disclosure of tenders at open two-stage bids do not have the right to change the price. Enter a rule when the purchaser must make an auction price reduction. It's called a reduction. So if today's system works -- so that it's understood -- that one firm is its own and the other is fictional, and it's ultimately winning its own because it's making a lot of prices. It is now proposed that firms should not be linked, not less than three participants. Once the offer is discovered, for example, it is offered to buy computers, it is discovered – one company offers 1,000 bracelets, the other company offers 600 bracelets, and the third company offers 500 bracelets. Next, the customer offers them a reduction, a reduction and a reverse auction, a reduction. And that's where the savings really go. And here, if there's no conspiracy between three, five firms, it's virtually impossible because we're entering a register of connected firms, not allowing them. Then there is a major savings. To date, there are a number of firms that win the tender, indicating the best conditions, which result in contracting and failing to comply with the contract. That's why we're using it. Let's move on. Tender committees are being set up today, without any responsibility. We state that tender committees are approved by ministries that manage monopolies and so on and are entitled to be dissolved. And if a tender committee is dissolved, which has misbehaved a firm, this person has no right to be a member of the tender committee in any firm for more than two years. Let's move on. Today. Colleagues, the bill actually, I tried to be impartial. The pressure of the proposals was from different sides. We've made one goal clear. The questions asked were to reduce the amount of time. We've done 10 days. Let's move on. Raise the ceiling. Raised. Next. Disposal of technological situations, withdrawal of defense. That's what we did in the bill. Because of the defense. Next. For those enterprises that have a list, we have introduced a 10% right. If the firm buys 100 million, it buys 10 percent without a tender and then makes a tender to keep the process from stopping. We introduced the concept of productive cooperation. When an enterprise with a 10-year-old, 15-year-old, does not have to tender with each other, i.e. conclude a contract. Let's move on. We are introducing an interdepartmental commission that has been given the rights of the Antimonopoly Committee to which these public officials are being introduced. Next on the bill. Based on yesterday's comments on the committee, we've practically studied. And I ask you to remove the last paragraph, where 50 percent is written in the text. Then it turns out that the entire defense is being released. Because illogically, they have their own technology. Next. At the request of the Government, we have established that the Government introduces indicative prices for the products of Minsvita and Minsvita, when child food is purchased and so on, so that there are no, well, machinations. So that's the moment you've been studying. Next. Today, there is such a proposal, in the transcript I will say that in the implementation of the products of Gossreserve, the fund, the agrarian fund and the DAC “Ukraine bread”, which is bought at the expense of public funds to be used primarily by budgetary organizations, the beat of the Minobron, well and other budgetary organizations without intermediaries, because this is too much of a game. They give it to a business company, then sell it to the Minobron. If you'd like to hear it in the transcript, because it wasn't, and unfortunately we didn't discuss it on, but. I think it's a very good offer. And the current Chairman of the Goskomreserva suggested that this should be introduced. In principle, I've said that you can, I'm telling you, the bill, if it's applied and voted for it, savings involve 17 to 22 billion grivens. That money is actually in the pockets today. Next. I've made an amendment to my colleague, Mike. So he's proposing such an amendment that industrial enterprises, scientific research institutions, design bureaus of any form of property that are directly involved in the development, manufacture of industrial products, public consumption goods, and that for these enterprises is a major activity, except for enterprises that are part of state monopolies, as well as jobs, services and goods of service, namely office repairs, the purchase of service vehicles, office equipment, fuel-oil materials. That is, he suggests that, in fact, the State enterprises in the part that I did not hear should be exempted from tenders. But since it wasn't considered by the committee, I personally don't mind defining the hall. Adam Ivanovich, you have been offered such an offer. It is therefore only necessary to vote in favour of such a proposal. If we vote on the bill in the first reading and if you decide that we are voting on the second reading, we need to vote on the amendment in the meantime. Thank you. My report's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u163	Thank you. Any questions? You won't? Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's vote on the first reading now, and then we'll look at Mother's amendment. We vote in the first reading. [[13:36:52]] For 376 Copy that. You've heard the amendment of colleague Mike, the committee doesn't deny it, so let's do it this way. I propose to uphold this law as a whole with the amendment of the National MP, Mother. Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Let's separately vote on the amendment. Please, Mother, give me a minute. Turn the microphone on or go over here. Dear colleagues, two or three minutes to go, but we'll choose more. Please, Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u164	I have only one request for everyone. All forms of ownership of the enterprises that produce the products must be in one condition. That's why this position is in the country, and it's written in everyone. So state-owned or not state-owned enterprises, in part of a major production, should be in one, or they're not in the same condition. I'm asking you to bring it in. Where it comes to the acquisition of furniture, of machines, of all other services, it's all possible to do so, and there's nothing else to organize if one enterprise by law, one enterprise by one. The other one. I'd like to say that there's a very controversial question, these are the state funds that they rely on. We took that question down, although the money of state-owned enterprises has never been state-owned in their lives, it becomes state-owned when.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u165	Turkov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! You know I heard your amendment. The only question I had was, for example, are the monopolies -- NAK Naftogaz, are they also state-owned enterprises? What, do you want to print out their tender purchase schemes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u167	Right under the terms of this proposal, all of these are excluded. Monopolies have no bearing on this, and this is indicated directly in the amendment, only by manufacturing enterprises with a record of production in the constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u168	This is written in addition to enterprises that are part of state monopolies. So that's the answer to the question. All right, have a seat, please. I'm putting my colleague Mike's amendment to the vote. Who's in charge of backing up. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:40:02]] For-46 I guess it's not enough. Then let's take it as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[13:40:26]] For 362 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's going to be different, okay, okay. Factions: Region Party - 184, Yulia Timoshenko Block - 96, Our Ukraine - 27, Socialists - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 4. Some factions insist that they be given one minute at a time, please register with the faction per minute. No, no. It doesn't matter yet. Dear colleagues! You raise your hands with motives, you don't have motives. So the faction has a right minute to say, and I told the factions to register. Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u169	I believe that today is the very day for which our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens, have resolved many questions. And so socialists say that those ministers who are now appointed by us as an anti-crisis coalition should understand what we hope and will support them in a way that will benefit the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u170	Alexeyev's handing over Simone, please, Gnatenko next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u171	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this is all about bribes, including the leadership of the Kyrovograd District Administration in connection with the elections in Kirovograd. You heard all this yesterday, it's simple! And I don't think we have the right to leave this room today without creating a special commission of inquiry regarding the elections in Kirovograd. The proposals are, the draft regulation 2651 has already been printed and reproduced and I believe that in order to support those who are protesting today by holding a rally in Kirovograd, defending their right, their right to choose and their freedom of choice, we must support them as the peoples. I believe that the national MP of our previous call to Pozakov is chosen by the mayor of Kirovgrad fairly, honestly, in a principled struggle, but those who today's orange team is headed by sabotage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u172	Gunatenko Lev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Mike Vitalia Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u174	Mother Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u175	I'd like to address all the deputies here after my amendment. I want to inform each of them that there is an anti-constitutional thing done today when the money of state enterprises has never been the money of the state. And we must, the Association and the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists, turn to the Constitutional Court. The Minister of Justice confirmed that. All the ministers confirmed it. I had a conversation about this with the “Regions”, which power has won, I said only one thing, in this tender work is so good for the state, and there is destruction of the state. For Kyiv companies, it is calculated that participation in the tender program depends on the size of the business, the average company is a million, the large company is 18 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u176	Eutukhov Vasil is not. Then Shevchuk Sergei, “Blok Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u177	Please give Andrew the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u178	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u179	Thank you. You know, me always, I agree with the previous speaker, we always go out on these, on the issue of solicitation, depending on the change of power. We can't change politics by changing power. There's got to be a clear limit to what you can do and what you can't do, where there's a public procurement policy, it can't change that power change, or that there's a change in one or the other manager. Because you know, there's the Anti-Crist Coalition now, and they don't think there's a crisis. So I think, with things like this and things like this that happened today with the assignment, you're finally going to create this crisis that you're going to be successfully fighting on the same principle. The Communists remember the comsomol, who at first created hardships and then fought them successfully. So here, you're creating a crisis, and then you're going to fight it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u180	Andrew, you don't think you were in the commsomol. How do you know? Yes, dear fellows, there was an exchange. There was a proposal to create a TSC. Okay. Then let's do this, I'm asking you to do it in a fixed order and we're definitely going to do 6 numbers. It is, it is given to you. Okay. We'll create it, we'll create it. Please sign up for “Victane”. Yes, colleagues, they are. We have 30 minutes with you. Please, Vasil Evtukhov. Who? Freeman, please follow him, Cosub. Who? You're a free man. So, six minutes, please, Freeman. Eutukhov and Kozub gave their three minutes to the Freeman. Please have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to draw your attention, as well as the attention of the electorate, the radio listeners to the painful human problems, the carelessness and neglect of them, the rights-based bodies of the Winnitz region, the personal receptions of citizens, communication with party and public assets, journalists, MPs on the ground, I have become aware of facts that I find hard to believe are not to make peace with them. Let me give you a few examples. I was surprised by the practice of the Wynnick District Attorney’s Office and its head of Schmorgun. Contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens’ Appeal, complaints and citizens’ claims are addressed to those authorities and officials whose actions are being accused, even my parliamentary address to the prosecutor regarding the quarries made by the Prosecutor's Office of the Regional Department and the administration of the administrative paradise of the Lipovec region over Marchuk Viktor Stepanović, the farmer of the Visnja farm, has been addressed to these officials. By the way, from the experience of working in the Winnitsk district, I've found that it is this node that is the head of the administration's paradise, the district attorney, the head of the district police department, and sometimes the head of the district court that is the most powerful corrupt hub that has to be cut. Because that's where corruption starts and thrives, the circle message, the abuse of people. Meanwhile, the farmer, with all the valuable documentation on his hands -- his farm, taking a government loan of 300,000 dollars for his development -- has been suffering abuse from a group of criminals and crooks for more than six months. The bandits took away his farm, prevented him from working, persecuted him, and the district’s current owners, protected his actions, and his complaints and petitions give him a note that there is no criminal element. The district attorney’s office has never been able to meet the victims, in principle and fairly, to provide an objective assessment. A large apartment building was built in Vronovica district in 92. It was built by the Ministry of Defense. To which the Ministry of Defense acquired ownership and distributed apartments among military personnel. However, in February 2006, the violators broke down the door on their own, threw away the property of the owners, and took over their homes. Addressing the Chief of Police in the Winnicki district of Dremluga and the Prosecutor to the district regarding the use of measures against individual violators did not have any effect. These guides are limited to formal receipts, and 40 families of military personnel live in a barracks with ropes and sheets. On October 26, I received no reply from the district prosecutor for a thorough examination of these facts. Next. In the 1990s, Vinniemszkolgospbud began the construction of a 32 - apartment apartment building. The inhabitants built it at their own expense. However, in the course of the bankruptcy procedure, the arbitrator sold the house to a private enterprise, whose director, along with the criminals, denied the rights of residents in the presence of the police clerk, knocked out the doors and windows in all 32 apartments and threw away the property of the owners. No action has been taken against the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the governor of the Vinnitsk district. In Žmerinka, by a decision in December 87, a land plot was allocated for the construction of a large apartment house in the private sector, provided that residents of the sector would be allocated housing. To this day, however, the disabled second group with Kozlov’s diabetes, Sergey Petrovich, had never received a home. His appeal to local self - government authorities had no positive effect. The decision of the Žmerin Court concerning the granting of housing to Kozlov has not yet been implemented. And the last. I would like to inform the voters of the Winnitsk Region and the members of the Supreme Council of the practice of human resources appointments in the Winnitsk Region on just one example. In the Bali Paradise there is a vacant position as a substitute for humanitarian issues. There's a pretty decent candidate for Vojciekhovsky Igor Leonidovich. This is an ex-military officer who graduated from Moscow High Command School, a heavy-athletic sports master, one of the organizers of the Gaverla Ascension in honor of the 60th anniversary of Victory. Rewarded by the Honourable Literacy of the Viennese Authority and the District Council. The head of the administration, heads of the regional political parties: Socialist, Fatherland, Party of Regions, Ukraine. The president of the Ukrainian Mountain Sport Federation, a district organization of the Ukrainian National Society, expressed concerns and recommendations for appointments. He was rejected by the governor, motivated by his lack of experience in this position. In the absence of time, unfortunately, there is still a range of abuses and mismanagement that I cannot do, but a similar shameful practice that causes moral and material harm to the people of the leaders involved must not only be called to account but also raise questions about their position. I would like to warn these leaders that in the future, with this attitude towards the people, to the MPs, I'm going to ask the MPs in Henprocuror, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u182	Yes, thank you. Jakimenko gives the word Popescu. Please, Ivan Vasilovich. A school to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u183	Thank you. Popescu, faction of the Party of “Regions”, Montenegro region. Fellow dignitaries, I would like to read to you today a letter that came to me from a family that had suffered a terrible tragedy. National Deputy of the Ukraine of Popescu Ivan Vasilovich. 23.08.2006 As a result of the motor accident of a van carrying passengers on the route Černovtsi-Kiev, my daughter Popova Diana, 16 years old, and another five of our relatives, the heirs of the village of Lower Petrovci Strožinetsa District: Gržinka Mirča 42, Gržinka Diana 17 years old, Gržinka Oleg 15 years old, Saprikina Constance 57 years old, Solodeeva Valentina 40. In addition to our relatives, five more Montenegrins have also died. An investigation into this tragedy is carried out by the Directorate General for the Kyiv Region of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The investigation states that this van, without a licence, carried in a private manner. But the Grzynka family members show that the tickets for the trip were purchased in the Sprinter cash register two or three days before the visit. They found the company's business card in the clothes of the deceased. It is also unclear why Kamaz, the driver of the first collision in this accident with Zil, did not block part of the journey, provided adequate security measures, did not even burn the camouflage. My daughter, Popov Diana, was the best student in Kiev school number 243, the only candidate for the gold medal. The Romanian and English languages could undoubtedly benefit Ukraine, which it loved unconditionally in the future. She was a potential breadwinner of the family, since our second daughter, a disabled first group, spent all her holidays in Bukovina in the village of Lower Petrovca in her grandmother. And on the last trip, he took a terrible, painful death, and only I, Father, could identify my daughter's body. In the light of my daughter's memory, our relatives and other victims, we ask you to make appropriate parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to investigate this tragedy objectively, so that all those responsible for the killing of people will be punished.” And here are the signatures. Dear colleagues! Why was I forced to read from this rostrum? You can't imagine what five graves are in one house, you can't imagine the problem that this family is facing, but the MVDs are trying to. Therefore, when someone says that Minister Lucenko had worked very well the previous one, I would like to draw attention to these very facts, which really show how the Ministry of Internal Affairs works. Taking advantage of the fact that there is still a new Minister of the Interior, Vasili Petrovich Tsusko, I ask that his new subordinates take this transcript and respond. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u184	School, please, Andrew. After him, Silchenko gave the word to the Sadducees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u185	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished radio listener, esteemed Head! School of Andrews, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, before I begin my speech, I would like to welcome everyone once again with what is going on today 15 years from the date of the referendum on affirming Ukraine's independence, because at first it was declared in the walls, later it was declared referendum and constitutionally established in 94. So I want to welcome all those to whom it is a holiday. Of course, for some parts of Ukraine this is not a holiday, they regret living in an independent Ukrainian state. And it's a shame that these forces are even in parliament, but even they live in an independent country and they have to work to make the country where they live a happier and more worthy life. So I would like, first of all, to stop at what happened today in the Supreme Council. I'm not going to question the legality, the illegality of processes, I'm going to point out that everything that doesn't happen, in principle, is going to be better. And what you will see today is that you will see that the President has the courage to re-apply this candidature to the Supreme Council and will have enough intelligence to either, thanks to his absence from the Antichrist Coalition, vote for Tarasuk and be in charge. So the government will be incomplete, it will give the President two months to dissolve the Supreme Council and, in principle, it will probably happen. And I'm glad that the faction of the Party of Regions is studying documents after the action has taken place. And I think with the same success you will vote in favour of the Secretary of Defense. Work on it, because as fast as you do it. Why didn't you wait 10 days? And legally, without haste, after considering all the bills, consider. Why did you do that? Because you're in a hurry. You know that the patience of the people is not infinite. You're in a hurry, and that's why you're wrong. And you're wrong, you're speeding up your end. You will see that this is what will happen, because he who is an old saying will come with the sword from the sword and die. You came here illegally, unfairly, and so quickly. But I would like to say, just a few minutes left, that one of the representatives of the anti-crisis coalition has passed a law on language in Ukraine, where, if there are 3 percent of the population speaking another language, another language will be recognized as territorial in one country or another. I propose to modernize this bill. If there is one person who wants to speak another language, please bring it in. If only there were 112 languages in Ukraine. And government officials have to speak all 112 languages in Ukraine. Then it'll be easier for you to work, and I think it'll be more developed, because anything you want to talk about is absurd. And you can hate Ukraine, just do it quietly, don't talk about it in your ear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u186	Thank you. Andrew, do MPs also have 112? We're not civil servants. Garden, please. After him, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u187	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. A week ago, the city’s head was elected in three cities. This also happened in the city of Kirovograd. As the Socialists predicted, these elections have been squandered. Once again, the mechanism for permissiveness of the members of the local territorial electoral commission worked. The contestants knew that at the level of the regional election committees, the Socialists would not be able to falsify, for 64 of the 127 heads of the electoral boards were members of the Socialist Party. And the socialists have fulfilled their duties honestly. Then came the experience of the 100th constituency, particularly the Hilchenk-led TVC. In Kirovgrad, there was also a police force that did not allow the bags to divide or have any other attacks, as it had been before. In 30 to 40 minutes to 24 hours, until the possible withdrawal of one of the candidates from the race, the territorial electoral commission, without quota, removed Nicholas from the election by decision number 64, with two persons with a pressure of about 200 to 150. The head of TVK Bagno in his health lay on the table because he could not sit, and the more he held the meeting. It's just violence, despite the law. The TVC made an illegal decision to remove Nicholas from the election. Then the TV was closed in the room and it was as if they refused to issue Nicola’s decision number 64 to remove him from the election, and the TVC was not allowed in the courtrooms who brought the relevant documents to the court. For an hour and a half, the court officials knocked on the door, pleading with the court. Such actions by the TVC have led the Lenin Local Court to fail to consider the legal requirements of the voters regarding fair elections. Little did Chairman Slipchenko forget to make a decision on the “extinct” stamps in the bulletin against the name of Niculin, and so the southern elections were held, including with regard to Niculin. After the election, the TVC continues for a week to fight the winner of the election with Puzakov, who won the most votes. Orders are made to prevent the city’s leader, Puzakov, who has won honestly. Thus, the Supreme Council initiates the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into the illegal actions of the Kirovograd TVC. I agreed to join this committee. After all, you have to put a dot in this action not only of this TVC but also of the 100th constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u188	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. After him Oniszczuk gave the word to Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u189	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I'm just saying because we're being listened to by the radio people right now, I know I beat Puzakov, but out of 250,000 votes for him, 9 votes for him. But elections are choices. Dear Ukrainians! I'm talking to you because we actually have an empty hall somewhere, maybe 7-8 people's deputies, but it's natural, it's different. I think I'd like to use these two and a half minutes to give everyone a chance on this weekend to think about this. This week has been a very short week, as our Ukrainian history with you. On the one hand, everyone probably already understood, every thinking person in Ukraine realized that the actual completion of the cleansing, this word came into our vocabulary recently, the cleansing of democratic and patriotic forces from the Ukrainian government. Minister Grizzenko remains and President Viktor Yushchenko remains in line. The ring around it narrows down. Because of this, I think at this difficult time today, you might want to consider whether it was worth signing those agreements or whether it was worth taking the steps that had already been taken. We are on the verge of changing our foreign policy, we are on the verge of changing our internal policy. It's very sad, it's very bitter that at the 16th year of independence and the Baltic countries have gone far ahead, and we Ukrainians are still mingling in our Ukrainian swamp. However, I would like to say that this week there has been a unique historical event, and the Ukrainian Parliament has come up very, very high, which has had the courage to break the ring of our history, to break the back of our history, still be able to fold in this place, to grow to a pile. I mean, this is the adoption of a bill that eventually took so many years, 70 whole years to wait. We have, in fact, some 70 years like cycles when we can tell the truth through them. And yet for today, our story is renewed. I would like to tell you, Ukrainian, with such an opportunity. By 33 C.E., sociologists had discovered that patriotism in eastern Ukraine was several times greater than that in Western Ukraine. And after the famine, a shocking fact, a remarkable fact, after the famine, the patriotic potential became much higher in western Ukraine than in eastern Ukraine. That's what Holodomor is. And what we are now perhaps reaping from this distinction and the fragility of our nation is also from that year 33. But justice is also for those who do injustice today to remember that sooner or later, but that justice will become manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u190	Mikola Jacobina, please. The carpenter handed over the word, to prepare the helmet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u191	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor. ” Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, by order of the faction of our Ukraine, I will tell you about the egregious violations of the Ukrainian Film Act. The independence of the judicial system from other branches of power is axiomatic for democracy. This does not mean that when the courts work in the interests of society, they clearly adhere to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Regrettably, today’s practice in Ukraine shows that judicial authorities often become a tool for completely wrongful acts. For example, on October 16, 2006, the Kyiv Court of Appeal overturned government decree No. 20 of January 16, 2006 on mandatory duplication of portions of films in Ukrainian. So this court, in a college of three judges, satisfied the lawsuit of Ukrainian filmmakers for a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the quota of films in Ukrainian. By doing so, he overturned the decision of the first court that dismissed the action. This ruling of the Court of Appeal is contrary to article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography, mandatory duplication or sounding, or subtitling foreign production films for distribution in Ukraine of state language. The government's decision was taken to work out the mechanism of this duplication, and it allowed moviemakers to get their work done during the transition period in accordance with the requirements of the law, so that they could eventually go to some extent of the duplicate. It is not excluded that this decision by the Kyiv Court of Appeal is openly ordered, since the court has taken a decision in contravention of Ukraine’s cinematography law. Clearly, the law is valid and must be enforced, including by moviemakers. The court annulled only the Cabinet's ruling, which now complicates the work for both those who demonstrate films and those who control them. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if it is a Ukrainian government, is obliged to appeal to the Supreme Court of the Master of Ukraine: “Our Ukraine’s faction requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out its constitutional duty in this part”. In Ukraine, films are to be shown in the national language, noting that many recent premieres have demonstrated that Ukrainian translations of films do not yield to any Russian - speaking quality. We protect Ukrainian, we protect our rights. And today, while welcoming you, dear Ukrainians, with the fifteenth anniversary of the All-U.S. referendum, I urge you that we cannot tolerate discrimination in a sovereign state regarding the realization of one of the most important natural rights of the nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u192	Please, Dmitri Schlemko, get ready. Korj gave the word to the chariot girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u193	Dmitry Schlemko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Respectable compatriots! Among the many issues that concern the absolute majority of the population of Ukraine today is one of the most important: the problem of poverty. And that's only natural, because today's Ukrainian society is characterized by the industrial state's unimaginable breakup, which is more precisely the gap between the incomes of a bunch of rich people and the largest part of the population. Statistics show that 5 percent of the population in Ukraine today is rich, and 70 percent are poor and poor. So it would be fair to say that Ukraine is a poor country. Poverty is defined by the methodology of the World Bank for Eastern Europe and the former USSR as income of $4.3 per capita. That means that the minimum consumer budget that is going to provide more or less normal life today should be 650 dollars per month of income per person. This amount would be sufficient as a minimum level for food, clothing, and rent. What do we have today? The subsistence minimum is 472 bracelets, which are 178 dollars, or 30 percent less than the defined international institutions, that the minimum pension, the average monthly wage break is even higher for 2007, is virtually the same, as the minimum pension will increase from 380 to 395 dollars or by 3.9 percent. And the minimum wage is from 400 to 450 dollars, or 12.5 percent when the price index goes up by 13.5 percent per year. And that's because the positive experience, how you can radically solve social acquisitions of this type is. This is the work of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, when the minimum pension in 2005 was paid in real 332 dollars, and the wage rose by 32.8 percent. What is the reason? Why is this attitude toward the destitute? The answer is simple: the lack of interest in this by many authorities, for whom rapid self-enrichment and environment syndrome is decisive. Therefore, the sense of the proverb that today walks among the common people: “The poorer the people, the more expensive the cars for those who care for their welfare.” Those in power today are not interested in the fact that much of our fellow countrymen are trapped in a culture of poverty. That's more than half of the poor among those where one of the adults works. That today the new poor are, unfortunately, an intellectual part of society — doctors, educators, scientists, engineers. That low purchasing power of the population is a serious obstacle to economic growth. This situation and the consequences of it are rightly asked by the authorities to find the answer in the near future: Will the educated and cultural citizens of Ukraine be able to accept the average monthly wage of South Asia and Africa for a long time? When will the resources of natural patience be exhausted — in winter, in spring, or in summer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u194	Thank you. Only, Dmitre Vasilovich, for justice's sake, the pensions that you talked about set up the government of Yanukovic and then the Supreme Council Act. And the next government has already paid for them. Yes, please, Koleschenka. I prepared myself, and Alexeyev passed on the word Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u195	Faction Party regions, Vadim Kolesnichenko, Sevastopol. Dear colleagues, there is a constant talk of democracy and human rights in this room. However, the Russian-speaking population remains, as always, at the secondary level and is declared a second colon. Regrettably, national broadcasters, sorry, Nacsovite on television and radio, despite the requirements of the law on the need to divide the sexes in Russian-speaking regions during the broadcasting period between Russian and Ukrainian, violated the law for Sevastopol radio broadcasting and now, at 19 hours, radio broadcasts on Sevastopol for only one hour, which is less than 10 per cent, is broadcast in Russian. This is for the region where 91 per cent of the ethnic Russian population. I have a question about the purpose of these national constituencies trying to create a conflict. To what end, they are raping the Russian-speaking population in south-east Ukraine. Today, I was informed from Sevastopol that radio radio Mayak is prohibited. These are all the consequences of an ultra-nationalist trade unionist who is essentially the position of nationalists who destroy people who want to hear, see and confess their native language. And it is no coincidence that yesterday my colleague on the parliamentary group in Knesset Ukraine-Israel addressed me, but I am the leader of the Ukrainian-Israeli group in our Council that the facts of the sale of anti-Semitic literature have been identified both in Kiev and in Parliament. Unfortunately, that was the case. The secretariat of the Supreme Council has taken steps in a timely manner to inform my colleague Noodleman. But think about it, racism, nationalism, in fact, these are the options of fascism that grow in our democratic state, these are all the consequences of reckless national policies, if we are the people of Ukraine, we unite all nationalities, if we create a Ukrainian nation only for Ukrainians, I cannot be present in such a nation. And I demand that those bills that we are introducing, I introduce two bills to amend the system in Nacrad on television and radio that regional broadcasters should not be burdened with language at all, but for the national broadcaster who broadcasts to Ukraine, the quota should be reduced to 50 per cent for one simple reason, even in the Constitution, the Russian language is set out in a separate line, even in the Ukrainian-USSR Language Act. And we must do everything we can to ensure that every person in Ukraine feels like a citizen of Ukraine, a citizen of Ukraine, loves the country, protects it and knows that no one will humiliate him or insult him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u196	Thank you. Eugene Marmazov, please. Get ready, Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I would also like to raise the problem that Nikolai Ilic Sadowa has raised for me, which is what we are doing in the early elections and how we calculate the results. Right now, we have this bad practice where people on political grounds are not allowed to be elected. And that's what we're getting now. Here's one last example: the election of the city of Kirovograd. Well, I don't want to. Nikolai Ilic told you in detail. In fact, he correctly explained what had been done there. As a result of the elections, Communist Puzako Vladimir Tikhović, a former national MP, won the victory. He's a famous man there, in Kirovograd. Winning. What's going on now? It is now open, I would say, a totalitarian work to prevent recognition of the results of the elections. Is that how this election went? Elections have passed. We're done. There are wet seal protocols. They were double-checked, brought in, transferred to the city’s territorial commission. They're sealed. It's two days old. Then they realized that nothing was going to play on those protocols. They start playing the show, making complaints. It's been two days, no complaints. Two days later, there was a complaint in every polling station, and I think it was 125. At first, the complaint was neither confirmed by an act nor by anything. Complaints are practically written with one hand. Now they're dropping off new protocols at night. What's going on? What, there's no power? There's power. Who's the governor? Recently appointed, two months ago, a young boy from Our Ukraine who had not actually done anything useful in the field. But I doubt he'll do anything. And now he's done all the work to prevent a communist from being elected mayor of the city of Kirovograd. The D.A.'s office, would you say, well, what do we have? This is Medvedchuk speaking, even if he's looking, well, what kind of people sit on the ground, the prosecutors. Our comrades, here were the people's deputies, by the way, from another faction, went from the Party of the Regions to Gorbatyuk, and went to the city's prosecutor and said, "What's going on?" And he says, "Who are you, you're deputies there, and here you are zero, here we are, what we think we should do." That's why I think we really need an emergency, and here we have it, we haven't been able to confirm this committee. She must certainly go and figure out how the prosecution is doing, how this Chernish is doing. As the CEC does, there's a CICA representative sitting there doing nothing. And in fact, it ends with a man winning, a worthy man, and now he's not going to be confirmed. I am addressing the people of Kirovograd: protect your choices, protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u198	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u199	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Sergei Mishchenko. We, the Ukrainian National Deputies of various factions, former co-workers of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office: Mishchenko, Piscun, Sweden, Vernidubova, Pshonka, Olijnik, Zabarski welcome our colleagues to all those who have dedicated their lives to the Office of the Prosecutor of Ukraine, with a professional holiday – the 15-year anniversary of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. Recognizing all the importance of today, I would like to point out that the prosecutor's office, under any circumstances, must always stand away from the political processes that are taking place in the country and remain a pattern of justice and impartiality. We should not make any political or commercial orders. After all, with the name of the prosecutor, the average Ukrainians are primarily associated with honesty and justice. Professionalism and integrity should be the basis for the work of the prosecutor’s office as a model for the entire legal system. To our deep conviction, prosecutors do not in any way have the right to use the media to determine their relationship, but to prove their right, or point of view, only through judicial decisions. It should be remembered that the prosecutor’s office still has many tasks — public weight, including the fight against corruption as an integral part of organized crime. The protection of citizens' rights is that you have to work to ensure that all state mechanisms work in a stable way. Today, on our professional holiday with you, we would like to express our special appreciation not only to active workers but also to all the veterans of the prosecutor’s office who have made a significant contribution to Ukraine’s development have passed on the accumulated experience to the new generation of prosecutors. You have a low bow, our venerable veterans. So we wish to honor all the employees of the Ukrainian procurator’s office with the privilege of carrying out their whole lives of faithful service, unquenchable pursuits of truth and justice, strong health for you and your families, happiness, well - being, and success in the professional field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-01-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to express themselves in various ways had the opportunity to do so. I remind you that next week the national MPs are working on committees and MP factions. On December 6, as we voted today, there will be a plenary session to consider them, plenary sessions to consider them in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2007 and budget issues and issues related to Ukraine's accession to WTO. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
