ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:47]] They registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I am bringing to your attention the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 12 January 2006. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 10 laws and 11 regulations were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of one bill, one bill was designed to be drafted, two bills and one draft regulation were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, two laws have been passed in a new edition. Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules, spend 30 minutes on Wednesday to present proposals, statements, messages, information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u2	Today. I said Wednesday, right? Sorry, fellow Members, we have 30 minutes on Friday for the national MPs to make proposals, to announce applications, requests, and messages. Please, Your Honor, sign up for the speech. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. People's MPs have been asked: Leonida KRAVČUKA to the President of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the Zakartat region and non-compliance with the Supreme Council Order of June 1, 2005. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:01]] For-151 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:23]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the request to the President of Ukraine from the first President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:05:54]] For 235 We're back. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:23]] For 244 Decision taken. Oleg TJAGNIBOK to the President of Ukraine, acting as Prime Minister for the creation of the State Committee for Language Policy, responsible for the protection and dissemination of Ukrainian language. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:56]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Groups of deputies to the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNB, the Defence Minister, foreign affairs for the protection of the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people, the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine, and the security of the national security of the State. [[Gavrish, scribe, mazurenko]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:35]] For-183 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:57]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Gregory OMELČENA to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, performing the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs to verify the financial and economic activities of Rosukrenerego, to establish its founders and investors, to verify the participation in the preparation of the agreement between the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Gazprom and Roskrenergo twice by the judge Semin Mogilevich. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:43]] For 280 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:04]] For 288 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 59, Communists - 56, "Our Ukraine" - 1, National Party - 39, Block Timoshenko - 28, SPI - 29, National Block - 20, SDPU (o) - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 9, "Rebirth" - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 1, "Reforms and Order" - 4, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 12, non-fractional - 8. Leonida KRAVČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the renewal of the conditions of pay for employees of national cultural institutions and creative groups. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:10:07]] For 267 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:10:28]] For 254 Decision taken. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the Gasification of the Public Education School of the village of Cibulów in the Monastirishtish region of the Cherkas region. Victor TURMANOVA to the acting prime minister on the crisis situation that took place in the working groups of Minvogprom mines, which extracts coking coal. Groups of deputies to the executive duty of the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Liaison to improve public administration in the field of transport, to prevent the liquidation of a profitable state-owned enterprise, the “Equal Regional Office for the Coordination and Control of Road Transport” and similar enterprises, to prevent the embezzlement of their assets. [[CARMASINE, DELIVERY, AKIRCO]] Mikoli Komara to the prime minister's executive responsibility to fund the programme to eliminate the effects of submerging the territory in cities and villages of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to serve as Prime Minister for the purchase of diagnostic equipment and inventory for the children’s ward of the central district hospital in the town of Hmilnik Vinnitsky. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to compensate the victims of the damage caused by a plane crash at the Sknelly Airport. Anton KESSE to the prime minister's duty to threaten the environmental disaster in the Odessa region. Alexander GOLUBA to the prime minister’s responsibility to provide the disabled with a telephone connection. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the prime minister’s responsibility for the capital repair of the road to the villages of the village of Lubar district of Žitomir. Vladimir ÄŠENKA is responsible for the Prime Minister's responsibility to threaten the emergency in the region of Czerkas region as a result of insufficient gas supply. VOLADIMARY PEACE to the prime minister's duty to disengage the inhabitants of Cherkasa from central heating Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister for non-payment by the Government of funds for compensation to victims in a non-contributory manner caused by a plane crash at the Sknilova Airport in July 2003. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the prime minister's responsibility for the construction of an alienation zone around the Chernobyl AES centralized nuclear fuel depot. Mikoli Komara to the prime minister's duty to clear the Bilgorod Canal in the cities of Odessa. Alexander MOROZA to the prime minister's responsibility to implement the Ukrainian-Cubinian programme for the recovery of Ukrainian children in Cuba in 2006. Katerina SAMOLIK to the prime minister’s responsibility to finance partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production. Stepan HMARI to the prime minister, the Attorney-General, on the facts of the illegal alienation of property of the Open Shareholder Society “Clean Metals” and the deliberate introduction of society to bankruptcy. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the prime minister's duty to requisition the underfunding of subsidies for the construction of pipelines and the gasification of the population sites foreseen by the budget for 2005 for the Kitzman electoral district No.203 of the Czernovetsk Region. Anatolia Rachánské to the Acting Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNBO, Head of the Federation of Trades concerning the certification of members of the solicitation committee of the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund, which led to the collapse of sanatorium treatment and rehabilitation in 2006. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General’s Office for the violation of legislation by officials of the Ministry of Education and Science. MICHELLE RADIO to perform the duties of Vice-Prime Minister Kirilenko with regard to the retirement of persons who worked underground and work with harmful and difficult working conditions. VOLADIMARY PUTINSK to the Acting Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in connection with the non-execution by the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 September 2005. Tamara PROSKURATO the Attorney General on the violation of the legislation on the protection of work by officials of the “Switany” branch of the state firm Agrofirma “Schachteer” of the name of the Assembly in the Donetsk region. Efima FIXA to the Attorney General on the violation of the Law “On Citizens’ Appeal” and the exceedment of official powers by the procurator of the Kodim district of Odessa. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Holding Foundation, for the annulment of the illegal privatization of the State Enterprise Odeska Film Studios and for the involvement of the guilty. Vassili SALIGINA to the Attorney General for the administration of administrative resources and for the bribery of voters in Kharkiv. Mr Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Attorney-General on the responsibility of the head and members of the Central Electoral Commission who have grossly violated the Constitution and the Law “On the Election of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the delay in investigating a criminal case involving the abuse of the director of a society with a limited responsibility “New Way”. Mr Paul MUTCHANA to the Attorney General on the illegal reorganization of the agricultural enterprise “Lazorka” in the Poltav region. Kseniya LAPINOY to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs on the floor of the documents, the General Administration of the Land of Kiev and the falsification of the text of the decision of Kyivrada of October 27, 2005. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General concerning the implementation of the Law on Prices and Prices in the Community Service System of the Peoples of the Individual Regions of Ukraine. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, acting as the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the effects of the Chernobyl disaster on illegal crime management of the State Academy of Cultural Management and the Arts of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. [[GRIGOROVIC, DAVIGA, THANJUK AND OTHERS]] John SCHEDULE to the Attorney General about the unsatisfactory performance of official duties by the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv in a criminal case involving the granting of money belonging to a foreign company. Tamara Proscuratou to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of officials of the Attorney General’s Office in the investigation of a criminal case against a resident of the city of Uzhgrad. FIXA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA on the illegal sale of the Kodima Hotel in the Odessa region. VYACHESLA KOVALJA to the Attorney General for the protection of the civil rights of Dmitr Museyalyan. Valeria SAMPLAVSK AND MICHALI SHERSHUN to the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the abuse of the position of coworkers in the road inspection of the city of Bila Church in the investigation of a car accident. Anatolia Seminogui to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for meeting the requirements of distribution legislation and the use of budgetary resources to provide housing for those affected by the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Igora NASALICA to the Attorney General on the falsification of evidence and the abuse of investigators and prosecutors of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska and the Dnipropetrovsk district. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the SBA, Head of the DPA for the abuse of the construction of the Kiev - Odessa motorbike. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the fact that a compromising card has been distributed, said the “Our Ukraine” Block. MICHAEL SETINE to the Attorney General for removing obstacles to receiving documents from the Hustian Paradise State Office for the privatization of the land by a private entrepreneur. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the excess of authority and official authority on the signs of crime by officials of the National Medical Museum. Olga GINZBURG to the Attorney General for illegal removal of a dining room from the entire airport complex of the city of Konotap Sumska district and for sale at a reduced price. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors on the commission of a terrorist act in Energodar, to assist members of a criminal organization from the prosecutor’s office and the Board of Directors in Energodari, which is an inappropriate response to the terrorist activities of a group of people who pose a threat to the life and health of their citizens. Alexander BONDARCHUKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the decisions of the Kharkiv Region, which resulted in the loss of the city’s citizens’ right to use the green recreation zone and the threat of its destruction. Mr Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney-General for misconduct by officials of the Melitopol United State Tax Inspectorate to a limited-liability association “Melitopolska Market”. Orestes KLIMPUSH to the Attorney General on the abuse of office, the disclosure of commercial and service secrets by officials of the tax authorities, the opposition to the economic activity of the Open Shareholder Association “UkrPlastik”. The Group of Deputies to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, acting as Prime Minister, Head of the DPA, Head of the Central Intelligence Agency, Head of the Court of Auditors for the use of administrative resources, the abuse of the powers of the President of Ukraine, the illegal use of public budget funds. [[CORSACKOV, TURMANOV, PANASIAN]] Vladimir Paka to the executive responsibility of the Justice Minister for the execution of judicial decisions and the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the State Executive Service and the Kyiv District Office of Justice for the failure to execute judicial decisions. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the National Bank for the fraudulent actions of employees at the exchange point. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs in the criminal investigation into the theft of property in the village of Krasnosilla, in the region of Kyrovograd. Ms. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the improper consideration of the MP’s appeal by the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv region for the collection of debts for agricultural work by a brigade of workers from the village of Močulište Dubrovicki district of the Plain region. A PANASIAN Oleg to the Minister of Industrial Policy’s duties regarding the situation around the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Mr. Vladimir PETREN is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ duties in the field of identity identification. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General on the legality of changing the management of a limited liability society called “Cold-Lux” and the promotion of domestic law enforcement officials. Anton KESSE to the Minister of Justice’s duty to develop legislation on juvenile justice. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the closure of the Gaddaecki District Liaison Node in Poltavsk. Group of deputies to the executive duties of the Minister of Agrarian Policy and the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the DPA on the verification of the state tax status of the State budget of the Lochwich alcohol plant. [[SLAUTA, MAKEENKO, SAMOFALOV AND OTHERS]] Mikhail DOBKIN to the Ministry of Industrial Policy on the Legality of Deprivation of the Proton Central Casual Construction Office, not the residences that belonged to the State in the Supreme Council. Larissa VAZAČENKO to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the problem of non-payment of salaries to employees of the Nabutyvian branch of society with a limited responsibility of private Agro “Cherkasi”. VICTOR DIVORCE TO THE EXERCISE OBLIGATION OF THE Minister of Education and Science regarding the award of a computer class to the public school No. 28 of the city of Žitomir. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Acting Minister of Transport and Communications, the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the maintenance of the railway connection to the populated areas of the Chernigiv region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with the unlawful, illegal actions of the employees of the Kirovograd District Office of Justice regarding the citizen of Perkaluk, the village of Stara Osot of Kirovograd. Victor ANTEMUCA to the executive responsibility of the Justice Minister for the conflict situation between the management of the Pension Fund in the Oldomasian Region and the Chief Executive of the Pension Fund in the Vinicki region. GOVERNMENTAL to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of legislation, direct obstruction of journalistic activities by media officials, who reported on the open trial of the murder of journalist George Gongadze on January 9, this year. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister's executive role in the family, youth and sport in connection with the failure to provide information on the adoption of orphans by foreign citizens Mr. Alexander GRANOVSYG under the responsibilities of the Minister of Defence as to the rightfulness of transfers of property and land to former military units of the Ministry of Defence to the municipal property of the community of Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Igor ŠURMI to the Acting Ministry of Health, Head of the Lugansk State Administration, for delaying officials of the Department of Health of the Luhansk District State Administration with a view to treating a childhood disability. Igor NASALIKA to the Acting Minister of the Interior, Head of the U.S.S.A. regarding the deliberate arson of an assistant consultant’s car. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Acting Ministry of Environmental Protection, Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the Environmental Danger Zone, which was formed as a result of the disposal of chemicals in the village of Abramovka Mashew district. VALERIA CONONOVALKA to the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, for the award of a targeted subsidy to the Donetsk District Budget for an antifungal centre for the purchase of medical equipment in 2006. Vladimir Paka to the Acting Minister of Transport and Liaison with regard to the privatisation of the Squirka Motor Station in the Skurir district of Kiev. Vasilla NADRAVIA to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the provision of Luhansk City Hospital No. 12 medical equipment. Valery BORZOVA to the Head of the Cerkas Regional Public Administration regarding the non-payment of salaries for five months to employees of the utility Čerkasi ElectroTrans. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the State Road Service of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, on the unsatisfactory condition of roads in winter resting areas in the Lviv region. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Kiev City Head for the protection of social morality in connection with the location at the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk “Hath in Priorca” carries external advertising. Victor Tarana to the Head of the Court of Auditors for publication by the Ukrainian Centre for Legal Studies of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[TERRITO]] Deputies to the Head of the Court of Auditors on the improper distribution of budgetary resources by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy on the provision of individual types of government programmes. [[Gladys, Tomich, Chevchenko, and others]] Larissa VACHENCO to the Head of the Odessa Regional Administration for the illegal occupation of the premises rented by the International Charity Fund “Reform” and an unjustified increase in rent. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund on the issue of pension insurance for citizens. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Head of Kharkiv District Administration on the gasification of villages in the Zoločov district of Kharkiv. VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government for the return of the villages of Mizyakovsky Hutor, and the Preorcas of the Vinnicki district for renting their rations. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Herson District Administration for compensation for the cost to residents of the village of Shiroka Balka of Bilozer district, which was spent on the construction of street gas pipelines. Ms. Shewchuk to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board for the production of false materials directed against the electoral side of Yulia Timoshenko. Stéphane Cloud to the Chernigov City Head on measures to honor the memory of the distinguished Ukrainian educator Sophia Rusov from the 150th anniversary of her birth. Istwana HYDOSH to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the printing of ballot papers for the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and city, village, rural heads in the languages of national minorities. Valery BORZOVA to the Director of the Central State Archives of the Senior Authorities and the Directorate for Information on Entitlements of the Chief Information and Computing Centre of the Ministry of Food Industry of the URSR. THE Prime Minister’s responsibility to prevent the destruction of the existing methodological education system is to be taken into account. Thus, honourable colleagues, 92 parliamentary inquiries have been made. According to factions: “Ukraine’s Regions” – 10, Communists – 12, “Ukraine” -12, “National Party” -7, “BUT – 7, SPI – 7, National Block – 2, SDPU – 16, Ukrainian People’s Party – 6, NRA – 3, “Rebirth” – 3, “Reforms and Order” – 1, “Ukrainian” – 1, “non-fractional” – 5. Yes, 30 minutes for the national MPs. Terrence, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u3	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, we now frequently appeal to the Constitution of Ukraine. And here's the book of the Constitution of Ukraine, published by the Ukrainian Center of Law Studies. I'm so aware that this is the center. the current structure or unit of the Ukrainian Legal Foundation, the president of which is Sergey Glatatius. One million dollars was allocated to the Constitution from the contingency fund. And the order for that amount is very convenient for any publication that is now dying out. Is there a tender for the issue? There's no such thing on the side of the Minusty in the public procurement section. Is this not the lobbying of a structure that is closer to the Ministry of Justice by giving it favourable contracts? And the last. When 1 million dollars is distributed, it turns out that this little book is worth 10 dollars. That's impossible. I make my own books, it's a maximum of 3-5 bracelets. Where did the money go?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u4	Sergey Zizko, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u5	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear National Deputies! Just now, the chairman of the session read out numerous requests from members of the national parliament to the supposed duties of ministers. We know that ministers didn't consent to resign, they're still active ministers, and thus, the question is trying to overthrow the hierarchy of state executives, it's inducing government officials to misinterpret senior officials in the state, and it's contributing to destabilization in the state. The questions themselves do not reach the addressee, so they cannot be considered ministers, such as those who introduce the subject into the field. Therefore, the request to take into account is real.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u6	Let's move on to the national MPs. John Gerasimov, a faction of Communists. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u7	I would like to take the floor to my colleague, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u8	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u9	Declaration by the Communist faction on the deposit, deposit with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe of an instrument of ratification by Ukraine of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. It has been almost three years since the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 15 May 2003 the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. All these years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has deliberately delayed the submission to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe of an appropriate instrument of ratification, which is a standard condition for the completion of the country's accession process to Council of Europe documents. In fact, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the acquiescence of the President of Ukraine, has exceeded its powers and has brutally torpedoed Ukraine's compliance with its international obligations to accede to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. Such actions and the old white and blue, and the new orange executive power, have demeaned not only the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but, above all, the millions of Ukrainian citizens who, with a reliable but ineffective expectation of the start of the implementation of the European Charter in Ukraine and effective control by the European institutions of the process. The Communist faction has fought persistently for all these years in the Ukrainian legislative field for the fact that Ukraine's legislative obligations for the entry into force of the European Charter have not remained empty. We have witnessed dozens of parliamentary requests, appeals and statements from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the press. Our consistent and persistent struggle has forced a powerful nationalist regime to recognize its defeat and capitulate. As officially reported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in a letter dated 12 January this year, an instrument of ratification of the European Charter was deposited with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe on 19 September 2005, but so far it has been a great secret to the public and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, in the State budget for 2006, the budget expenditure for the “Activities for the implementation of the European Charter” is limited to 900,000 bracelets, which effectively blocks the implementation of the Charter. So the fight for its actual implementation is still ahead. We call on all political forces and the public of Ukraine to unite to prove the unity of word and case in practical implementation in Ukraine of the European Charter of Regional Languages, or of minority languages. There is no place for double standards in this matter, which has so far demonstrated power! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u10	Thank you. Oleg Belarus's right to speak to Victor Terrence. But you've got three minutes because you're not still writing it down. Then we have Rodionov, Shevchuk, Chicanov, Tomic. You're only gone three minutes. There's no sign of you. There isn't! There isn't! Please! You're not listed in number four! I'm reading a list: Billorus, Rodionov, Shevchuk, Chicanov, Tomic, Gluhovsky, Stoyan, Komar, Pecklusenko, Teeth. Who? Well, I don't have one here, I don't have one. Dear colleagues, I don't have one. It's Sergei Shevchuk who's handing over the right to speak. Please, you have six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u11	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. As a result of the increase in gas prices, Ukraine loses four billion dollars a year. The price for gas transit, which was agreed to transport Russian gas, is $1.6. And that, dear friends, is the lowest price in Europe. In Europe such a price is between $2.6 and $3 and a half. But the worst of all is that as a result of the signed “Agreement”, the entire state becomes a monopoly on the semi-criminal commercial structure. And when Russia raises prices, then Ukraine will fall into a debt hole in front of Moscow, and because of these debts Russia will rule Ukraine. And for the first time in Ukrainian history, arbitration courts will be in Moscow, not Stockholm. And I want to ask, have we won an arbitration court in Moscow? And I want to say that because of what happened to the arbitral tribunals, this is the direct fault of the Minister of Justice of the Head, whose fault this is done. And that's one reason to put him out of his office, to resign. And we have the results of the Agreement today. Today, there is a spontaneous increase in gas, electricity in the country. And second danger: today is the active work of the suspended government in preparation and signing by 20 January of the new treaty between the state structure “Naftogaz” and “Roscre Energo”. It's a joint venture, essentially a state with a criminal structure, and it's a criminal structure at least yesterday's speech by National Deputy Gregory Omelchenka. And that's what Parliament's supposed to be reacting to. And here's the only way out is to immediately denounce this agreement. This is Decree No. 8682, which is being implemented by the Ukrainian National Deputies Billorus and Kuzmenek. The first paragraph of this decree states: “Acknowledgment of an agreement, which is understood to be such that it is legally worthless. I want to emphasize, every student in the first law school knows, the term worthless means complete incompetence. Look at any dictionary, it's a perfectly correct, completely normal term. And I'd like to say. He said he asked me to take the word that we did: not only do we need to eliminate this Agreement, but we need to write our request upon the resignation of the Minister of Justice. Dear friends, for a similar agreement in any country, the government would be retired. And when our faction voted in favour of resigning the government, we did not destabilize the situation. We knew the Constitution well and knew that the government would fulfill its responsibilities before the elections. But when we voted in favour of the government's resignation, we gave an adequate assessment of its actions, which placed Ukraine in complete dependence on Russia, which after the agreement began with us so actively, so furiously to be friends that even Putin accepted a gracious invitation to ride to Carpathian on skis and grinjolas. The president, when he signed the resignation decree for Julia Timoshenko, when it was done, did not hide his joys. But when Yehanurov was retired, Moscow officials at the highest level both once and twice hurriedly declared that Yehanurov was still Prime Minister. And it was very similar to how Putin greeted Yanukovic several times. We are told that we should not have voted in favour of the resignation of the government, especially our faction, for Julia Timoshenko herself was the Prime Minister. This is particularly mentioned on the “5 channel”, which today is a very decent heritage of Lapikura tradition. But, dear friends, our faction is not a hostage. And we leave the right to act adequately on the situation in Ukraine and not accept what is at the expense of the State. But when we are complained that the Communists and I voted in favour of resigning the government, I will remind you that the action “Ukraine without Kuchma” was also conducted with the communists. At the time, it was an anti - Hitler coalition, although I think everyone had a purpose at the time. But I also want to remind you that the reform was voted on equally -- both our Ukrainians and communists and the Regions. And this is while our faction has never voted in favour of it. And I say, on behalf of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, before the whole of Ukraine, that we have never invested and will not make any memoranda with the communists, nor with Yanukovitch, nor with the united esdeks, because our political platforms, our views on Ukraine's future are quite different. We are glad that under pressure from the public, including our political power, Yushchenko broke the memorandum with Yanukovic. But in the next Parliament, we're either going to be in a coalition with the President, or if the President, by calling back yesterday, is going to re-sign under some new memorandum with Yanukovic or something like that, then we'll be in opposition. We don't get used to it. But we'll do our best to keep the orange team together. And the last. There's a mass attack on Parliament. There's an attack on Parliament that was the same as Kuchma's. We're told that Litwin or someone else planted a knife in the government. I want to say to the adjourned government, you don't have to go back to Parliament without putting up a knife, you have to work with Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u12	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction. Mikhail Rodionov is transferring the right to speak to Sergey Gmir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u13	Thank you. The Grim Reaper, the Communist faction. Orange schizophrenics are strong. By completely destroying the economy, the orange Führers took on eloquent and epistolic exercises. For example, the Chief gave legal analysis of the resignation of the Government, and it became his own resignation and concluded that it was illegal. Thus, this gentleman unites the Constitutional Court and the Minister of Justice in one person - the signs of the separation of personality, the disease I spoke of. But God is with him, with the Headmaster, his original, I would say unconventional, behavior has long become traditional. One of the leaders of our Ukraine, Roman Immortal, speaks on the possible dissolution of Parliament and on the introduction of direct presidential rule. It's not even funny anymore. I want to warn the oranges, any attempts to usurp power, and they will be answered by a general political strike in the industrial areas of Ukraine. The Prime Minister resigns from office and claims that the Government's resignation was accepted by drunk people after 7 January, after Christmas. You know, you don't have to make fun of Christian holidays. That's it. I may have had a drink, but at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, to this former intelligent man, I was sympathetic to him, making drunken statements at this meeting was not worth it. Yes. And please don't yell, you'd better take off your orange flags. Previously, people who cheated on the stage thought that you were leading them to freedom, and it turns out to be a trademark of the Yushchenko family's making money. Now I'm going to the President. You know, the President is allowing himself to question the power of the Constitution on the basis of changes to the Constitution, that it is not confirmed by a referendum. But the 1996 Constitution was not confirmed by a referendum. Then what's Victor Andreevich doing at Bank? Let him go to his seat and divorce the bee. If the Constitution is to be confirmed by referendums, it is not the President. And then there's something I'd like to say. Such a policy of mistreatment of the Constitution is traditional for oranges. We remember here the sacrilegious oath that was made at the time, not by President Victor Yushchenko. We remember who blocked the oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court. It is a deliberate policy, an anti-constitutional policy, a policy of betrayal of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u14	Sergey Chickanov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u15	Please give the floor to Deputy Novak Vladimir Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u16	Vladimir Novak. Prepare John the Rabbit instead of Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u17	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmělničina. Dear colleagues! In recent times, there have been many claims from this rostrum about the inadmissibility of political persecution against citizens. And as always, on the one hand, there are specific accusations that state the names, the facts, the addresses. On the part of the authorities and those who defend their interests, there is a denial that there can be no such thing in Ukraine because it simply cannot be because our authority is white and puffy and fair enough to prevent such persecution. Sadly, the facts show otherwise. An unprecedented company of blackmail and intimidation has been launched in connection with future elections. Their position on the line depends on the results of the 2006 elections. In doing so, the statements are unceremonious: if your people vote differently, we will not sign a contract with you, we are now in power. Such facts in Ukraine are now thousands and beyond of man’s human destiny. Not enough, even consideration of cases where everything that is needed has actually been proved, will be hindered by power today if it is in some way unfavourable to her. From this rostrum a year ago, I was speaking on behalf of the Secretary of the Hmelnick City Committee of the Schwarzman Party. In June 2004, a gang attack was carried out in the driveway where he lives, during which he suffered serious bodily damage. They were metal pipes on his head only because he was a Communist who opposed the looting of the property of the Hmelnick garrison’s Officer’s House. In fact, he acted to defend a just case, to protect property created by generations of Ukrainian people. Direct perpetrators and purchasers of this serious crime have been established. The crime has become resonant, indignant to the public of the city and the area, but the culprits are still at large. They feel unpunished because they feel supported by the authorities because they beat and tried to kill the Communist. The following organs cover criminals by doing the will of those in authority. Therefore, I ask that my statement today be considered a request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u18	Instead of John Tomic, John the Rabbit, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, has the word John the Rabbit. Get ready for Deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u19	Ivan Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plush. Respectable compatriots! On behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, the Ukrainian People's Block of Kostenka and Plushka, I appeal to the people's deputies from a faction of political forces: the Party of the Regions - leader Viktor Janukovich, the People's Party - leader Vladimir Litwin, the BUT - leader of Julia Timoshenko, the KPU - Peter Simonenko, the “One Ukraine” - Bogdan Gunsky and others, stop engaging in destructive activities, do not put Parliament in human laughter, do not surprise the entire civilized world with its savagery and barbarism. Don't destroy the state, because we all have it. The people have already priced you in a gas conflict with Russia, 30 pieces of silver, and so citizens will appreciate you in the case of the so - called resignation of the government. Gentlemen of the oligarchic-communist majority, you explained in your speeches that you're resigning the government because of the government's kind of inability to defend the interests of the Ukrainians. But you didn't end up in a gas conflict with your government and the president, and you went all the way out of the skin to help the Russian authorities break up that hateful orange power, but in fact the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people. And even in the decision to resign the government, they did not hold back from testifying once again to the Russian authorities for their minimum loyalty, to testify to their status as the Fifth Column of Moscow. There is only one word in the ruling that refers to the government's gas argument to resign – Gazprom. Here's what sentence it's embedded in. Caused by irresponsible anti-VAT actors, Gazprom has created a real danger of economic collapse. This means that you have not seen Moscow's economic and informational aggression because of the gas conflict and you do not have a soul for your people, but for Russia's Gazprom. There is no more word on gas issues in the decree. That is why I would like to address you, do not act like thieves who are the most shouting "hunting a thief". Your decision to resign the government has been made with a gross violation of existing legislation. They can't be classified as attempted coup d'états like usurpation of power. You think that people don't understand your destructive activity when you deliberately create obstacles to the formation of an oath by constitutional judges, you should know that conscious non-forming of the constitutional authority, the Constitutional Court, is a crime. So I suggest you cancel your illegal decision to resign the government, this is a solution to the situation, not to continue the plenary part of the session for another gas week for anti-Ukrainian activity. Enough of this clown. Yesterday, we were given a draft ruling proposing that we be relieved of our position as Head of Staff. It's no longer a clown, it's a group of political oligaric-communist schizophrenia. I want to remind you that you are an academic in legal science, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so don't discredit legal science. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka refers to you, the government, to initiate a procedure to ban anti - Ukrainian activities by anti - Ukrainian forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u20	Yes, Bogdan Kostinuk, the right to speak is handed over to him by Leo Glukhowski, a faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u21	National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yuschenka Block “Our Ukraine”, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine on energy conservation issues. The Ukrainian People’s Movement’s Parliamentary faction once again claims that the gas theme has gone from an external economic to an internal political one. On a gas issue today, all those who, in 14 years in power, turned Ukraine into an energy - dependent nation of the northern neighbour. On the conscience of those political forces, those gas kings and gas princesses who think they voted in favour of the resignation of the government, they think they voted in favour of the resignation of the government, that is the Ukrainian government that really protected every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian family to be warm in their homes. [[By the way, the Head of the Supreme Council doesn't like to falsify parliamentary requests, because MPs have been making inquiries to ministers, not to perform duties.]] So on the conscience of these fraudsters, it's the development of barter schemes in relation to Russia on the gas issue, it's the inflow of money from owners. Thanks to the criminal shadow rings in the gas field, this is the transformation of Ukraine into an energy-dependent state from the Russian Federation. But today, Ukraine has found a quality new form of monetary accounting and has moved away from bartering demeaning schemes and prices in the municipal sphere have not changed, leaving the country with gas, industry, and the private sector still living and working at the usual pace and it is impossible to deny it. An agreement between Russia and Ukraine on gas supply and gas transit is strategically in line with the economic interests of the State and the principles of market relations. The transition to monetary accounts enabled Ukraine to receive payment for gas transit, not because of so-called compensation, but because of living costs, which enabled Ukraine to pursue a more active energy diversification policy. At the same time, we require a fundamental new approach to energy conservation policies, which emphasize that the issue of energy conservation should become a national strategy. The People’s Movement faction claims that there is a need for a sharp increase in the financing of work aimed at ensuring the growth of its own energy resources. The faction of the National Movement of Ukraine advocates substantial State support for scientific development and comprehensive encouragement for the development and conduct of new energy-saving technologies. Taking into account the importance of the topic raised for economic and national security, we urge the Supreme Council to immediately hold parliamentary hearings on energy conservation issues with the participation of leading specialists in this field and to make clear recommendations for the development of national integrated programmes. All who are truly in pain for the fate of Ukraine, please support this initiative
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u22	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Prepare Shurmi instead of Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u23	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear Chief, distinguished compatriots! In recent times, the social situation, the economic situation, and the political situation caused by the Bank’s situation have worsened. The government resigns the Banking team as a political order, as a pre-election campaign. A party of regions thinks that this is the logical conclusion of the free team that was formed on the ground. And now instead of looking for ways to understand, it's pressurized by the President, on the side and. the government's opposition to Parliament. This opposition on TV yesterday also warmed the immortal mole, completing this opposition. And, of course, when the mole starts, when there's no light and there's no air. Yes, dear fellows, dear friends! We believe that the President must understand that today another political situation needs to be negotiated rather than opposed. We need to make arrangements to resolve the issues that concern Ukraine. Yesterday, the President revoked the signature under a memorandum signed by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Let's remember when this memo was signed and it was signed at the request of the President -- when the economic situation got worse. And the opposition, our leader Janukovitch then set his shoulders, instead of the footstool that his team and his "loving friends" set up for Yushchenka. By withdrawing the signature, it means that today the President is once again in confrontation with that half of Ukraine that voted for Yanukovic. Therefore, in the name of the people of Ukraine, in the name of social stability, in the name of political stability, we urge the President to rise above his ambitions, to sit at the table of talks with the political leaders, to gather a political tradition, and to find a way out of this state crisis. Dear friends, this is the second night. National tradition calls for forgiveness for sins committed against relatives and loved ones. Today, we call upon the authority responsible for what has happened in our country to ask forgiveness of the Ukrainian people for the sins they have brought upon them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u24	Igor Šurma, instead of Mikola Komara
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u25	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition block “Not so”. [[United]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine, with political responsibility and the need to remove from the leadership the executive power of incompetent persons who, by their actions, harm the national interests of Ukraine, was forced to resign the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers on 10 January. I feel it is my duty to state the following. According to the Ukrainian Act on the Temporary Exercise of the Responsibilities of Officials, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council, in agreement with the President of Ukraine, should be immediately removed from the temporary exercise of the powers of members of the Cabinet of Ministers until the formation of the new government: Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Tarasyuk and Minister of Defence of Ukraine Gricenko In accordance with article 1 of the Law in case of resignation of a person appointed by the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine or a person appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, the duty of the dismissed person shall be suspended, but not more than one month shall be exercised by the first representative of that official appointed by the constitutional and legitimate person. This article, based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, does not extend to government officials appointed solely to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that under the current Constitution, foreign ministers and defence ministers are officials appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President, they are subject to this article. And it follows from here that the temporary performance of the duties of foreign minister and minister of defense should be placed on the first intercessors prior to the formation of the new government. Further being in the position of Taraszuk and Grizzenka is illegal. In particular, I would like to point out that Tarasuk and Griesenko share a large part of the moral and political responsibility for the deterioration of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine, which has caused the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, their exclusion from the exercise of authority not only meets the requirements of the law but is appropriate in view of Ukraine’s national interests. I make this statement to the heads of state, heads of government, representatives of international organizations, heads of foreign diplomatic representations in Ukraine, explaining that, according to Ukrainian legislation, Tarasyuk and Griesenko do not represent Ukraine in external relations. Any of their signatures on the documents from Ukraine can't be considered legitimate. And one more thing. All those who voted in favour of the Supreme Council's decision on the release of the Constitution of Ukraine, a new model. I demand the President of Ukraine to investigate why a million dollars have been entrusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u26	Alexander Paklusenko. None. Then, dear fellows, we have two petitions from the national deputies about this. I'm glad they're unhappy with the answers. The relevant documents are drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Alexander Tkalenko, please. You have three minutes. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am speaking out of this rostrum for the second time with the question of dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary requests announced at the address of the Attorney General's Office. It should be noted that with the arrival of the new Attorney General, Alexander Ivanovich, the situation in the prosecutor’s office has improved considerably, especially with regard to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of which I am a member. At that time, however, formalism and the callous attitude of the district and district prosecutors are still taking place and hindering the recovery of the situation in the prosecutor’s office. So I would like to address the Attorney General with the following address. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, as the new head of the State's main law enforcement body, you should pay attention to the need for your subordinates to refuse a formal approach to the appeals and requests of Ukraine's national deputies. If some questions have been answered from the rostrum of the session hall, this means that there is no solution to these problems and that the solution to them has been approached with bureaucratic indifference. Humans have been denied a solution to life’s problems. In my first question, I raised a question about the solution of the statement by Polishtuk, the director of the private company Catalina Max, of the Biloser region of the Hersonian region, in which in 2004 more than a million dollars were stolen from crops and agricultural technology. All her allegations were that the law enforcement authorities had found no action to bring those responsible to justice. The question has not been resolved until now, and the blame has not been punished. At the same time, it is against her for failing to execute a decision of the Herson Farm Court for a debt of only 50,000. The criminal case in the first section of article 382, which is now being brought to trial, was brought to trial. Similar actions regarding the non-repayment of debt to the private enterprise Amethyst of the Kirovograd region by the VAT “Dniproenergo”, which for the last five years owes more than one million dollars, and this is confirmed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine's decision, employees of the Zaporez prosecution are not considered a crime. And in attracting the criminal responsibility of the officials of this structure has been denied. In response by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Korniaková, to my parliamentary request for unlawful actions by officials of the Zaporozhye District Hospital for the conduct of their activities, these facilities, a tender for the purchase of state funds for medical equipment, there is only a finding of the fact that this has been carried out, but there is no answer to the questions asked. [[Letter dated 27 December 2005]] At the same time, the district hospital’s management, in spite of the requirements of Mineconomy, conducted the tender without modification to the tender documentation. In view of what I have said, I ask that my statement be considered a repeat parliamentary request and that the questions raised in the December 1, 2005, issue be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u28	Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Christ was born! Dear colleagues, I was asked earlier in September about the conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The request was named Prime Minister then Mr. Yehanurov. Of course, it came, as always, not an answer, but just a water bottle of answers to these parliamentary requests, both mine and other colleagues. And actually, on that point, I'd like to say the following. Today, many talk about the betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests, both on the one hand and on the other, speculating on the term. But, dear lords, was it possible to treat Russia as you did over a year?Oh, my God! Why, when the issue of the Black Sea fleet was raised in September at that time, why did you not react?Oh, my God! Why was Russia not required to return the savings of citizens stolen from the Kremlin in 1991? Why was it not then required to return to Russia a portion of the Soviet gold and diamond funds and property of the Soviet Union abroad, which also partly belongs to Ukraine? Why, then, were parts of the Pacific, North, and other Soviet Union fleets not required to return? And finally, if you talk about the gas crisis now, why didn't Russia have a question about compensation for genocide and damage to the Ukrainian people during the last century. But for every killed, tortured by Ukrainian encavedists, they should be compensated. And then the gas should be given to us for the rest of our lives free of charge. That was the way to deal with Russia, not to allow them today to turn a bargain that was convenient for Ukraine into an unfavourable covenant. We were told about Ivchenko, Plačkov, Yehanurov, and some of the secret contracts they had in their folders. And what's the result? You're smart when you're here in Ukraine. And when you get to the Kremlin, your knees shake in front of a Hebian colonel, gentlemen. I warned and said a year ago: let's adopt the Book of Illustration Law that I proposed, let's illustrate the principle of three "K" and removed from the power of Communists, Cagebists and Custodians. What are you afraid of? Let's make it public: who in power is Moscow's secret agency now, both in that camp and in that camp? And then there will be no questions as to why Putin was so happy after that signed contract. We need to do a illustration, we need to have the kagebists, we need to have Moscow's agency removed, because we are in our, the god of data, the country. And if we don't understand it, Ukraine will never be a proud and powerful state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. We have a number of factions, I'm going to read to you, factions of the Company of Ukraine, the Regions of Ukraine, the BUT factions and the One Ukraine and the faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc are asking to announce a recess. [[factions, yes, it's not factions.]] Do you want to make statements? Please, then, who will speak from the factions of the KPU and the “Regions of Ukraine”? Mironenko, please. Is Mironenko going to perform? No, the BUT-friend faction was the first to apply for it. Please, Victor Mironenko. And let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u31	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is strongly protesting against the conduct of a hostile foreign policy for the people of President Yushchenko, the political forces of Timoshenko, Ehanurov, the socialist of Moroz, who have undermined the establishment of the urgently needed people of Ukraine in Ukraine's Single Economic Area of Russia-Belarusi-Kazakhstan. They thus provoke Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, to refuse to grant benefits to Ukraine in the context of the creation of the Single Economic Area. As a result of these actions, the economy has already suffered enormous harm to the people of Ukraine. The price of gas from Russia has increased fourfold, which will inevitably have a difficult impact on the economy, the population of Ukraine. There is a crisis in the steady supply of energy. The petrol crisis and other severe crises are approaching, which will inevitably have the same impact on the economy, the population of Ukraine. The problem of exports of Ukrainian goods is acute, which will also have a negative impact on the economy, the people of Ukraine. Of the 92 agreements necessary for the creation of the Single Economic Area, no agreement has been signed on the account of the above-mentioned politicians, I stress no agreement. In view of this, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has insisted that the faction of the Regions of Ukraine should be placed on the agenda of the two draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 8432, 8431, which provide for the acceleration of the conclusion of the agreements necessary for the establishment of the EP. However, for a month, even more than a month, our demands continue. These draft regulations are not on the agenda. While it is clear to all that this is necessary for the development of the Ukrainian economy and for the people of Ukraine, and for the free movement of citizens, our citizens across borders. This is necessary in order to provide social protection, guarantees to our citizens, pension guarantees for our citizens working in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, but the ruling forces do not listen. Respected compatriots, these forces find justification for the alleged establishment of the EEP to ensure a violation of sovereignty. It is true that entering NATO does not violate sovereignty, although it increases Ukraine's dependence on the United States, and entering the EP contributes to a violation of sovereignty. The Communist faction, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction requires that the draft regulations be put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u32	Yes, from the factions of BUT and “The One Ukraine” Leukko Lukyanenko. Prepare, please, Sithina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u33	Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Honourable MPs, Ukrainian National Deputy Belarus and I are introducing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project is called the denunciation of the agreement of 4 January 2006 on gas supply to Ukraine. Denunciation of the agreement on changes in the conditions of gas supply in Ukraine, signed on 04.01.06 by NAC “Naftogaz” Ukraine, “Gazprom” Russia and “Roskrenergo” Switzerland as one that undermines Ukraine's national security and encroaches on Ukraine's economic sovereignty. I'll bring this, Texa. I'll pass it to you, Sir. Now, here's the bottom line. Dear friends of the Ukrainian people, of that flank, I understand you when you want to protect the government, but this is about protecting not just the government, but about protecting Ukraine. This text, which we all have in hand, means the progressive destruction of our economic sovereignty and the progressive destruction of our independent state. So we'd better resign the government, force it to denounce this deal and force it to return the terms of the gas supply that it was. Earlier, Russia had supplied 50 dollars per thousand cubic meter to Ukraine, and now the authors of this contract text agreed that it would be supplied over a six - year period of $95 per thousand cubic metres. And that means the need to review the budget, which means to take it from those articles, let's say, social media and the Ministry of Culture and Education, the Ministry of Defence and so on, and so on, from there to take the money to pay for the gas, and that's for six months. And then we're going to pay $230 for all the gas for a thousand cubic meters, because tell me, you see the text here, here's the price, here's the calculated price of $230 per thousand cubic meters. If Ukraine starts paying such amounts for gas it won't last, it won't last. That is why we make such an offer and insist that the Supreme Council denounce this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u34	Mikhail Sithina, right to perform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u35	Michael the Holy, the Carpathians, the People's Block of Lithuania. Statement by the MP of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The People's Party faction does not for the first time appeal from the parliamentary rostrum to the leadership of the state on the grounds that the new authorities have taken up the shameful style of their predecessors, in which there is no room for democratic principles. Absolute intolerance to political opponents, methods of blackmail, persecution, intimidation, gang action -- all of this today in the arsenal of many regional power elites. “Whoever is not with us is against us” is the essence of the new power policy at Zakarpatta. The mollusk, which at one time caused shocks not only in Ukraine but in Europe did not die, simply changed colors and symbols, roses into horseshoes, but the essence remained. In the Carpathians today, it is dangerous to be leaders, political agitators, leaders of the centers of those parties that give the forerunners. The People’s Party is one of the highest rankings that will have broad support and confidence in the voters of the Carpathians. And this factor has become a serious instigator that causes inadequate reflexes of loyal vassals. Today, we are forced to draw the attention of society to the robbery committed against the leader of the Svalya District Organization of the People's Party, the deputy of the Zacarpathian District Council of Alexandre Didovic. At night, from January 10 to 11, the attackers burned the car in the courtyard of Mr. Didovich. Only by means of firefighters have they been able to keep their homes occupied. There is a criminal charge of arson. Followers, including major versions, also consider political ones. They'll find out if they're looking for customers. It's rhetorical. The patient, who suffered the damage estimated at 200,000 dollars, is convinced that the action not only avenges him personally but is a warning to many of our national party activists. A “Level” car was burned, a deputy of the Zacarpathian District Council of Victor Shadey, who publicly opposed the establishment of a new clan in the region of political and economic dictatorship. The police refused to allow the victim to commit a criminal offence. The unpunished evil is multiplying, and the dictatorship of lawlessness, which kept the citizens of the Carpathians in fear of the Orange Revolution, sadly, took over the new authority. The faction of the People's Party is concerned about the facts of political persecution and calls on the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, to take control of the investigation of these crimes and to take thorough steps to establish order and establish dictatorships.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u36	Thank you. It's called Alexander Alexander the Iceflake. Called, respected colleagues, called.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I am grateful to the MP who mentioned my last name. I now have the right to a replica, even though he said nonsense, but I won't answer it. I want to address all of you, dear colleagues, let's put it in order of day and vote on the draft Act amending the State Budget Act in part of social protection for children of war. I think it's just a mistake to prepare this document, and if we're these short two articles that don't change the total budget balance we don't vote on, we won't be able to answer people specifically to the problems they're facing today. We have allocated 800 million dollars to the children of war in the budget, and we should definitely vote by abolishing article 77, paragraph 17, to stop the law and to vote on the new article 110, which defines the order of funding. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to include in the order of the day, put to the vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, invite the deputies, first of all, to the session room. And secondly, it was directed yesterday to prepare information on the implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War in the State Budget for 2006. I'll read you some information on this. Dear colleagues. I will now read what we have accepted, the explanation we have prepared. There has been an increase in subsidies to local budgets for the provision of benefits from communications and other unforeseeable benefits and compensation for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens by 100 million dollars. And it was accordingly deleted from article 77, paragraph 17, of the draft law, article 71, the suspension of article 5, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children. With regard to article 5, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children, the final drafting of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 and its discussion in the session hall on December 20, 2005, increased the amount of subsidies to local budgets for the payment of benefits and subsidies to the population for electricity, heating, and rent by 400 million dollars. In addition, 300 million dollars should be earmarked as a result of savings in subsidies by the end of the year as a result of an increase in the income of citizens and a decrease in the number of housing subsidies recipients. This means that 700 million dollars and corresponding changes to article 51 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s 2006 State Budget are included in the extension of this subsidy. Because in discussing this issue at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 20, the Ukrainian national deputy Catherine Vaschuk called attention to the need to ensure the equal distribution of this benefit among children of war living in the area and the rural area was invited to give the Cabinet of Ministers a separate order. Therefore, article 110 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 stipulates that the benefits to children of war are provided for in article 5, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War, and are introduced in 2006 in a phased manner in the established Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. With regard to this article 5, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War, to the adoption of the above-mentioned order cannot be implemented and remains contained in article 77, paragraph 17, of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 to avoid legal collations and to ensure equal rights to benefit children of war living in rural areas. In doing so, it should be noted that paragraph 3 of section 7 of paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006 has been commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers to approve all legal acts for its implementation within 60 calendar days to enter into force by this law. Taking into account this information, which was verified and verified with the transcripts and signed by both the committee and the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I sent a letter yesterday to the Cabinet of Ministers saying: “Article 110 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 states that the benefits to children of war are provided for in Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children is implemented in 2006 in a manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. In view of this, I ask that the draft relevant legal acts be sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay. So the honourable colleagues, taking into account the decision we have made, will work with the Cabinet of Ministers so that they will immediately make appropriate proposals to agree with the Committee on Budgets. If not, then, dear colleagues, Alexandre Alexandrovich, we will make appropriate changes to the law at the beginning of the next session. Is that what this is about? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The point is that the budget law is adopted and its validity goes on throughout the year. And in article 77, paragraph 17, the law on children of war has been halted. Well, maybe that's just one thing to cancel? And let's continue to adjust everything as you suggest, y, let's say, in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers. I think it could be done, and if I could have your attention, Yuri Mikolaiovich, I would have finished. So if there was one point that was just going to be deleted later after the proposals came from the Cabinet of Ministers, I mean paragraph 17, if it were to be removed today, then we would have opened the way to settle in the way you suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u40	You haven't been given the right to speak, because you just filed your application. Well, I can't hurry. The point is, there was a line. Then I had to inform the Supreme Council of the commission received yesterday by the Supreme Council. Well, good God, you're on your way. Well, you're wrong, you're wrong. I'm asking then, let's do it this way. Now, given your proposals to the budget committee, let them study the matter. Well, today I see we're not going to make the right decision, Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear National Deputies! Two factions of “Our Ukraine”, “Reforms and Orders”, proposed to announce a recess for consultations or consultations. Dear colleagues, if you suggest not to hold any consultations now, let's close the session and hold consultations. Because then we won't bring people together to close the session. Yes, please. Please. Let's do it this way. I'll put it to a vote. Listen to me! Listen to me! I'm not in violation of your right yet, so listen. Dear colleagues, we had a proposal to consider today the question of next week being plenary. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. If the Supreme Council accepts this proposal, then we'll announce a recess, we'll hold consultations. If the Supreme Council doesn't accept, we'll close the session, please hold consultations. Dear colleagues, we must do it at the proper time. I, my fellow countrymen, am once again going to say one more minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I read that three factions, three by two, offered a break. I've declared these factions. I gave them my word. After giving the right to reply to Alexandre Alexandrovich, you made your offer. So it's all going decently and honestly. I should have given it to you right away, dear fellows. I'd say four factions are offering. Well, you're wrong. At least admit that in detail. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the calendar of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 8703. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda, please. What's wrong with the cards? [[11:28:35]] For 231 Questions are included in the agenda. I'm voting on the draft decision. [[Registration number 8703]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:29:02]] For 241 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 59, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 0, People's Party – 41, Block Timoshenko – 29, SPU-1, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party, “Rebirth”, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 10, Postfraction – 5. Now for the reasons, write it down, three minutes. Motives require three minutes to log in. Dear National Deputies! At the request of the President of Ukraine, who suggested that 30 urgent laws should be considered in order, as well as his proposal to ensure cooperation between the government, the Cabinet of Ministers made such a proposal for the continuation of the session, we accepted it. It's going to be a break, people asked for it. Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u41	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Sukhima.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u42	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u43	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! I express my sincere thanks from the faction “Region of Ukraine” to those Ukrainian national deputies who have shown truly civil maturity, courage, political will in order to resolve a number of problems that concern, first and foremost, the orange forces of our economy next week. This is the first time. It's different. I want to explain to everyone. We didn't vote because someone pressured us, like it used to be, that someone threatened us with something, we come out of this extremely difficult and tragic and dramatic situation that has arisen in the national economy and in the material welfare of the Ukrainian people. So I sincerely thank those people, those deputies who voted in favour of the extension of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u44	George Buiko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u45	George Buiko. Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u46	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u47	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters of Ukraine, I would like to say. That the vote, which took place a few minutes ago with regard to the continuation of our session, showed very clearly who wants to continue to work in the session, to adopt laws aimed at strengthening, to improve Ukraine's socio-economic development, and who wants to keep rallying, to protect government and to do other things. So it was very obvious who really wanted the good things of Ukraine and who wanted to speculate about it. And the second thing I wanted to say. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with the preservation of the 17th paragraph of Article 77 of the Budget, this can't be about any step-by-step implementation of this rule, because it just stops the implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u48	Well, let's take this question Tuesday and make the right decision. Boris Unburned, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u50	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you again, yesterday I reminded you that you are today the leader of the parliamentary majority and today you have been taking responsibility for the situation in the country since the first of January. We are opposition today. And we agree with that. But you, Your Honor, have no right today to violate the rights of opposition. The opposition has the right to every issue of the speech, the opposition has the right to every question a word. You show today how constitutional you are and how you will adhere to the Constitution as academics and professors. Therefore, we demand that each issue be considered and that the opposition have the right to speak from it. Next. A break in the Supreme Council is taken to reconcile matters, not for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u52	Your Honor, I'm asking you, time has run out. Please show me in the Rules on Opposition. Let's see, I'll use it then. I'm still asking you. Please, calm down! Calm down! Calm down! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! It's not him. It's them. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you again. Yesterday there were two meetings with representatives of a number of factions who proposed: “Let us work constructively.” I agreed, I supported the heat: let us work constructively. What do you want? The president's proposing 30 laws -- let's take a look at them. What do you want? Tell me what you want?Oh, my God! Please don't get me! At the request of two factions according to the Rules, a break of 30 minutes, up to 12 hours, 05 minutes, is announced for consultation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u53	Please, Mikola Catherinechuk from the factions that took a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, for the third day in the country, the debate on Parliament's policies and the resignation of the government has not stopped. The majority of citizens are critical of this and I am confident that they will come to their conclusions on March 26. In our view, the attempt beyond procedure, beyond common sense to send the government to retirement, clearly showed the people of Ukraine who are who, who is who, showed who is fighting for what and what interests. There was a lot of talk about betrayal of national interests, about betrayal of Ukraine. I'd like these patriots to finally be open, principled, and demand that I stop this demagogies, the lies. There was no betrayal, there were tough negotiations with Gazprom, there was blackmail, there was an attempt to shut off the gas. And the government had to make a decision, a realistic decision. I'd like to ask the opponents of the government. Do they have another answer to this challenge? We only heard popular offers. But so far none of them who swore the government have been able to offer anything that could be used and would result in less than $95 in a Ukrainian pipe. And energy independence, i.e. Ukraine's gas transport system, remains the property of Ukraine. The government could have made an uneasy choice: either we remain within the framework of the Agreement signed under the terms of the division of the gas transport system with Russia, shadow schemes that were painted, exploited for wealth by Russian and Ukrainian oil companies, or we go to the open market, save for Ukraine a gas transport system and move on to an honest and open relationship with Russia. After signing the Treaty, the government made a choice in favour of Ukraine’s strategic interests. He derived energy from the political plane into the plane of a market, transparent relationship. The government has made a choice for the benefit of social interests: warmth in the home of ordinary people, that is, for the benefit of most Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, those who have supported the resignation of the government, and today are shouting about the betrayal of national interests, not about the interests of citizens, but about the interests of corporate and personal owners of metallurgy, chemical entrepreneurs, and these “industries” who make up most of today's parliament, have learned well in four years to protect their interests here in parliament in spite of the interests of the people of Ukraine, and they are still protecting them. And this is absolutely everything, as in the proverb: “Stolen steal is the loudest of all.” Is that what they tell us about national interests? We put a dot in the past of Russia and Ukraine's energy relations, they have to be reviewed and brought into a civilized market form. They must be depoliticized, open, and mutually beneficial to both countries. There would be no conditions for economic and political control in the future. Cheap gas is found only in gas chambers to suppress democracy and freedom in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u55	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Internal Affairs is under consideration. Registration number 8044. Reporter of the duties of Minister of Interior Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Get ready from the Sunny Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u56	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, are present. I served as a full - time minister in September. So let me report as Minister of Internal Affairs. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has developed a draft Ukrainian Law on the Disciplinary Status of Internal Affairs Authorities of Ukraine. The bill defines the essence of service discipline, the responsibilities of the members of the military and principal bodies of the internal affairs of Ukraine, the types of encouragement and discipline, the order and rights of the authorities regarding their application, and the manner in which disciplinary charges are brought against them. The aim of the bill is to bring legislation in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to improve the system of incentives applied to members of the ordinary and primary internal affairs bodies of Ukraine, to form a single approach to the order and rights of supervisors regarding the application of incentives and the imposition of disciplinary fees. According to article 92, paragraph 22, of the Constitutions of Ukraine, acts that are administrative or disciplinary offences and are responsible for them are defined exclusively by laws. Meanwhile, the issue of service discipline in the administration of matters is regulated by decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of 29 July 91. The draft law “On the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine” sets out, unlike the current decree of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR, the concept of service discipline, disciplinary misconduct, and clearly sets out the responsibilities of the members of the ordinary and primary internal affairs bodies. The project is designed to increase the number of types of encouragement, such as honoring the board and rewarding the name of the weapon. An improved procedure for disciplinary complaints, a clear order for imposing disciplinary fees in special cases, while on business trips, vacations, or periods of incapacity. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Internal Affairs Institutions of Ukraine will contribute to the continued adherence of the members of the ordinary and primary bodies of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine to the norms and requirements of the Constitution, laws, other legal acts, the oath of the employees of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine, these and other statutes, the regulations and regulations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. According to the structure of the bill, it consists of 5 chapters and 21 articles. While working on the bill, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine took the most into account the comments and suggestions of interested central executives. Given that the current disciplinary statute of the authorities of the internal affairs of the Ukrainian RSR has passed the test of time, we consider it necessary to improve the disciplinary statute of the authorities of the internal affairs of Ukraine, taking into account the requirements for today's Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine and other legal acts, I ask that you support the bill, vote in favour of it to ensure the requirements, the direct requirements of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, three minutes, please. Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u58	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Here's a question. We are well aware that, to date, there has been a tremendous reduction in our army, our annual and the Ministry of the Interior. The provision of housing, salaries for employees of the Ministry of the Interior and the Armed Forces is insufficient, that is understandable to all. And now, by creating such a new system of disciplinary sanctions against people who are not actually provided by the State with normal working conditions, it does not seem to be entirely normal. Do you want to explain to me how it's being backed up besides the knuckle you're now suggesting that your subordinates will be offered as a freshman?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Your Honor! First of all, if you know very well, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we don't have a mandatory reduction and retirement even in December, considering what the Supreme Council has planned and, in the end, accepted the difference in the pension allowance, which was very important for the militia, we have only two thousand people retired. This is a month-round statistical figure, slightly increased. At this point in the internal affairs system, about 10 percent is not a set that is being complemented by our higher education institutions and militia schools. As far as I'm concerned, it's pay. Thank you very much to the national deputies, as well as to government workers who have increased wages, and today the minimum wage in the police is already 900 dollars. I'll remind you that when I came to the post of minister, it was 350 bucks. It's minimal on the condition that it uses all the bonuses, the bonuses, that it works normally. The head of the Paradise Department will have about two thousand dollars, that's enough pay to encourage workers. On the other hand, I'd like you to figure it out, because on the one hand, your faction says that the police are bandits, and on the other hand, they don't need to be beaten. This disciplinary charter was practically based on an existing disciplinary charter approved by the Ukrainian RSR Presidency. It added the encouragement of article 9, which included honor, the award of a name weapon, a number of other marks, and bonuses. People will have a balanced punishment if they misrepresent their ministry and observe it if they work hard. And the last line on housing. In fact, housing is a huge police problem, we have 17,000 people in line, including about 7,000 more than 10 years. But last year, we spent the largest number of apartments in the history of the Ukrainian militia on the basis of basic discipline. So order is indicated. What we can do to help our people, and we will also require them to serve us honestly in the name of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. Mr. Secretary, it says again that you are acting, but I say that in accordance with the Constitution, you are a minister and I want to ask you this question. There are many issues in this law, and how can discipline be violated while you are away, on vacation, on rest, during the period of temporary incapacity provided for in draft article 15? I mean, I want us to make peace with the police, including in time of service, but I guess we're not getting anywhere in the world. Nowhere in the world is such a violation considered a violation of discipline or discipline, since people do not perform their duties while they are in the hospital? How do you justify what you are doing in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. On the contrary, this Statute improves the order of the charges of a person’s being assigned to a hospital or temporarily incapacitated. You know well, working in our organs, knowing that there is such a tradition as soon as punishment occurs, a person falls to the hospital and hides from deserved punishment. In this case, he will receive it in the previous period of non-chungry treatment of work, but in this statute there is a special order, a clear order of accusation of such a decision. People will be more protected. In this case, once again, I would like to adopt this law as a basis, because he, as I was fit to be an MP, said, had a few observations. We're willing to process them carefully in commissions and bring them to a brilliant appearance, but on the basis of that, I would ask them to accept it, because this law is balanced and, in the end, this is a direct requirement of the Constitution. As far as you're concerned about my part-time assignment, I'll remind you that in December, at the end of the hall, our friends were trying to resign me, and she got 191 votes. So, as I understand it, I am now the Minister of Internal Affairs, and I will work as long as I am given this opportunity by the President and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u63	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear friends, I would ask you not to speculate or submit what the Supreme Council has accepted. If someone does not like the assignment, we can remove it along with the minister’s duties. I don't like it, please, and stop playing democracy. Please, Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich is the deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u64	Sergey Sinchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, having considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Disciplinary Statutes of Internal Affairs, decided to approve it and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis. The bill proposes to approve the disciplinary statute of the authorities of Ukraine and to recognize that the decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of 29 July 1991 on the disciplinary statute of the authorities of the internal affairs of the Ukrainian RSR has become invalid. The purpose of the adoption of the new disciplinary charter is to improve the system of incentives and disciplines applied to individuals of the ordinary and primary bodies of the internal affairs of Ukraine, to introduce a single approach to the order and rights of the chiefs regarding their application, and to order complaints of disciplinary charges. The adoption of the bill under consideration will not require additional expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for first reading and adoption. Therefore, please support the adoption as a basis for the first reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u65	There's a question. Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine” Dear Sergey Grigorovovich, for the faction of the “Region of Ukraine” is certain that, in order to implement the defining provisions of the Ukrainian Law “On the Police on the Responsibility of Lawkeepers for Their Activities” and in light of the law written to implement the work plan of the Cabinet in 2004, when the government, the most successful government in the history of Ukraine, was headed by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, this bill should be adopted, it is certain. But please tell me, I would like to ask this question to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, but I will give you a professional opportunity. Do you not consider it appropriate to provide for a type of incentive for social orientation, such as by moving the housing line out of the queue? Because what the minister is talking about here is the great success and success of housing, and I'll remind you, these buildings were set up by Janukovic in 2005-2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u67	I'll say so, it was desirable, but I don't think it's possible for this in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and in the Cabinet of Ministers. So you don't have to put it in the constitution, in the statute what you can't practically decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u68	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, the bill says that discipline cannot be imposed if more than a year has passed since the day of the commission. But why one year, or six months, or two years? And to that. It's supposed to impose disciplinary bonds that have such moral definitions, observations, catchups, warnings, of course, a year here you can agree. But there are also: downgrading in office, downgrading in special rank, discharge from internal affairs, it seems, for more serious violations. So you don't think it's appropriate to leave one year just for moral reasons, and the downsizings, and so on, if a worker did something, without a limit on the time of the invitation to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u70	Well, there's no such thing as denial. But it's a general practice that's been established for many years, and it's been in Soviet power. Just a term that's nice and acceptable to this kind of punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u72	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Karmazin’s constituency political bloc My dear reporter, how do you feel about the fact that in article four we regulate how not only do criminal orders, because that's where it's supposed to be, but not to follow orders that can't be given, because they're a violation of procedural norms, so let's say the investigator is given an order by the chief of police. He is not essentially a criminal command. But he's out of his league, first. And it's one that makes it impossible to do it, on the one hand. On the other hand, they say, "No, I told you, break this case, send it to court, because I will not give you encouragement and so on." That's what I'm talking about before the status of investigators, the investigator today, is in the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. How to predict it and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u73	Well, I'd say yes, it's also provided for in the status of the investigator, it's provided for, first of all, in the Criminal Procedure Code, there's no need for that. And the disciplinary charter, well, that's right, it's common to all military personnel, internal affairs. And so the investigator is a separate category. Well, if you have, you'll have these suggestions, let's take a look at our committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u74	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Please sit down. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Come on, 15 minutes. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs. Of course, it has long been necessary to adopt this legislative act and to adopt the Statute of Internal Affairs, bearing in mind that it was no longer possible to continue to be guided by the Statute that was adopted in 1991, since there are no internal organs of the Ukrainian RSR. So I welcome the fact that this bill is designed and has positive, extremely positive moments. It already conforms to the Constitution, but I would also like to pay attention to the need to specify some points. In particular, it seems to me that the details of article 4 should be made, where orders are involved, and in the brackets. Orders and orders are different things. They need to be separated from each other and shown how different they are from each other. It's a theory of right and change the theory, having a lot of teaching institutions in line with the IMF, well, it's kind of not nice. I'm talking to scientists who are good at being decent in the IMF system, please take different approaches to this. One. An attempt has been made to make the law so that the person under authority is clearly a criminal order or order. It's done, I say again, an attempt. It is beautiful, but it needs to be limited here to make it clear that under no circumstances will a criminal order bear any responsibility for it, and if it is persecuted by those who have given such an order, it will foresee their responsibility right here until liberation. Next. I would like to draw attention to the inadequacy of article 43 of the Constitution regarding the prohibition of the use of forced labor in articles such as 12, 13, 14, 18 on the part of the existence of such discipline as a downgrading in office, once; as an assignment in order to serve. We've already ruled that out even from the discipline statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we've ruled it out. So let's rule out the machine here. Look who's cooking, please. There's no Ukrainian Armed Forces, and there's no police? Turn it off clearly. Next. There is also a question that I asked in article 15, and unfortunately I did not fully understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u76	Thank you. We'll take that into account, and you'll demonstrate it, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Victor Terrence. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u77	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I wanted to go to Yuri Vitaliovich first, and I wanted to say that we don't have any claims against you, and you just became a hostage of the situation, and you became a hostage. If you, Adam Ivanovich, allow me, literally, a few words. I'll tell the defenses of the gas agreement, literally, one news. Last reported by the Russian press. So, literally, 10-20 minutes ago. “Russian knowledge” with reference to competent sources reports that Saparmurat Niyazov, at a meeting with the Russian President, seeks to raise the price of his gas to $85 per thousand cubic metres. I quote everything. And this is automatically, I quote, “Russian knowledge”: “And this will automatically lead to gas exploration in Ukraine, marked “Russian knowledge”. The representative of the Embassy of Turkmenistan in Moscow informed the “knowledges” that, taking into account world energy prices, we consider it fair to recover the price of gas to $85.” I mean, what's already happening here is what the MPs have been warned about. And did Ukraine have a way out? There was a way out. There was the Stockholm Court, an example of Bulgaria, which insisted on keeping the signed agreements. You guys, what you scream like Communists, you tell them they're yelling and you scream. And Bulgaria stood up for its truth. So I welcome you, the gas in Ukraine will be expensive. Now it's about the law, about the law. In addition, he is to improve the system of incentives and disciplines applied to individuals of the ordinary and primary bodies of the internal affairs of Ukraine. It allows for the formation of a single approach to the order and rights of superiors regarding their application, as well as a procedure for the prosecution of disciplinary charges. There's a negative. The negative is, in our opinion, that the bill should note the following: once, articles of the law would have to be divided into parts and parts into paragraphs and paragraphs to avoid contradictions when referring to them. The other one. The rules on disciplines that provide for the temporary transfer of an employee without his consent to the niche of work in the order of disciplinary assembly, and the possibility of doing a job that is not provided for by a contract of employment which is contrary to article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the prohibition of the use of forced labour. [[this is articles 12, 13, 14, 18]] In our opinion, our faction would be to determine the limits of disciplinary rights and the responsibilities of superiors in applying incentives and imposing discipline. And the last. In line with article 9 on the State Prizes for the Law of Ukraine, the named firearms have been attributed to State rewards. Therefore, the basis and order of the award should be in the order established by this law. Our view is: We offer to support it by taking into account the comments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u78	Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Chewchenka Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u79	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I would like to start with a replica to the address of the acting minister. In your ambitions, you won't refuse, but being modest as a man and an officer wouldn't interfere. About the bill. I would like to draw our attention once again to the fact that discipline is expected to be imposed within one month of the day when the misconduct has become known to the boss. And discipline cannot be imposed if the day of wrongdoing has passed more than one year. But these compounds have different weights. For example, a remark, a reproof, a harsh reprehension, a warning of incomplete office responsibilities. This is perhaps the term “one year” and it would be useful to leave. But the downgrading of a position, the downgrading of a special title by one degree -- that is to say, more severe punishment and more misdemeanour that deserves to be done in relation to the person who allowed it -- is a more severe seduction. Perhaps a term should be set here and for three years. Finally, discharge from internal affairs. Here you can leave “untimely. ” If it's installed, let's take a year and two and three, go, man good, get out of the internal affairs department. That's one question. The second issue is also related to the timing of the official investigation. It's not established by statute. Maybe there's three of those boundaries to be defined here. First: if these were the first of the offences that merited notice, reprimand, rigorous reprehension, and warning of incomplete office membership, then perhaps a more short term would have to be foreseen, for example, a week or two weeks, but this is a matter of determining what the term should be, first of all, lawyers, lawyers, domestic workers. Let them determine for themselves. And if this affects the downgrading of the position, perhaps we need to stick more closely to the determination of the situation, perhaps a month or a few months. And if discharge from internal affairs is not more than three months or six months. So I would like to propose that I request the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Committee of Profiles to take these comments and suggestions into account in the second reading. In general, the Communist faction supports the bill and suggests that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u80	Alexander Chevchenko. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear people of Ukraine. Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. First of all, I'd like to say hello to everyone with the coming old, as we always say, New Year's Eve. And I'm sure of it. That tomorrow Saint Basil sows our earth with good, happy, well - being, and crisisless existence. In his time, the Chinese thinker Lao Jae stressed that order should be stated when there is no sadness. This is especially true of organs. The responsibility of maintaining public order and protecting public tranquillity is laid down. As well as guarding civil rights: the right to life, the right to health, private property, and so forth. At present, there is a rather complex situation that concerns us in Ukraine. The statistics show that about 60 citizens are represented by a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. While one theft, robbery, or robbery is estimated at about 90 per day. Severe bodily injuries, including rape, are estimated at 650 per day. Small bullying and administrative wrongdoing are not even the case. To the root of evil, we learn that individuals with severe mental deviations are not so much the real thing. While much of the crime and wrongdoing are committed by ordinary citizens. If you can say that, normal people in some way are being stimulated by society itself. Hence, the root of evil must be sought first in society. Thus, the conclusion is very disappointing: The Ukrainian State has created quite favorable conditions for illegal action. And the brightest feature of the corruption of MVD representatives, which became an illustration in the tongues, is almost anecdotes, one of the forms of oral folk creativity. The same can be said of negligence. There is no way to take into account the low material security of this category of defenders, their social protection, and so forth. However, I can argue, for I am sure that the bribery of the MPs is the cause of the citizens themselves. As persecuting their own interests and tempting representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they are gradually undermining the level of protection, and the activities and social trust of the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a whole. I was asked today: is it true that the Supreme Council is the most stable factor for stability in Ukraine? I think the opposite is what the people are, and so is the Supreme Council. Both the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine need a dialogue. Therefore, the Lithuanian People's Block, in favour of doing everything possible to bring the system first in the bodies that are supposed to ensure the maintenance of public order, the protection of rights and freedoms, please inform the minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs personally with great respect and order from the DAI. Without reason, however, this organization has caused much confusion and every deboss. And in my opinion, it is difficult not to uphold this law, but there are many objections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u82	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. None. Ivan Hare, please. George Manchulenko, please. Not really, but almost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u83	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, elected Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. There is no doubt that the adoption of the bill is necessary not only for internal affairs but also generally for the Ukrainian community, since it deals with a great deal of issues related to the conduct of the service in the ranks and the primary composition of internal affairs. But there are a few comments from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to the bill. First. Article 9 of the draft statute provides for the award of a name weapon. But the sign “The Name Weapons” is a national award that is set for the award of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service, other military formations formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, including for the recognition of persons of the Ministry of Interior's primary composition. Therefore, the basis and order for the use of such encouragement, such as the award of a named firearms, should be established by the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, not by statute. Next. According to article 12 of the draft statute, a form of discipline is a humiliation in office. This statute is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution prohibits the use of forced labour, so it must also be reviewed and written in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in the second reading. In order to determine all the circumstances of disciplinary misconduct committed by a person of a private or principal body of internal affairs in Ukraine, the chief may appoint a service investigation, article 14 of the statute, but the time limit for such service investigation is not established by statute. Article 15 of the Statute sets out, in particular, the procedure for imposing disciplinary obligations on members of the military and the chief of staff in the event of a violation of their discipline while on vacation or on vacation. I would like to remind you that disciplinary misconduct is a failure or an improper performance by a person of a regular or principal duty and conditions of service, but a police officer does not carry out his or her duties while on vacation or on vacation. As a result, respectable colleagues come to the attention of the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. We tend to adopt the first reading on the basis of the bill, but only if, for the second reading, all the questions that I have just talked about, which conflicts with the Constitution of Ukraine have taken place, are corrected by the second reading of the draft law meeting the standards and requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is the basic law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. One minute, Storm, with motive, please. Because it's written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u85	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Opposition Block “No YES!” [[united]] I would like to address the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Lucenka. Mr. Yuri, one of the greatest achievements of evolution in society, is probably the succession of power. I'd say so. That in this matter we are witnessing inconsistencies today. Six months ago, you were squandering the gains of past power and saying that it was not capable of anything. Today you say that you have provided housing for a large number of your employees. As a landowner man who's always built a lot of housing, you know that in such a short period of time it's impossible to do something. So you have to do the right thing to continue what was set up in 2005. And the new authorities always take advantage of the old man’s accomplishments. In the Lviv region of the hospital, which was reprofiled, authorities decided to wipe out the 1970 ’ s and write 2005. Here's what's new.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u86	The discussion is over, we will be determined. Indeed, dear colleagues, you are all noting the need for this law to be adopted and, at the same time, stressed the need for improvement, as the Cabinet of Ministers agrees with the mouth of the reporter that it is subject to further correction. So let us accept it in the first reading and make it possible for us to make a perfect law on the disciplinary statute of internal affairs. Please vote. [[12:44:38]] For 230 The Act on the Disciplinary Statute of Internal Affairs. Registration number 8044 was accepted in the first reading. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 10, Communists - 48, National Party - 24, "Our Ukraine" - 39, Block Timoshenko - 19, SPU - 24, National Block - 2, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 6, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, "Reforms and Order" - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 6, "One Ukraine" - 3, non-fractional - 5. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning alimony]] Registration number 7256. Reported to the acting minister of justice, but here, honourable colleagues, a letter came from the Cabinet of Ministers requesting that in the plenary meeting on alimony, registration number 7256, Deputy Justice Minister Kotlar Dmitry Mikolaiovich. Please, Dmitri Mikolaiovich. Matthew, please. Matthew’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues. As we know, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the introduction by the President, including, of course, by the Government, is subject to the laws that they authorize. So the members of the government, and for good reason, their replacements. What is the valid reason why there is no executive responsibility for the Chief Justice? Perhaps he is preparing a further indisputable legal conclusion on the Supreme Council's Retirement Order, or something else? Is this simply ignoring the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Therefore, the honourable Adam Ivanovich needs to withdraw this bill from consideration until he comes here to represent the minister’s responsibilities. And this is how I propose to do it on other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, put your hands down, the procedure is complete, we will be before the vote. Once again, the committee head is absolutely right, but there is one "but". The author of the legislative initiative under this bill is the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers defines the rapporteur, there is a letter from the acting prime minister of Ukraine asking that the rapporteur on this issue be not the Chief, but the Deputy Minister. This is the right of the Cabinet of Ministers. We will note that this is not the last minute, but in the formation of the day’s order, we will see how objective the reasons for the absence of the minister’s executive duties are. Now, let's listen to the deputy minister of justice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning alimony]] Registration number 7256. The need for the adoption of this law by Ukraine is due to the fact that some of the issues of alimony are not regulated by Ukraine’s valid legislation. This limits the rights of persons for whom alimony is sought and, accordingly, may violate the requirements of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the right to a fair trial. And also article 1 of the Protocol to this Convention, the right to peaceful ownership of its property. I would like to inform you that the European Court of Human Rights is already in the process of dealing with one case that is being brought against Ukraine in this regard. The adoption of this bill is therefore extremely urgent. The adoption of the draft law, which is proposed to your mind, will allow Ukraine's legislative acts to be brought into line with the requirements of the Convention on Human Rights. In particular, gaps will be removed with regard to the situation when a person who is obliged to pay alimony after their one - time payment in connection with going abroad remains in permanent residence in Ukraine or returns. The absence of an established procedure in this case allows those who are obliged to pay alimony, if their income increases in the future, to avoid paying alimony on an increased scale through their one - time payment to such an increase. In order to remedy this situation and avoid possible human rights violations, amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Family Code are proposed. In particular, it is suggested that we establish a rule that allows interested parties to apply to the court for the full sum of alimony for the entire period until the child reaches adulthood, in the event of a parent leaving for a permanent residence in a state with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement. In addition, there is a procedural possibility to appeal a lawsuit in the event that, after payment of such full alimony, the defendant refuses to go abroad or he returns and there is a real increase in his income. This bill was introduced last March when the old Civil Procedure Code was still in force. Appropriately, when approved in the first reading, in the second reading, this will take into account and accordingly remove those provisions that provide for changes to the old code and leave only changes to the current Civil Procedure Code. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We have Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, this bill, indeed, is designed to ensure the protection of the rights of children whose parents, or one of the parents who is obliged to pay alimony, leave for permanent residence in a state with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement, then the full amount of alimony to be paid for until the child reaches adulthood is brought together in full before the departure of such a father who is to pay alimony or mothers for the entire period. And when suddenly he actually did, and there was a decision to pull, and this person stayed in the territory of Ukraine, or when he returned, went there, and then returned from that State, then he has the right to ask questions about the review of this assembly order. And there's also an opportunity with a variable, let's say, an increase in income, a parent's income to increase and pay alimony, and the sum of alimony, I mean, this mechanism will give this opportunity. So the committee, after considering this issue, decided to invite the Supreme Council to accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u92	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? We will. Show me that standard. Yuri Karmazin, please prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In principle, this law had to be adopted to be adopted in two readings. But the moments that are here are not allowed to be accepted in two readings. And I agree with the proposal of the Musiyaki People's Deputy that we should accept only in the first reading. Because the Ukraine’s CDC project needs to be excluded in 1963, which means that the first article of the project should be deleted. Because I understand the authors, they passed the law on March 28, 2005. And then it made sense, because it still worked, it would have worked for months more, but if we went to that, now, there are other problems, which, and the observations, including the scientific and expert administration, which proposes to do so, to complete article 181 of the Ukrainian Family Code with the following wording: “If, after the court's decision has been taken, according to which one of the parents makes alimony, he intends to leave for permanent residence in a state with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement, from him, according to the decision of the court before his departure from Ukraine, alimony may be drawn up throughout the period until he reaches adulthood. If, after the court's decision to pay alimony has taken effect throughout the period until the child reaches adulthood, the person from whom alimony is drawn continues to reside in Ukraine, or returns to Ukraine for permanent residence, and changes in circumstances that have affected the determination of the alimony size, a periodic withdrawal of alimony may be established in court.” I think that this addition would be worth making in the Family Code in article 181 and it also makes sense to complete the changes to article 96 -- the requirements under which a new paragraph 4 could be given, where it would be stipulated that a requirement for alimony to be made throughout the period until the child reaches adulthood should one parent who pays out intends to leave for permanent residence in a state with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement and periodic alimony withdrawals in the event that he stays in Ukraine or returns to Ukraine for permanent residence and changes the circumstances that have affected the determination of the size of alimony. In general, this law is designed to protect the child's interests in the first place, and those who overpaid -- didn't pay alimony, the child can't get alimony paid, the child has all the time to live for something. That's why I'm a first-reader. Thank you. With the amendments I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u94	Sergey Shevchuk, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. When you announced the title of this bill, a smile was seen among many deputies. I was talking about why we should look at it. It's such an interesting bill. At the same time, you know, the psychology of family life and family relationships is the same as in Ukraine, in the Swedish family, in another European family. And the European Court of Human Rights has quite a number of cases related to such issues, including the European Court of Justice today is considering a case called “Stepinska v Ukraine”. In this case, the Ukrainian courts in all the institutions refused to accept her call for alimony from her former husband, who had previously formally paid the full amount of alimony, referring to him leaving for a permanent residence in Israel. But he did not leave, and the average monthly income in Ukraine, based on which alimony was calculated, grew significantly. In doing so, the Ukrainian courts noted that the former man had fulfilled his obligation to pay alimony and had ignored evidence that he was still living in Ukraine. As a result, children suffer and this is an example of how we should still review existing national legislation for the benefit of children, especially since Ukraine has acceded to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So it seems to us that the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers is correct, and the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u96	Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u97	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In this bill, our faction sees some good because this bill is designed to remove the gap in the current legislation of Ukraine. Because the situation where, after payment of alimony according to order, one of the parents did not go to a country with which Ukraine does not have legal aid agreements and stayed or returned for permanent residence in Ukraine is not yet settled by the current legislation of Ukraine. And this imbalance enables individuals to pay alimony in the event of a substantial increase in their income in the future, if the court’s decision has established alimony as only part of their income, to avoid alimony payments by way of a one - time payment. So this has to be settled, the supply is normal, and our faction in general agrees with the way this problem is resolved. And at the same time, I am addressing our famous lawyers and lawyers of the European species with the request to prepare a similar bill and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on corruption and thefts from the oil and gas pipeline, but not only those who hide behind the Rosukreenergo, but also for the famous “Itera” and similar middle-sized, looting structures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u98	Mikola Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u99	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. An important social bill is in order of the day. We certainly have the Family Code. However, a number of legal issues regarding the protection of children are not addressed. And this is true in cases where one parent has already talked about it, one parent leaves for a permanent residence in another country, and has to pay for all the alimony that can be counted up to adulthood. But of course. This approach is quite limited, and it does not protect children fully. For example, when parents didn't actually go abroad, and in this case there's such a gap in the law that parents can just, simply speculate and then deceive children. There are many letters with this problem. In particular, letters from Kirovograd, Herson, and Ravenna region came to this address when a parent deliberately evades payment of alimony. In addition, there are problems in providing life for children who are orphans for living parents. Such parents should pay alimony to institutions where children are located or to those who care for such children. Strong and even harsh legislation is needed to protect children’s rights. There are, of course, seven million Ukrainian citizens who have gone abroad to earn their earnings, and there are many cases when children suffer from such migration because our citizens often start new families there and do not return and pay properly, do not help such children, their children, and children are left without care. Thus, socialists support this bill in the first reading. Please take into account both the committee and the Ministry of Justice accordingly, as regards the comments that have been made, and we will vote in the first reading in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u100	Yes, the discussion was over. No, no, there's no time. If the Rabbit insists, one minute. And the Shurma. For the reasons of the vote, please. George Manchulenko again. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u101	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, is proposing to amend the Ukrainian Family Code and the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. It is anticipated that if, following the alimony obligations approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, number 1203 of August 19, 2002, there are no legal aid agreements and that one of the parents has stayed or returned to Ukraine for permanent residence, the alimony mechanism, taking into account the amount paid, is established by legislation. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption in the first reading of the bill, as it aims to remove the gap in the current legislation of Ukraine. There is a comment by the Ukrainian People's Party, because it is envisaged to amend the Civil Procedure Code of 18 July 1963, but it, i.e. the Code, became invalid on 1 September 2005. We can accept it in the first reading. The Ukrainian People’s Party stands in this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u102	Igor Shurma, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u103	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition bloc “No YES!” [[united]] There is no doubt that the Ukrainian Family Code and the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code should be amended. But we're not voting for this bill today, because we're running out of credit for people who work in government. This is our position. But I would like to remind a representative of the Ministry of Justice that he has handed over to the current acting minister of justice that your ministry has seriously violated financial discipline. The Supreme Council’s decree on the issue of an updated text of the Constitution of Ukraine provided for the printing of a new text in accordance with the amendments and additions made to it by Law 2222. There's something completely different. Then please tell the minister that he has grossly violated financial discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u104	Yes, with the rule of law, I make a small amendment. I ask the Social Democrats to change their mind, because I remind you that this bill was passed by the prime minister of Ukraine, Julia Timoshenko, for whom, if I am not mistaken, you voted and supported it. So let's, let's express our support to this government, so let's vote for this project. Yes, please, I am putting to the vote the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning alimony]] Registration number 7256. Please support the first reading as a basis. [[13:06:40]] For 290 Thank you for understanding. Why don't we take it now? No, it's not. That was the right vote, that's right. The factions? Well, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 39, Communists - 56, "Our Ukraine" - 27, People's Party - 28, Block Timoshenko - 18, Socialists - 21, People's Block Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 8, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, Rebirth - 7, National Movement of Ukraine - 11, Reforms and Orders - 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, "One Ukraine" - 10, non-fractional - 6. [[United]] What will we do next?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u105	You can see that today the daily “Variance” is not planned. But because, but since we almost voted friendlyly for the next plenary week, according to Friday's regulations, we have to have a "Virgin" at 13 o'clock. Is there no objection? You won't? Is Carmazine okay with that? Yes, please, then we're making a recording on the "Victane". Please sign up. Each one is recorded for himself, including John Alexanderovich. Hide your other hand. Yes, please explain. Please take a look at this. One hour. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov Get ready, Verni Dubov. Yes, Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give my word to my colleague at the Communist faction of Rodion Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u107	And co-workers on the committee. Please, the microphone. Mikhail Kuzmich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u108	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable radios, distinguished people's deputies. I would like to make a statement on the position of the Communist faction on the issues that have been vicious this week. These are related to the gas crisis, with the resignation of the Government. Now that you're going home, both friends and strangers meet and ask what's going on. I would like to say that the Communists were among the initiators of these hearings, both in response to the gas crisis and at the resignation of the Government. But I would like to point out that it is natural for various reasons. First. In the gas crisis. I mean, I answer to my opponents. First, it is not the first gas crisis in Ukraine or in the general crisis. You can all remember the crises that have already occurred. It was a food crisis, it was a gas crisis, it was a sugar crisis, it was a gas crisis. Therefore, the communists make this one that the crisis is an integral feature of the society that we have established since 1991, which we are talking about capitalizing Ukraine. But the general pattern here is that this crisis is caused by the destruction of Ukraine's economy. Just before that was hard to write down, who was it to write down these crises? I'll remind you listeners to remember, for example, the sugar crisis. In 1991, our opponents said that we could use sugar to cover almost the entire globe, which was Ukraine's wealth. The sugar industry is gone now. The same could be said of the textile industry and so on and so forth. Therefore, the first cause of the crisis is the destruction of Ukraine's economy, but a new aspect has now been added and it is strangely rather subtle if we have always said that you, the Ukrainians' children, are destroying your economy, because it is an amazing country that builds capitalism, destroying its productive funds, that we have made an external enemy to date. People ask, can't the oligarchs of Ukraine and Russia agree? They can agree, but now we are covering up Russia's hostility in this regard, and so is the vote on the Single Economic Area. I mean, we found a parishioner, and now there's fear, and now there's what's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u109	John Verni Dubov gives the word to Mikola Komaru. Please, Alexander Shevchenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u110	A respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, who now exist in Ukraine, directed the state so strongly that the country today is in serious trouble. The diagnosis is a crisis of irresponsibility in today's personal warehouse. In this situation, Parliament, whose role increased considerably after January 1, had no right to allow the country’s orange disease to become chronic and to destroy the entire body. Understanding the danger, national deputies gave up conservative treatment and applied surgical tools. The Yushchenka government, Yehanurova, who failed to fix the economic situation and betrayed Ukraine's national interests in negotiations with Russia on gas, was removed from the social body as a foreign body. We stress that this has been done exclusively within the framework of current legislation with the use of the tools that the updated Constitution of Ukraine provides to Parliament. However, this political operation caused a side reaction. The government does not want to count on the political realities that followed the entry into force of the changes to the Ukrainian Constitution. Instead of abandoning occupied areas, the only legislative body in the country, parliament, is facing threats and blackmail. Moreover, the President withdrew his signature under the Memorandum of Cooperation with the Opposition. She found a eloquent testimony to the refusal of power to dialogue with all parts of society and all parts of the country. The activities of the Regional Party will be adequate. At the same time, we will do our best not to allow the situation in the country to deteriorate further. A party of regions advocates increased control and responsibility for the government, which will carry out its responsibilities to elect a new Cabinet of Ministers as the new Supreme Council. In the extremely complex political and economic situations that have arisen today, we national deputies, whose responsibility has increased considerably since January 1, have no right to wash our hands and leave our country to the discretion of closing the eighth session of the Supreme Council. Today, we need dozens of important issues of the daily order that Ukrainian citizens expect us to consider. Taking into account the need to adopt a series of important decisions concerning the state's viability, the faction of the “Region of Ukraine” is grateful to our colleagues for supporting our proposal to continue the work of Parliament for the following week, January 17-20. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u111	Alexander Chevchenko. Get ready for John Durres.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u112	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! Today I would like to begin this talk with a quote from my own and our national deputy, Vladimir Zubanov. Today’s newspaper, Voice of Ukraine, writes: “The anti-parliamentary rhetoric of some authorities is destructive, is openly damaging to the external political image of Ukraine and the internal stability of the state.” In my opinion, this is absolutely true, and when asked in the circulars of parliamentary journalists today: “Why do you think that the Supreme Council is the most destabilizing factor in Ukraine?” I came literally yesterday from the district, I was talking to the petropovals, the bruises, the marauders, the wafers, the vagabonds, the Dnipropetrovers, the open-minded zombies, the false exitols, the false sociology, which completely misrepresents the situation that is in places that are in the people. And when no one asked anyone, they cut up new districts, issuing it for the CIA's will, without consulting anywhere, it's not democracy, of course. While everyone is concerned about elections, concerned about the fate of the state, everyone forgets one thing that, unfortunately, the village of Ukraine is in an extremely critical state. And the voters asked me: “Alexandar Shevchenko, you went to the elections, you promised us that the sunflower law would be lifted when the infamous rate of additional export duty was abolished, and unfortunately it was not cancelled. And when 46 people voted in favour of this law, it was the patriots of Ukraine that I wanted to ask everyone else to join, a new bill was passed again. The authors are national deputy Tomic, Martinowski, Shevchenko. Let us finally think that it is enough to resolve the issue of one economic market entity at the expense of another. The only factor can be the state and the budget, its protectionist policies regarding its own producer. The second question, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, and the dependent and independent, and the Soviet and the post - Soviet, socialist and not entirely, resulted in the loss of grain. And even such extremely powerful farms as the “Star” Corporation as the “Agrossion” and others, regardless of whether it is the Plains, or the Dnipropetrovstvo, speak of one thing: dear friends when there is clear market regulation when we understand what conditions we live in? I'm asking you to take my statement for the MP's request. I would very much ask the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Economy, whether or not to do so, Prime Minister, to look again carefully and make sure that the year 2006 is not in vain for Ukraine to be the year of the village, not the year of the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u113	John Drach gives Georgia Manchulenko the word. Prepare Sergey Humiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u114	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian People's Block Kostenka and Plusha. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is concerned about several issues that are important to Ukrainian society. First. We're excited about the underfunding of state budget subsidies for investment projects, and that's what's behind the construction of those or others, the construction of kindergartens, the construction of schools. We are excited about the underfunding of subsidies from the state budget for gasification, first of all, of the rural population, of the construction of gas pipelines, of the same sites. If we want our Ukrainian society to develop dynamically, we will not be able to make progress without solving these problems. Similarly, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party cannot help but say that there is not enough government programs funded by the state budget to date. This is the computerization of rural, primarily rural schools. This is a lack of funding for the school bus program. If we are to care for the future of the Ukrainian nation, we have to take care of the Ukrainian village, the Ukrainian youth, the Ukrainian schoolchildren. The next problem that concerns the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the Ukrainian People's Block of Kostenko and Plushka is that we hope that in 2006 the problems that I just talked about will be properly financed by expenditure from the State Budget for 2006. The next problem is the so-called gas crisis. A greater crisis could now be created in society only when a decision was made on the so-called resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party claims that the Cabinet of Ministers did not sufficiently defend Ukraine's national interests in the negotiation process with the Russian side. But we also have to admit that not only one Ukraine works in the gas market, but primarily the Russian Federation works in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan. And not to be taken into account by these participants in this process, who make their demands when making these agreements, we couldn't, nor could the Cabinet of Ministers count on the participants, which is the process. So the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party calls on Ukrainian citizens, on voters to think very well of us, going into the electoral campaign in 2006, for which the political forces will vote, for those who just rock the Ukrainian stateship, or for those forces that defend the national interests of Ukraine and for the protection of the interests of Ukrainian citizens. This is the position of the Ukrainian People’s Party and the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plusha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u115	This is how Sergey Hira conveys the word Anastasia, to prepare Tupaku, and he conveys the word Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u116	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, the people's deputies of Ukraine! For the third time in recent years, I have come to this rostrum on the same issue: sanatorium services for war veterans, labour and armed forces, all older persons. On 2 December last year, I sent a parliamentary request to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an unwarranted, unlawful exclusion from the tender by the Committee of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund of such a unique medical institution as the Kyiv Bath Hospital, where they have maintained their health for many years by thousands of veterans, appreciating the outcome of the treatment. On December 23, I was asked again. On 11 January, i.e. the day before yesterday, information was received that a number of basic sanatoriums had been held and that older persons had received professional medical care for more than 20 years, including war and labour veterans, would be on board the medical facility and the treatment process this year. Respectable veterans and residents of the capital, and Ukraine! This year, through the Social Insurance Fund, you will not be treated in the Yellows sanatorium under Kiev, in the Kiev ballroom, in the Dubki sanatorium, Zirka, Ukraine in Vorzel - they have not all received a tender. The information collected is, according to a member of the committee, classified, although the fund managers claimed that the tender process was open. Dear Ivan Yakovlevic, in response to the appearance of a storm of outrage in veterans, please give an answer not to me, but to the public through the press in response to a parliamentary request that the voting secrets be disclosed in order to be open and not hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u117	Yes, Stupak gives the word to Assadchev. To prepare, Kenzior will pass the word Grigorovich, and Kenzior will, Grigorovich will pass the word Krutz, where Krutz, please put Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u118	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha Since January 1, 2006, we have gained the validity of the new rules of the Constitution and we must all understand that Ukraine has become a parliamentary-president state today. This is exactly what the Communists and the regions have been fighting for, and all those who are joining the new ruling majority today. Come on, dear friends, for what you've been fighting for, and now keep your promises that you've been talking about. There's a majority in the parliamentary-presidential state that you're identifying today. Today, under the leadership of Parliament, Mr. Litwin and the pro-Kuminian forces, Adam Martinyuk and the Communist forces joined them today, Julius Timoshenko. We fully agree that we are in opposition today. So please secure what you promised: the rights of opposition to your parliamentary majority. But you're still holding the Committee on Rules of Procedure today, which is unacceptable, in a democratic country it should belong to the opposition, the Committee on Freedom, the Committee on Budget Affairs, then keep your promises that you promised when you made changes to the Constitution. And now I'd like to talk about how it ended in 2005, because we're somehow involved in that, and since January 1, you, the honourable majority, are taking full responsibility for the situation in the country. That's it for 2005. Inflation in Ukraine is much less than in Mr. Yanukovich. The budget has been overrun by almost 21 billion compared to what was done by the dignitaries of the “Regions” when they were in charge. The VAT has been increased more than twice due to the cancellation of all shadow schemes. Now, what happened to the gas? When the President took a step to eliminate the shadow schemes in the gas market, who was the first to take action against it? And there were those who cooked their capitals in this gas market. These are the family gravediggers, these locusts, these crumbs. They first came to a standstill, and in the first place the government resigned with the communists to leave behind the entire shadow economy for Ukraine and all the shadow machinations in the gas market that have been eating the economy of Ukraine for 15 years. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Faction, Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka-Plush will demand that the demands of opposition be met in all democratic countries. You've taken responsibility for yourself, and you're running the country today, and you're responsible for the consequences, and we'll be in opposition. And we'll see who will take advantage of them in the March elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u119	Just read the Constitution, you talk to it very much. The position on the establishment of a parliamentary coalition in accordance with the Constitution's Final Provisions should be put into effect after the March 2006 elections. That's the first one. You read it. The other one. If you give us authority, we will gladly take it, but give it to us. Learning to be in opposition, that's very good, it'll learn. Grigorovich Leela. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u120	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear voters, good people of Ukraine! You know, God really loves Ukraine. And I'm glad what happened on January 10th. The masks were taken off, and everything was in place. Almost in the holy writing, on the right hand they will become clean, and on the left they will be unclean, and the people of Ukraine will be judged; for he is wise, he is considerate, and he will see and give an assessment on the 26th of March. Dear friends! I am glad that this happened because I no longer have to explain to people today that where false hair is, there is also false love for Ukraine. False words turned out to be: I will never betray Yashchenka or be with Yanukovich. Betrayed, along with Yanukovic. Therefore, it seems to me that people bearing the title “gas princess” or “gas baron” should not comment on the gas situation at all, have no right, must be removed. Nevertheless, today the capitular color of the flags with a broken heart appeared in the hall, the broken hearts of voters who believed they would not betray. Dear friends! I would like to point out that no one today is surprised by the fact that the fact that the faction of the regions headed by either the tried or the uncondemned Yanukovic is concerned about the fate of Russian equal citizen Mohilevich, but the answer to the list of their voters is “Yes to authoritarianism! So corruption! Yes, machinations! So forgeries!" People see it all. I am most surprised by the position of the law academy and by the history of Mr. Vladimir Litvin. He understood exactly what happened last autumn, and last autumn the people made an honest and true choice. He is both a historian and an academic of right science today who has made a failure to give a slap to the Ukrainian people. Well. Let him count on an estimate of the Ukrainian voters. Dear friends, we have been in Parliament since March 10th, and this is a formation that has already been called by the Ukrainian people, "Not so much the background!" These factions and political forces have gone into the bottle. They don't know how to get out of this bottle, their tragedy. But they can't admit that they have to leave. So I ask you, Ukrainian people, honourable voters, step away from the bottle and throw them away into the ignorance of Ukrainian history forever. Guys! You have upheld your right to the election of the People's President, you must choose a truly responsible national parliament. I'm sure you'll do it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u121	Igor Šurma. Get ready. Vasilyev gives the word Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u122	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition block “No YES!” [[united]] In my three years in the Supreme Council, I have never been as comforted as I am now. Last year, people with sincere orange views came under the authority of the oranges. A carrot duck came out. And now to sit and hear about the untangled hair and the untangled thoughts is one pleasure. You two figure out what you were doing on Maidan, what you promised people. I just refrain from laughing when I hear the previous speaker who wants to ensure the right of his position. I give you my word on the line, Mr. Assadchev. You're not an opposition, you're just offended by power. Neither you nor your colleagues have been given a job, you have failed. And today you want to take yourself to this opposition. And when you talk about Mogilevich, you'll find out whose plane drove the family of the future president from America to Ukraine, and then you'll talk about Mogilevich. And with respect to your authority, I must tell you that it is for me, unfortunately, so far neither “ex” nor “W.O.”. But what democracy looks like, I'm going to show you what it's like in the "pioment" of Ukraine, the Lviv region. We are talking about the tolerance of political thinking. What is worth speaking to the head of the Oliynik government, who in due course jumped from the People’s Movement to the People’s Union, for which the leader of the Lviv movement called it political garbage, said: “Until late, leave the party of Lithuania, the Social Democrats and the “Regions”. And this is a representative of the government, it has to run round tables, it has to consolidate Ukrainian society! And in the Brujovici district of Lviv, all the rules of law in the formation of the territorial commissions are violated. The law also provides for the right to participate in a commission. And contrary to article 21 of the Ukrainian Law, the fifth article voted not to allow social democrats to participate in the work of the territorial commission. However, “Our Ukraine ” unlawfully introduced four representatives into the commission. People want to exercise their right in a referendum – once again, the "Bancomat" project under the auspices of Matvienka gives instructions: anything to prevent people from holding a referendum. [[Article 5 of the 72 Constitutions]] The court lost city power. She lost the courts under the old regime, and she's going to lose because you're acting illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u123	Alexi Korsakov. In the end, I'll give you a line. Jaroslav Kenzier, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u124	Devoted citizens of Ukraine! Faction of the Party of Regions of Ukraine, Korsakov. Voting the faction of the Party of the Regions for the resignation of the Government is primarily a political decision. This assessment of the “orange” authority for the year of its existence was made by the people. However, instead of apologizing to people, the authorities have abandoned their obligations to society. The President of Ukraine, in his inaugural speech in Maidan, vowed to unite the people of Ukraine. What unity can we now speak of? The cracks that occurred during the presidential elections were transformed by power into deep trenches. The President promised to initiate the adoption of opposition laws without delay. Where is he? Victor Yushchenko's words and case differ constantly. His inconsistencies are spoken in both Ukraine and abroad. How many mutually exclusive statements he has made that are divergent from actual political action. The decision to withdraw the signature under the memorandum is another clear testimony. The President gave the floor, he took it. Could that be so in a democratic society? Nope. By withdrawing its signature, Yushchenko therefore refuses to pass the most important laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the President of Ukraine, on the status and rights of the opposition, on the separation of business from power, on the non-interference of power in the election of people's deputies and deputies of local councils, on the non-use of administrative resources, and on the prevention of political repression against the opposition. Regrettably, the conflict between the executive branch and the Supreme Council is deliberately provoked and exacerbated by the first. This is worth revealing to the leader of the electoral company, Roman Immortal, who acknowledged that he had recommended that the President should expand the lawfully elected Parliament. The unconstitutionality of such a step and nothing to say. Such intentions and actions are a confirmation of the President's unwillingness to live in a climate that has entered into force of polytreform. The party of the regions, without denying, in principle, the possibility of continuing negotiations with the authorities, now sets its main objective of ensuring free will in the upcoming elections, preventing them from being falsified by the authorities. Only fair elections change the political and economic situation in Ukraine. After the elections, we are prepared to assume responsibility for the situation in the country and to form a democratic coalition in the new Parliament and the Government of People's Confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u125	Jaroslav Kenzior, to prepare Shevchuk, conveys the word Glady Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I want to thank my colleague, Valeria Assadchev, for the brief but very convenient analysis of the entire gas conflict problem between Russia and Ukraine, and which has moved here to the session room of our Parliament. But I'd like to look at this gas problem a little bit from the other side. We all understand that the main cause of this conflict was the vengeance of the Kremlin of Ukraine for the fact that the Orange Revolution took place here for the first time that Ukrainian leadership became the truth of Ukrainian leadership, which gained the courage to defend Ukrainian national interests and refused to creep into Moscow and take all the hints of Moscow's leadership. So we, those who are voting today from different rostrums that we could get before infinity or at least by 2013 Russian gas at $50. It's either a conscious misunderstanding, or just a fake in front of the electorate. We understand how it's capable of keeping the Russian Federation's agreements. Please tell me, was there even a single agreement that was signed, and there were hundreds, within the framework of the SND, Russia kept? Absolutely not. Did Russia adhere to free trade agreements and a free trade zone within the SND? Absolutely not. She came out of her own interests. Did she respect the Ukrainian borders, remember Tuzla? Will it adhere to the Sebastopol covenants, covering 140 hectares of illegal Ukrainian land? Of course, she did so knowingly, regardless of the agreements signed. But most importantly, as it were, the position of the leader of BUT. I once again in September boldly dared to say that Russia's removal of all criminal cases from the BUT leader simply for so, for the fine hair, for the thin waist, for the beautiful eyes did not happen. Moscow had to pay for something. And certainly, Julia Timoshenko today became the instrument that Moscow will manipulate to disrupt the situation in Ukraine and today, no doubt, Ukrainian voters, the Ukrainian people have come to understand very clearly what kind of coalition was created. I'm sorry, I'm not saying anything rude, I'm saying coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u127	Michael Glady, please. The word “Hearer of John ” conveys the word“ to prepare. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, you know, I had a very different theme, but looking at who remained in the hall, mostly men and so fiercely attacking beautiful politics, Julius Volodymyrný Timoshenko, I cannot keep my mouth shut. I would like to remind Mr. Assadchev, when this room was voted for a polytreform, the only faction that didn't vote was the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and your faction voted and applauded President Kuchmi with a loud applause when he signed this bill in this room. And one more thing, citizens of Ukraine. A few months from now, you will experience this treacherous agreement signed by the government of Yehanurov after what is called a gas problem. Literally January, February, March, our goods, which will be produced on the gas, will also affect the wallets of our citizens. I think that when you go to the post office to pay for the heat, for the energy you consume, you'll remember who's right. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko warned us that there was no way to change the signing of the contracts that guaranteed us gas by 2009. Why did they do this? I think the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council will look into this in detail and let you know. Dear men, you can't work like we do today, and in Parliament, you have some factions in mind, and in our government, when you betray the interests of the people, and in certain positions, I think that all the deputies in the Supreme Council and all the citizens should first stand for the national interests of our state, and then talk about their party colors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u129	John the Rabbit. The Colony of Alexander. I can't see. Boiko, he gave the word "Cybenko." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u130	John Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha. Dear National Deputies! Every day we hear from the initiators of political reform, which has changed the form of government from the President-Parliamentary to the President-President-in-Office since 1 January 2006. With this reform, the role of Parliament is increasing significantly. How can we ensure that Parliament is accountable to its people? Here's the key question today. How can we put order in this state when today the state is beginning to rule the parliamentary majority itself, formed four years ago? So we have to start with ourselves first. People’s deputies must limit themselves, eliminate parliamentary inviolability. But yesterday, according to our insistence, we put in order the day's issue of including bills that eliminate parliamentary integrity. And who blocked the decision yesterday? I'm telling you by factions. The Party of Regions voted 0, Communist 0, People's Party 0, People's Block of Lithuania 0, Social Democrats 0, and One Ukraine of Hubski 0. [[United]] Who doesn't want to set order today, starting with himself? The second question. We voted to restore justice in order to reduce differentiation in wages and pensions. So that he can't get an employee's salary of 20,000 dollars and a man in 334 bracelets. Again, these same parties blocked the agenda of the issue to reduce pay differentials. Mr. Shurma don't scream because you won't beat me up. A thief's hat is on fire! You don't have to. One more question. If we are. We have already found in the gas conflict that we are dealing with the fifth column of Moscow in the Ukrainian authorities. Never would the Ukrainian government have signed such a treaty if the Russian authorities had not relied on the fifth column. I called the factions that form this fifth column: this is the Party of Regions, this is the Social Democrats, this is the only Ukraine, this is our venerable left communists and many others. [[United]] So today, nothing to say but the responsibility of one government, you have to start with yourself, because today you're launching an enemy into your country, you don't want the unity of the Ukrainian people, you're willing to tear your people away from your government, you're ready to let cold, cold into our people's homes, just to get a rematch of the old oligarchic power. This will not be a rematch, for the Ukrainian people are well aware that you do not want what is good today. Thus, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy advocates banning activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u131	Help: Communists unanimously voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily issue of pension restrictions for officials, John Alexanderovich. Yes, please, Cibenko, prepare Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mr. Rabbit, I ask you not to lie all over Ukraine. As one of the authors of the draft law on the maximum pension limit, I claim that yesterday a faction of Communists and I, as the author of the document, voted in favour of this document. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to continue with what my colleague, Valentin Alexiyovich Anastassiev, expressed. With the coming to power of the new old political team led by President Yushchenk, we have received another confirmation of justice, a claim that “appetite comes during meals”. This team began with the theft, not yet stolen, not "adopted" of public property. After the “Cruvoristals”, after the Nicopolski Ferrospoline, after the “Nazot” merger, it reached more small, but no less lean pieces. During the last days, the committee received several collective calls from the Chinese who protested the destruction of the Kyiv Ballenology Hospital. It is the destruction of a powerful, modern, medical facility where for 20 years the Chinese received qualified help and treatment. The mechanism is traditional and well - known. During the days of the so - called tender, the medical facility was denied the opportunity to sell its travels, and thus the procedure of artificial bankruptcy began. And then the object will be donated for nothing, and I insist, not sold, but donated to one of the pillars of the orange riot. And it doesn't matter who it is, whether it's a powder, or a Trelliac, or a Zwania, the main thing that won't be devoted to its own. In Kiev, 80 percent of the voters voted for Yushchenka and then for the orange team. This is how this power repays China. So what can we expect in this situation is Lugansk, Donetskina, Crimea, and so forth. In the light of this policy and this behavior of the national socialist authorities, I'm no longer surprised that the so-called Jubilee of the Orange Revolution of the Chinese simply didn't come to Midan and that's why they were transported from all over these people. I would like to state that the committee will do its utmost to prevent the theft of the Kyiv Ballenology Hospital by conducting a field meeting at the Ballenology Hospital. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the address of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u133	Yuri Solomatin, the next Anastasius, conveys the word to Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u134	Lord of the motors, don't put a shadow on your knitting. Dear colleagues and dear compatriots! Everything was mixed up in the House of the Oblonskys, that is, in Ukraine. Where the opposition, where most beautiful motorists claim they are now the opposition, and the new coalition majority in the Ukrainian Parliament must take full responsibility for the events that are taking place. Yes, and we are ready, but then please say, the only legitimate source of authority is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if you recognize that, as of 1 January, Ukraine has become a parliamentary-presidential republic, and the only legitimate source of authority is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why? Why does President Yushchenko not resign voluntarily, who does not have a majority in Parliament, and whose Government is already temporarily performing its duties, especially since he himself was elected a minority of the Ukrainian people? I'm explaining for the uncomprehensible. When Yushchenko was elected, 77 per cent of voters came to the polls and voted in favour of him for only 52. You multiply these two numbers and you get 40 percent. Such images in Ukraine have now been usurped by the power of a minority, the President of minorities, the Government, in resignation, the Ministers, in resignation and the minority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the executive branch and to the President, please do not scream too loud, your time has passed and you do not have to blame the patriots of Ukraine, the patriots of the Russian Kiev, the Russian country for any change. You're Euroholues and you're traitors to the Russian homeland of Russia of Kiev! The suitcase, the train station, Europe, that's where you belong! Go back to your tents before it's too late! You have only one opportunity today to repent to the people of Ukraine for your crimes, for your deception, for your people, perhaps even forgive you, and if you can't repent, you have already grown enough in the forests of Ukraine for the Jews who are waiting for you and for you to choose for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u135	Please, John Alexanderovich Gerasimov, the dry one has passed on the word Usachenko Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u136	Gerasimov, the Communist faction. Appeal to veterans of war, labour, military service, children of war and all Ukrainian citizens. Dear friends! Brothers, frontalists! Glorious veterans of labour and military service! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I'm worried about the fate of the Ukrainian family! With emotional pain, I see the country being systematically destroyed. The rate of economic growth is falling, and the remnants of the once-mighty folk-equity complex created by us, the people of the older generation, are moving. The social protection system is being destroyed. Ukraine is increasingly sacrificing the interests of the United States of America and NATO, under the hysterical cries of the regime on hunger without war, without natural disasters, we have become 5 million less! We are becoming more and more strangers on our own land. Without stopping this genocide, we will lose not only our Family, which we have been protecting, but also our homeland, our children and our grandchildren. We have an obligation to address this challenge in the forthcoming elections for councils at all levels. As a warlord general, a man who gave up military service without a small 60-year-old, I understand that the hour of “H” is an hour of action. Only the Communist Party of Ukraine has the power to stop the country from slipping into the abyss. It is she who has a concrete, clear, well-certified programme of country withdrawal from the crisis, a national leader capable of bringing together and leading the people – Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko. Needed human resources capacity and, most importantly, practical experience in meeting this challenge. That is why the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, in its plenary on 29 November 2005, adopted the only right decision to support the electoral programme of the Left Forces, headed by the Communist Party of Ukraine, as the only one that is in the interests of the working people, veterans, disabled persons and Ukrainian citizens, aimed at restoring the country's prosperous people to conditions of dignity. This decision is supported by an absolute majority of the veteran movement. There is not an ounce of advance in this formula, only the Company of Ukraine has proven itself to be a systematic, consistent advocate of the interests of human labour and therefore a veteran pensioner, a disabled person. There are many examples. Here are some. The Bureau of the CC Companies of Ukraine is initiating the All-Ukrainian Veteran Protection Campaign, during which veteran communists achieved social benefits. The Communist faction alone is the only fighting party against the Sotovsky and NATO Cabal. It was the Company of Ukraine that stopped the march of U.N. soldiers in Krestatika and remained faithful to the ideals of the Great October. On behalf of 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Larissa, please prepare, says the word Bondarchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u138	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Overcoming illegal immigration is an extremely pressing problem for every country in the world, especially Ukraine, where there has been a real threat to the health and life of citizens. Many examples can be cited when, in the form of a commercial structure, an established system of smuggling across borders and the registration of foreigners is in place. According to experts today, 90 percent of illegal migrants are organized by groups consisting mainly of citizens of India, China, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, who are moving through pre-developed routes through criminal formations that provide migrants with a fixed salary for housing, transportation, leadership support, forged documents. Trafficking has turned into a highly profitable illegal business that is controlled by organized crime. In addition, the detection of illegal migrants in Ukraine, their further retention in reception distributors over a month, and then the eruptions are burdensome for the state's budget. The situation calls for more decisive steps to be taken in order to manage migration processes. That is, the creation of a single centralized interdisciplinary system for the calculation of persons crossing the border of Ukraine, deported persons who have been given a decision to ban entry into Ukraine. Legislative regulation of the legal status of persons for whom information has not been received from embassies and constitutional institutions, confirmation of their person and determination of the order of their identification, provision of financial assistance to Ukrainian citizens for the provision of reliable information to relevant authorities on the whereabouts of illegal migrants in the territory of the State, provision of responsibility for assisting Ukrainian citizens to stay in the territory of the State of illegal migrants through the provision of housing, transport or other services, close interaction with relevant authorities of foreign states in the fight against crimes in this area, the extension of the practice of joint operations, cooperation and coordination with Interpol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u139	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction. Prepare Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u140	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Respectable radio audiences! I really feel very sorry for you because as we approach the electoral campaign, on March 26, we have more and more opposition in Ukraine. It has come to the point that the most pervasive, orange, nationalist factions that have actually elected the two Governments in the past year have today claimed to be in opposition. I think I understand why this is happening. Today, no one wants to be responsible for the results of the Yushchenko team, everyone wants to be in opposition in order to come to power in March 2006. As a communist, it's easy for me to monitor these movements from power to opposition, from the opposition to power, because the Company of Ukraine, you know, has been in systemic opposition since 1991. For us, it doesn't matter, in principle, whether it's Yanukovich's team, Timoshenko or Ehanurov's. They're all bourgeois representatives. We Communists, in principle, are against capitalist production. We can therefore comment on Yanukovic's actions when, as GDP rises, living standards have not improved for the population. We can also comment on the actions of Yulia Timoshenko, in fact, everyone here remembers that there have been four crises for nine months, not over, the most helpless Government has been successful. I recall the crises: this is an increase in gas prices, this is a sugar crisis, this is an increase in wages in advance for its ministers, all of which can be attributed. Echanurov also continued the same course in principle and led to a gas crisis. I would like to see a few strokes in the gas crisis. Now the Julia Timoshenko faction is trying to accuse the current authority of having made mistakes and treachery in recent months. No, comrades. America's policies, pro-American policies, the fact that the Fifth Colony -- the United States of America in Ukraine -- was a 91st Project after the collapse of the USSR, it worked. In response to such pro-NATOV actions, Russia had decided to move to market prices. And by order. I have to say that the Communist faction has not only voted because gas prices have been raised for resignation. We voted in favour of the line that the current Government has led to a sharp decline in GDP, a decline in jobs in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u141	Paul Silent, Olena Bondarenko. I can't see. Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Ukrainian People’s Party, Paul Mokchan I would like to remind you that January-month is extremely important for Ukraine. And I would like to bring back those who are still interested in history, particularly the Hero of Ukraine, the academics, our famous historian Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, to a 252-year-old age when the Embassy of Bogdan Hmelnick made a deal with the king of Moscow. There were marked all the looseness of Cossacks on Cossack soil and where they ended up after a while. When Jaroslav Kenzior counted the numerous violations that existed during arrangements in an independent Ukraine with Russia, he did not mention only many of the things that took place in the history of the twentieth century. I'm sending us back to this moment to remind great historians, great activists who were driving, historical Ukrainians, and who were going to Moscow by themselves. What was Yanukovic doing recently in Moscow? Did he bring us new gas prices? Why did Vladimir Mikhailovich recently travel to Moscow? For the solstice? What was Julia Volodymyryn driving recently — after solstice, did she arrange for gas prices that had already been planned? It wasn't a spontaneous story, it was all known. And I'd like to remind you of what they've done today who's hoping for the old scheme. How did Ignashka’s travels end, or Iwaska, Brukhovecki’s? You recall that he was impaled. Who? Cossack's office. Because you've been betrayed. This is inevitable for all traitors. But I thought that the historical lessons teach us something. Why did those under the red veil who were supposed to be the first to consolidate around the national affairs warm up when the budget fell when Yehanurov was sent today? You sent democracy, not just that, you sent democracy outside this room. You can see for yourself how all things that started with Moscow can end. Next, you are well aware of who will come to this Supreme Council and what stories. By giving up everyone under Frost's authority to the distinguished historian Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can predict what the consequences will be for Ukraine. And so I would like to say: The Ukrainian National Party, the National Ukrainian Kostenka Block, Plushka, stands on one side, warns: unite and defend national interests, not sobola! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u143	Didenko passes the word Tkalenka. He'll be followed by Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u144	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, we are with you when the next hysteria of the electoral company begins. And we are witnesses when the fifth pillar of the Mocca, in which they do not line up, with any slogans, I fully support what Paul Mokchan has just said. After the solstice, they forgot their Fatherland. Once again, whatever factions they represent today is about our independence, about the development of our Ukrainian state. A year ago, the Ukrainian people made their choice in the parliamentary elections, and I am confident that the Ukrainian people will confirm their choice. And as a representative of the National Movement of Ukraine, which is part of the “Our Ukraine” bloc, I am confident that the situation that arose in the Supreme Council will be properly assessed by our voters. You and I are standing on the ruby: Where will Ukraine go after March 2006? I hope that it will go the right way, towards civilization, towards European civilization, to finally become a proud, independent Ukrainian state. So I would like, before the New Year’s Eve, all of you to enjoy happiness, health, and wisdom so that we can finally declare ourselves a wise, ancient and outstanding European nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u145	Yes, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u146	The honourable remnants of the national deputies, the honourable, distinguished national deputies who remained, who remained in the hall, I agree. And the remains that came out, that's what it's all about. I would like to point out that the radios here are clearly misleading. Because in this situation, when there is nothing to say, they move on to personalities. A person who loses arguments and is intellectually limited, shortsighted, secondary, becomes a person. This suggests that its intellectual level is below that of the plentuse under which it lives. So I'd like to emphasize that. And this, and when, you know, you try to cry me out here, it is a good thing that God has given you, with a voice, a bad thing, that he has given you. So I would like in this situation that you respect at least your status, if not yourself. So I would still like to go back to the subject that I wanted to raise. And your screams are the only thing that inspires me to do that, thank you. So when we talk about who betrayed someone. A gas deal was signed, this gas nonsense that put a stop to Ukraine's struggle for its own independence, energy. And this dot was placed. And the person who placed that dot was retired. And it's done right. Because it would be better to resign this government than Ukraine. Because it was important to us. To resign the government, which placed the factions of the Regions in power, here, unfortunately not, they confirmed both the Lithuanian faction and the faction of our Ukraine. It is you who have brought your government to power, and you are responsible. That's why. I don't know if you went with her, you could testify. If you have traveled there, please testify. What TV? Except for yours. She went there to take down a criminal case that was hanging on her. And the criminal case was for insubordination as a witness. As a witness. So you have to lie skillfully. If you can’t lie, at least don’t take it. So I'd like to go to the faction of this skeleton and the cloak that you'd like to think before you speak. You cannot usurp the right to defend Ukraine. You've already sunk it once, and no one's gonna give it to you again. So I want to go to the audience, don't believe this nonsense, this is a sign of illness. This disease occurs when a person realizes that he has lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u147	Yeah, time's up, but two more people are asking for it. And the lines, I remember, the lines. Mironenko is very much asked. There's Mironenko and get ready for Carmazine. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u148	I'm in. Look. Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mironenko, Crimea, Fifth Electoral District. Respected compatriots before me, Mazepa's supporters swore, as usual, Moscow, and one of them asked where Ukraine would go? Ukraine is convinced that it will not go in the way of the Mazepinians, but in the way of Bogdan Hmelnick. And it's legal. Remember, when there was a battle involving Swedes and Russian, Ukrainians and Belarusians together, only a pathetic bunch of traitors followed Mazepa. The same will be true in the future. The traitors, the meses, who have been making Ukraine since they were 91 years old, will go away. They will be cast down and cursed by the people because they, precisely they, have brought down the economy twice, have reduced the standard of living of ordinary citizens several times. These people, who I believe and repeat constantly, have been sold to the United States of America for not 33 pieces of silver or a dollar, but for a considerable amount of money, have consistently sworn the same Russia and the same communists, including me, one of these traitors, I have listed those against the Single Economic Area that Ukraine needs to establish economic, trade, economic growth, an increase in the standard of living of the people, and I have called Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Moroz, and must be called Kostenko, Ehanurova and others. But one of them was offended, and said, "No, it's not sticking, it's a lie, and one of them is the Frost." Did these forces vote in favour when I suppressed the first draft of the Single Economic Area Order in 2003? No, they didn't vote in favour. When the Act of Ratification on the need to form a Single Economic Area was considered, did they vote in favour? No, they did not vote in favour. Did the need to accelerate the creation of the Single Economic Space, when requested by the Communist and Regional factions factions, the same forces did not vote in favour? Dear compatriots, I think everyone should come to a conclusion, if we want to live and continue to destroy, then we will vote for liars, which I just said, for pro-American salespeople. And if we wish to live better, we will support those forces that for the Single Economic Area of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. They often ask, What block are we referring to? We're referring to Yuri Carmazin's Block. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, allow me to welcome you to the New Year's Eve Christmas and the New Year that is coming, and to remove all the disputes that are there. And the gas problem for Ukraine will be solved and everything will go away because Ukraine is an extremely rich country, and the geological reserves of coal are over 120 billion tons, which are roughly one-and-a-half times larger than the largest oil reserves in the Middle East. And so let's do without the hysterics, let's plan on how to move on. And to the government that is ignoring today, which is not what I'm drawing the attention of Prime Minister Yehanurov, there should be representatives of the government sitting here until the end of the session. What I'm saying is that today, coal reserves for underground gasification are more than 14 billion. 1 million tons and incineration 1 million tons. Tonnes of coal can be produced by 3-4 billion. cubic meters of gas. Take it down, write it down, and write down that laying down and sinking mines are today criminal acts that have been going on for many years, they need to be stopped. I'm showing you where to go to find energy dependence. Overcoming energy dependence and finding independence. Now about what happens now that the government feels and some ministers are above the law. There are cases like this. I would now like to address the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the holding fund, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Here is the Ukrainian Defence Minister’s Order of 684 of 14 November 2005 “To allocate additional funds to the state-owned investment firm, where the military part of A0624 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is destroyed by the resolution of the housing program. Military town 182, located on the street of Rososhanska, 3 in Kiev, 12 hectares [12 ha] of land! The bases of measurement technology of types of the Armed Forces are designed to perform specific, specific tasks of their own kind for meteorological services, hydroacoustics, magnetic measurements for the Navy, for missiles. 2138 — a base of measurement technology for the Armed Forces — works in the metrology of missile testing stations. These are also “Bug”, “Cube”, “Ossa”, “Arrow-1”, “Arrow-10”, “Igla” by the PPS troops, the anti-air defence forces. This is a threat to Ukraine's security. I'm asking you to cancel this order. I'm asking you to return to these military towns, including cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u151	No, Yuri Anatolyovich, we had to start there. Yes, please, everyone is satisfied, except for the three who ask for a line. Please, Assadchev, one minute behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha I'm just saying, dear friends, that after the Ukrainian People's Party's Orange Revolution, there were only two posts, and basically, it was the governor's office, and we're ready to take responsibility in the Kiev area today, in the Plains region, we're not giving up. But you, the honorable Communists, do not give up on what you are running today. Today, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, a Communist, is presiding over Parliament today along with a host of major cities, Lithuania. And today you are running the majority that took place in Parliament as early as 2002. This is the majority of the bushmen, the Communists, and Julia Timoshenko joined them. We were in opposition at the time, and we stayed now. And let's be correct, this is the only requirement we have for you to ensure the rights of opposition and to be responsible for the entire situation in the country, starting on January 1, 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u153	Yes, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u154	John Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plush. Here one of the speakers, from the Communists, Mr. Zibenko, claimed that I was lying, claiming that the KPU faction did not vote in favour of the day-to-day question of wage and pension restrictions. I declare that I have told the truth, and in my confirmation, I quote the results of yesterday's vote. For inclusion in the agenda of Bill 8445-1, in which it is proposed to limit wages and communist pensions gave zero votes as well as the National Block of Lithuania, SDPU(o) Kravchuk, “the only Ukraine” of Hubski. With regard to the elimination of the immunity of MPs, I would like to inform you, Mr. Deputies, and all of the citizens that my bill on the elimination of parliamentary immunity has already been passed by the committee, and yesterday it was the faction of the KPU, the Party of Regions, the SDPU, that cut him off from the Supreme Council. So read the papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u155	I'll do it again. Solomonine, sit down. Please take your place. I know what to do without you. Please, Storm Igor Replica for one minute. Please, Shurmi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u156	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party, opposition block “No YES!” [[united]] I didn't vote in this room for Julia Timoshenko when she was appointed Prime Minister, so I did it in public by sounding my voice in this room, and I motivated her. But the way former orange comrades treat their contemporaries today, it doesn't do you any good as men at least, the Social Democrats don't do that to women, we don't do that. As for the political power that Yushchenko threw out the door and gave them no office. Now they served as dogs in orange scarfs in Maidan, once barking, and now howling. So when you talk about pensions, you tell your people who are in power, and you're not an opposition, you tell them how much money they make, and you tell your former party member who's been in the N.N.U., Kirilenko how much he's got to pay. You're responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-13-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, then, we will finish. I remind you again of yesterday's vote. The point is that 8445 of the Law on “Restrictions of Pensions for Senior Officials of the State” was introduced by Simonenko and Cibenko. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers came to their senses and began to correct the mistakes of six months ago, and at number 8445-1, he made his own project. And so the Communists unanimously voted in favour of Project 8445 by the national MPs Simonenko and Cibenko did not vote accordingly – in favour of the government, because it was later introduced, the difference is great – it doesn't have to be plagiarism. That's one thing. The other one. A great deal has been mentioned today by the Head of the Supreme Council. We've already agreed with you that in the absence of a person we won't mention his last name when he's in the hall, let's get into a controversy. I can only say one thing. The head of the Supreme Council, as well as his First Deputy, do the will of most national deputies. When last December was the will of another majority and the previous Janukovich government was illegally retired, you did not shout that Litwin or someone else was violating the Rules, because there was the will of the Hall, there was a need for a number of votes – 226, if I am not mistaken. A year later, when the majority of the hall had 250 votes, it was not the Head’s fault, but those who were in power, for you were so free of charge. But, dear colleagues, today’s session, including showing that we need a little break, so by Tuesday we will have the strength to celebrate the new year, and I want Basil to enter every home tomorrow, to pour good and grain on every home to make peace and good. And we're going to work it out in Parliament, and in March, the people will determine and give us an assessment. Good luck. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin on January 17th. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
