ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies please take their seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Please register. [[10:02:41]] Registered -419 There are 419 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National MPs, on May 4, 2006, the Central Election Commission recognized the elected and registered the National Deputy of Ukraine in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Yulia Block Timoshenko Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic. In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenko Grigori Omelanovic, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Grigory Omelyanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-07-m0.u2	I, Omelchenko Grigori Omelyanovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us welcome the formation of the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy, Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic, and wish him every good and successful work. [[Applause]] Honorable National MPs, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic, into the composition of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Ukraine celebrated Journalism Day. Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome Ukrainian journalists to a professional festival. To wish them creative achievements, freedom of speech and firm position, and to remain leaders of social thought. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him health and success on the difficult and responsible way to serve the people of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an announcement. Two suggestions came in. The first proposal came from three factions: Block Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The second proposal was made by the Party of Regions, the factions of Communists and the factions of the Party of “Regions” on the possibility of making a statement on various issues in order to exchange information. The speeches are offered on a variety of issues, these are political speeches. I'll ask the questions in order of their coming. First question. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make an announcement, and you'll understand. The temporary Bureau of the session received a statement from three factions: the Yulia Block Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, requesting a recess until 14 June 2006 to hold further consultations on the issues of article 16 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the negotiation of a coalition agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! According to part two of article 19 and article 50 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the three MP factions' vote on the announcement of a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until June 14. Turn on the "Council" system, please vote. [[10:07:34]] For -227 versus -5, hold -0. Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The work of the Supreme Council will continue on June 14, 2006. Thank you.
