ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:00:02]] There are 417 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues! Let's welcome our colleague, Andrey Vilenovich Senchenka, today is his birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, announcements, and statements. People's deputies would like to sign up, please, who's going to make the statements. Please, Jakimenko Mikola, faction of the Party of Regions. Get ready for Lockup.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u2	I'd like a word with you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u3	Please, Vasil Kiselov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to address you as chairman of the plenary and regret that there is no Alexander Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, asking you to respond accordingly, as provided for in the 51st article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when there is an open lie and a vocal accusation, we must stop it from this rostrum throughout the country. Twice now from this rostrum, and then in the evening, all the TV channels were charged that Yanukovic had increased from 13 to 15 taxes on the income of natural persons. I am convinced that voters should know that the bill was tabled by a member of the BEUT faction Teryohinim. Secondly, for almost a month now, a woman in white and with hair has been asking about the cancellation of the benefits to national MPs. It is necessary, Adam Ivanovich, that the electorate know that it is Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko, when she was Prime Minister, who signed an order setting up an active salary for all officials and at the same time the salary paid to the national deputies is set from the salary paid by the Prime Minister. Third. The BUT faction supported Act No. 7621 of 12 October 2005 on the granting of benefits to national deputies in respect of pension insurance. Four. The BUT faction itself and Timoshenko personally supported Law 5663 of June 17, 2004 on benefits to national deputies for free medical care, including free travel for treatment and transportation. Fifth. I'm paying attention to everyone who wants to hear that it's Mr. Turchinov, the first deputy head of the BUT faction, who is one of the co-authors of Law 2162 on the provision of national deputies with a service home, including monetary compensation. So, if you're honest, Julia Volodymyrna? If you, Julius Volodymyrically, and your faction sincerely wants to correct its mistakes, and our faction also thinks that the aid is too much, I suggest Timoshenko go out to this rostrum after me, I deliberately used her last name to give her the right to a replica. She is personally and her faction I'd like to state today that they're filing waivers against the MP's immunity and the benefits she's offering to cancel. Personally, I'll be the second person to turn her down. And another important moment. The population of Sevastopol, Balaklavi, Feodosia, Yalta are concerned about what is happening today in the Armed Forces. This is about the Yaltin military sanatorium, Theodosius, and so on. So I'm proposing to hear this week's report by the secretary of defense of Gristenka to look into all of these issues, including the acquisition of Mini-Defense objects. Above all, why there is no order in the Ukrainian army and why our children die in peacetime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u5	Please, Mikola Zamkovenko. Is Mikola Ivanovich there? Yes, please, it's Tomenko. Prepare Kowsel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to hear from our colleagues in the Party of Regions that they have decided today to give up the benefits. I am pleased that we will finally make the only right decision in solidarity, and Parliament will vote in favour of our bill, the Timoshenko, Tomenko, Bodnar bill, on restricting or canceling the benefits not only to the people's deputies, but also to other high-ranking people. But such things should be done by vote, not by statements. So I ask, Adam Ivanovich, on the next Conciliation Council to put our bill on the abolition of the benefits, and then not by word, but by vote, to eliminate these benefits. But for today, I think there's a more serious problem that we've forgotten since yesterday. From today all over Ukraine, the change in housing and utilities tariffs are beginning, and in some regions electricity tariffs are changing. And our position is finally to listen to the government, which mechanism, which compensation procedure, which grant procedure. Go outside and talk to people. People in shock today, they don't know what's waiting for them, who's going to get the grant back, who's going to pay it in full. We have Kiev, you know, a 3-3.4-fold increase in prices. We have a city head, a man with a planetary cosmic vision, who said that we would have very rich people pay for themselves and for everyone else, and very poor people, not what they wouldn't pay, but also take money from those rich. I wonder, how will the government work with the Kiev City Administration and provide such a housing and utility system? I would like to explain in this session hall the way we live from December 1st and December 1st. What will be the result for the poor person of an increase of 3 and 3.4 times? So we insist that the government offer a clear and only procedure for all cities. It is not possible in one place, as in Kiev, when the entire energy and utility sphere is privatized by one family, or by several families and “Pravex” will increase by 3-4, and elsewhere, for example, by 1 or 1.5 times. There must be one clear system of approach. The second problem as we debate the budget at the local level is once again a land fever. Yesterday in Kiev, during the night when the TV broadcast on TRC Kiev was turned off, such a fantastic ground fever syndrome took place. without discussion, somewhere between 50 and 60 questions were voted on the ground. No one knows how this was considered, what the price, what the principles were. I would like our committee dealing with this matter of local self - government not only to listen to the Kiev City Administration. And other local councils and we stopped this land dumpster that started in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u7	Yes, please, Kovzal conveys the word to Oleg Laszko, prepare for Belarus. Now Kowzel, you're after him, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u8	As the head of the budget committee pointed out yesterday, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko put forward the most proposals for the next year's budget project. However, most of them were not included in article 65, which sets the minimum cost of living. They are based on the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of April 14, 2000, No. 656 food sets, non-food kits and service sets for major social and demographic groups. Since the approval of these sets, however, six years have passed, and the approach to determining the priority needs of a person who, in turn, requires additions or removals from the identified sets of positions has changed. This is particularly true of the need to take account of some of the medical or socio-economic benefits. In 2005, an expert commission, comprising representatives from central executive bodies, employers and trade unions, was developed and approved: on February 22, this year, the summary document of the expert commission was reviewed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, this was not reflected in the calculation of the minimum cost of living, the number of which is proposed in article 65 of the draft budget. Thus, the entire budget project for the following year is based on minimum subsistence rates based on food kits, non-food kits and service sets for the main social and demographic groups of the six-year-old population. As a result, the subsistence minimum as a basic social standard should be recalculated. The same applies to article 89 of the draft budget for the following year, which envisions spending 10 billion dollars on privatization. In particular, 1 billion 896 million to support the agri-industrial complex. I'm not an agrarian. But I made a budget offer: 200 million would be set aside in the following year to pay back their farming costs for the construction of social facilities in the countryside. Over a billion, 1 billion 119 million dollars in five years of government debt to landowners. Agriculture’s collective farms build gas pipelines, repair schools, hospitals, and the state tricked them. Article 6 of the Rural Development Priority Act promised no compensation or compensation. I think that next year we have to fix this, and that people will get their money so that the village will be restored to life. For without gas, without water, without the light of life there will be no life. And if the state does not have money for this, it is important to encourage private owners to invest their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u9	Oleg Belarus, please. After him, Pachesuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u10	Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. Our great forerunner, writer Olesia Potter, urged us: Think of the great, think of the chief, think of Ukraine. Today, in the heat of the day, we forget about the main thing — Ukraine needs a long - term national development strategy or a national development strategy. The United States has a strategy of 50 years. More recently, in 1989, China set the task of developing a development strategy and becoming the most powerful economic country in the world. This was the design of a strategy board. This strategy has been developed, and today China is amazed by its economic wonder, its economic wonder. My statement would like to be a reference to the President and to the government in parallel with the drafting of the Supreme Council bills on the principles of internal and external policy, national interest laws, co-author or one of the authors, I am a bill on foreign policy. We need to organize ourselves on an interfractional non-political basis and start developing a national development strategy, at least for 20 years. Without such a strategy, Ukraine has no prospect. Please consider my speech as an appeal to all factions, to all the political forces to take an active constructive and productive part in the development of such a strategy, because in a globalized world, even if there is a strategy, there will be competition and strife, and without strategy, we are doomed to the sidelines of the pillars of development and especially to the quality of socio-economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Yes, Pachetsuk gives the word to acid, please. Get ready for Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that the BUT faction without screwups in this room today would say that they're not declaring, but they're giving up what they call the benefits, as they say they're receiving today's MPs. Then it'll be okay. Everything else is populism and nothing more. I repeat, I will be second in person after Julia Volodymyrna, after the faction of BUT, which forms such a mandate. Once again, when Julia Volodymyrna and her faction make up the integrity of the MP, I'll be second after her. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u13	He's the first one after her, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u14	I'll be the first one after her. Dear colleagues! Because until now, every single one of you, the BUT faction that's tearing up a shirt today, you're getting all the supplements, all the so-called benefits, you're going to endure transportation, you're getting apartments, you're going to tell us about all of Ukraine, and you're getting pensions. So I ask Adam Ivanovich to consider my two speeches, including the one in which I propose that we take a decision today to report to the Supreme Council for his work by the Minister of Defence on this week, I ask that both of you consider my speeches to be a parliamentary address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u15	Please, Mankovetski, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare for Sivullski. Mankovsky's microphone, please turn it on. Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u16	Please pass the word Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u17	Sophia Kirichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Privatization has always been, is and will be a major problem for our society. These problems are being addressed under the laws that we have enacted. But there is a public property that is sold out in secret by non-privatization. This mass alienation also occurs with the property of the Ministry of Defence outside all laws and controls by the State and by society. These trends have been particularly widespread over the past two years and have been directly facilitated by the Minister of Defence. According to my information, various distribution schemes have been developed in the Ministry of Defence. Household combinations, sanatoriums, repair plants move into private hands through fictitious bankruptcy, property write-offs and the like. For example, the Ukroviski Bud construction combination was led to a fictitious bankruptcy. And then 270 bucks a square meter was sold to a private company. In addition, the head of this private enterprise, the wife of the director, allegedly a corrupt enterprise. The Ministry's leadership, with the support of the military prosecutor's office, fully covers the investigation of a successful transaction. On my many petitions, the Attorney General has instituted criminal proceedings, but for today I have reason to say that the case will be closed. Money solves everything. This pattern of theft was also encircled in Balaklav, when an artificial debt had led to the transfer of the repair plant into private hands. Another example. At the direction of the Minister, 80 per cent of the Yaltinski military sanatorium was sold out. The Sanatorium Development Programme was approved by the Ministry of Defence. What is the essence of this program? The point is to sell new treatment units with equipment and equipment, and the money that had been earned had to go to the supposed reconstruction of the broken old shells. It's a wonderful program! The third one. Write down real estate and then sell it for nothing. This is the most beneficial approach for the Ministry of Defence, since the written-off property of military towns serving production is located in greedy pieces of land, and this is the most important of all forest land. I therefore turn to the Attorney-General from this rostrum, first of all, to review compliance with the law as soon as possible when the facilities of the Ministry of Defence are separated. Secondly, I would like to hear the report of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on matters relating to the alienation of State property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Mikola Sivulski. Get ready for Lisa's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, dear voters, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a budget law on the first reading. It's not just the law passed, it's the first reading of the financial constitution of Ukraine. The first reading is the approval of the ideology of the document. What ideology was approved by the coalition majority yesterday? Despite all the words on social protection, the increase in social expenditure, which was based on the need to vote in favour, is now the case. A budget policy audit has taken place, starting in 2005, when financial flows have been channelled for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of society. For 2007, this policy is proposed for review. And it's not just about increasing capital investment costs -- it's 26 billion -- it's a much higher question price. Because the first reading approves a law where only 14.5 of the 95 billion GDP growth is absorbed into the budget is twice as much as it has been approved for the current year. The government is not going to collect taxes. The main losses of the state, the budget, will be due to tax benefits. I'm talking to the Socialists today: you voted for free economic zones to function again, through which the state has borne and will bear enormous losses. You've made a very different public promise. I'm talking to the communists: your proposal and our proposal -- the offer of a BET -- has been rejected, so that, as of 1 January, our proposal and your proposal to raise radically the wages of the High Council Committee on Budget Issues has been rejected. And you voted in favour of that decision of the Budget Committee. As a result of January 1st, every citizen who receives a minimum wage of 400 dollars will receive a 400 minus tax increase of 2 percent and is not guilty here of Terjehochin, who has once proposed a law. The law was passed. Why did you not vote for further transposition of this law? All of this is based on the need, the introduction of an innovation and investment model. Is this a model in time? Is it time to transfer money instead of the population, to redistribute it for the benefit of the great capital? Prices for utilities are rising sharply. It's already been decided three or four times in Kiev. And this avalanche of adventure runs all over Ukraine. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u21	Yes, thank you. Please, Mikola Lissin, faction of the Party of the Regions. After him Borzih. Is there a lisin? I can't see. Please, Alexander Borzich, non-fractional. Get ready for Kirilchuku. Borzih. Is there a fox? Who? Hunger? Please, Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u22	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the issue of land relations in Ukraine today raises increased interest in many services and structures of different levels, as well as in all citizens. It is not an exception to the Committee of the Supreme Council. Probably because of this land-relationship regulation within the area of the barrier this year has already reached the famous Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. The Ecology Committee is now seeking to acquire the right to regulate land relations in terms of water and nature conservation funds, and this is not the last desire to “straw a stranger’s blanket”, foreign questions to itself. At the same time, no one can count on the fact that Ukraine has a single land legislation, as it regulates the entire range of land relations, and does not depend on the nature and functioning of land use. The violation of this law would prevent the State from pursuing a single policy and would result in extremely negative consequences for the management and control of the use and protection of all forms of property. So I am addressing from this high rostrum myself to the Head of the Supreme Council Alexander Alexander Moroz, all committees and factions, every deputy with a request: let's not "trawl the rope" any more with regard to the knowledge of committees, based on the wishes of individual people and structures. When dealing with land issues, we ask that we listen to and consider the findings of the experts of the Professional Committee and the Committee of State. And the second. Equally important today is the financing of budget programmes to support the agricultural producer in accordance with the 2006 Budget Act. To date, only a third of the expenses have been funded. the volume of production support. The debt owed to agricultural producers by subsidies for livestock and poultry already amounts to 230 million. That's right. There is a threat that “under the knife ” can go a small, weighty young man, and even worse, a uterine head. So, Reverend Mikolo Janovich, do you not realize that today a peasant should not only finish harvesting but also prepare for the coming year. I urge that urgent measures be taken to pay off this debt and that full funding be provided by the end of the year, as foreseen in the 2006 State Budget. Otherwise, dear friends, in 2007 we're going to have to fund a foreign producer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Yes, Alexander Borzich, I can't see. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk. Turn on the microphone, please. A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u24	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u25	Alexander Turchinov, followed by Mitroshkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, you know, journalists and all who observe the debate of the Supreme Council, which is actually taking place every day during plenary sessions, can conclude that all the proposals that the opposition makes, particularly our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, our political opponents are only responding to one thing: dirt and lies. Our argument, our answer, is dirt and lies. In particular, yesterday we were all witnesses when Julia Volodymyrny Timoshenko spoke out loud, smashing, pardoning, for this word, the budget introduced by the government and the anti-crisis so-called coalition, right on the ceiling. At the same time, none of the arguments she called, none of the anti-crisis coalitions, nor the government, were able to disprove. Instead, we've got lies and dirty speeches that don't just know, demean politics, they demean the dignity of a man at all. And you know, this face today that we're being shown and during the first performances of today's plenary session also tells us that there's no argument other than lies and dirt. We were promised that tariffs would be reduced, and the same party of regions that made the roller coasters very bright during the election campaign is a lie. We were promised no more than $95, sorry, it's a lie. We have been promised that the people of Ukraine will live better today, sorry, this is a lie. And today another witness to such a technological process of opposition as the young deputy of Kiselov, also a lie. Dear Mr. Kiselov, I can inform you that you can find out in the Regulatory Committee where you work that the author of the housing laws in the constant use of the National Deputies are representatives of your Komar and Korsakov faction. It's very easy to verify and, I'm sorry, those lies, including my address, well, they're just unfounded. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to address you. We talk a lot about benefits, let's talk less. I don't want to insult anyone from the anti-crisis majority or the opposition. Everyone today is actually using these things, which are provided for in the People’s Deputies Act. And that's why I would ask all of you to stop blaming each other on this matter and just take the courage to vote on the law that our faction has passed -- the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. And no discussion, no charges, no excuses, lying statements just cancel these benefits and put a dot and we'll all be on equal terms with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u27	I would ask you to be very careful about the speeches of our colleagues, MPs and Alexander Valentinovich, calling for correctness, I was absolutely right that he was actually doing the wrong thing himself. I would ask him to listen to himself, too, because we don't have the so-called coalition, we have the coalition according to the Constitution, and all the other statements, that's what the deputy says on his conscience, and he says what he wants. I'm not taking your time. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please. However, this is part of my responsibilities. All right. Yes. And now I would ask Jacob’s word to Nicholas. Mikola? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u28	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Dear compatriots! On November 1st, the next anniversary of the November break-up, the establishment of Ukrainian power in the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, which united Ukrainian ethnic lands of Galicina, Bukovina and Zacarpata at the time of World War I, was part of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire of Habsburg. This was preceded by such events. First, in September 1918, a military committee was set up in Lviv and announced preparations for the armed uprising. The Ukrainian National Council was created on October 18-19 in the assembly of all Ukrainian deputies, and this was the case with representatives of the Ukrainian MPs in the imperial Vienna Parliament, in the land parliaments of Bukovina and Galicina, and with the participation of representatives of all political parties and clergy. On October 19th, the creation of the West Ukrainian People's Republic was announced and Eugene Petrusevic was elected president. On October 30, an ultimatum was set up for the governor of Habsburg. The following day it was decided to take over power by means of a military uprising. At 4 p.m. on November 1st, such a rebellion began, and with the strength of only 60 rulers and one and a half thousand archers in the city, the authorities moved to the Ukrainians, and a blue and yellow flag struck over the Town Hall in Lviv that day. At seven o'clock in the morning, centurion Dmitry Vitowski compiled a report on the establishment of the authority of the West Ukrainian People's Republic in the borders of three Ukrainian ethnic lands. Now, thanks to fate and the Lord God, we remember these glorious monuments in those ethnic, historical borders of Ukraine. While welcoming the festival, I once again call out: Glory to Ukraine, glory to heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u29	Teryokhin’s deputy has the word for replication. Out of the way, please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a young and not-so-experimental deputy of Kiselov who used my name in the context of something. So here I remind you, Mr. Kiselov, that the author of 15 percent of the personal income tax is Mr. Mikola Janovich Azarov's main financial genius. Please take a look at the transcripts of the Supreme Council and how this law was applied. That's the first one. It's different. This decision was taken by the government of Yanukovich number one time. After the meeting of representatives, regional representatives, who said that the effective tax rate was 16.4, so let's put in 15. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u31	Thank you. I think everyone understands what's going on. Let's not have an altercation. You mentioned him, he's entitled to a replica. We are discussing the resignation of some members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I invite you to Victor Tikhov's rostrum, head of the profile committee. And before that, I would like him to listen, and the deputies would listen. You know, a few members of the Cabinet of Ministers have filed for their resignation. In accordance with the Rules, these claims have been registered. One minister wrote an application to withdraw his application, and four remained. A public - building committee discussed these claims yesterday. I asked the Prime Minister a question today. He has the opportunity to resolve the issue if the result is appropriate and the resignation of the cabinet members. He said he'd be ready to apply immediately for two ministries. For others, it will be different, since he needs to consult other officials and ministers who have written statements and so on. Thus, since two ministries have been identified, two candidatures, I would like to ask Viktor Mikolaiovich, you will report precisely to the two ministers, namely, the minister of justice and the minister of culture. I repeat, Victor Mikhailovich. As to the decision that your committee has taken on these candidates. So the Minister of Justice's statement. Please report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, national deputies! At a meeting of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, held on October 31, 2006, the issue of individual statements made by individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding their resignation from positions was considered. In particular, as you said, the four ministers: the Welder, the Pole, the Pavlovka, and the Lichov. He should also report that the minister's statements were dated October 11, 2006, and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had registered on October 19, 2006. I would also like to reply to those who were able to claim that the committee was pedalizing the application, and that the application rules should have been reviewed within 10 days, so there was an extraordinary meeting. At the meeting of the committee there were 13 national deputies of Ukraine, members of the committees, of 20 from its general composition, that is, the meeting was legitimate. The ministers Zvaric, Polachenko, and Pavlenko took part directly in the meeting. As a result of the consideration of the question of the four members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, Polachenko Jurija Volodymyrovich, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, Lichova Jurija Dmitrović, was given the same decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that they accept their resignation from positions according to their personal claims. Next question. Yes, I also wanted to say that the committee had reached a decision by a health committee and a decision by a health committee that had decided not to give consent to the release of Polanko from the post of Minister of Health. Next question about the statements made by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich. I would like to highlight the statement, because the committee received two applications, one for resignation and the other, which were registered on one day on October 19th. [[11.10]] [[19.10]] The committee stopped in detail to consider the Minister's statements by discussing the said statements in substance. The committee drew particular attention to the formulation of the first one, quote: “The inability to establish constructive cooperation for the effective work of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine”, which in fact stated the minister’s inability to organize the ministry’s work. In fact, all the committee members present, representatives of all factions, gave a negative assessment of the activities of Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the issue of the release of Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich from office of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. In addition, the committee also asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider the release of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine. This is due to the fact that only the Prime Minister of Ukraine, under the coalition, can apply for discharge from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. And the coalition is in this room and will show its will by voting. Thus, with regard to the Minister of Internal Affairs, it is proposed to initiate other procedures for the dismissal of a member of the Cabinet Committee of Ministers of Ukraine, provided for in article 85, part one, of the Constitution, and article 202, paragraph six, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I ask the chairman to put to the vote the questions he said.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u33	Please, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes? But please carefully ask the question. Bondarchuk. Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, to my conviction that the committee had biasedly considered the question of Minister Lucenk. The point is, there was a statement by Lucenka and there was a statement of withdrawal. I mean, you didn't have any papers to look into that question. And in fact, what the committee was looking at: a statement is missing, because it's been revoked, some other documents that would have been submitted to the committee, and what would it be like for you to look at them and make such a conclusion to the committee, and you didn't have one? So this is where you see the pure oppression of the situation. I don't have any claim to the previous four statements you've been considering, but in this case, in my opinion, there's clearly an invalidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u35	The committee has 20 members of the Supreme Council, 13 of them present, who have exercised their right to express what they have said. And they took advantage of their right to vote on what they had the right to vote. I named all the articles of the Constitution and all the articles of the Rules that made the decision. And this is your right to evaluate the decisions of the 13 deputies who voted in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u36	Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u37	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Well, first of all. The statements are written on political grounds, and for the professional work of all the appointed ministers, I think we should thank you, and from this we should start a report, they worked very well, and this is an example for their possible successors. Second, the resignation of the opposition does not take place, the decision to resign the power, so of course the position to vote on the issue has no bearing. And thirdly, I think it would be very appropriate to ask a question to my previous colleague, when, in fact, you know, what we heard in the morning information, it reminded me very much of the great combine that combines something, something that brings a shadow on the cloth. You don't have to combine the cancellation application, you can't put it in the session room. Moreover, as we have already learned, there were no professional claims against ministers. So don't you think that the consideration of this issue prepared by your committee is absolutely, well, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u39	We thanked on behalf of the committee all four ministers who were, three out of four, and wished them fruitful work in the future. The minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not at the meeting. And once again, all the deputies are equal, the ones that two or three times were like you here, the deputy, and those who were came for the first time. They have the right to express themselves. And they expressed it because of the committee's decision, which was voted by all the 13 deputies who were there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u40	Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u41	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u42	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I have a question for both the rapporteur and the head of the Supreme Council. Well, Lucenka's statement was made, and it says he made a deal with Moroz and Yanukovic. Therefore, I understand that the “Regions” will not vote in favour of this resignation, this is how they will talk. And as for the other ministers that you and Lucenko want to leave behind, what political power, I want to ask you, will they represent? I'll remind you that the coalition is formed by political parties that have factions in Parliament and no one else. And I want to hear specifically: what political power will they represent in a coalition today called “Anticrisis”? San Sanic, I ask your attention, I did not say "so-called, anti-crisis," yes, anti-crisis. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u44	Absolutely convincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u45	Well, I get it. Is this about Alexander Alexandrovich or me?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u46	Well, I'll answer him if it's like that. With regard to the candidate, Yuri Lucenko, who has already spoken here, it seems to me that the procedure may be, indeed, the one provided for in the Rules. We've got a Temporary Commission, and it's going to consider work. Now, just a minute. She'll look at the work, he'll come around. And then the session can be decided whether Parliament can express trust or distrust. I think he can work professionally, and there's no problem. Today we do not consider this question. He simply reported that the committee was determined on this matter. But this question will not be considered today, for there is no reason. I'm getting out of this. And with regard to leaving or not leaving it in the Cabinet of Ministers, which will be represented by political power, this is already the question for the Cabinet of Ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Although I repeat, this is a procedure that does not arise, let's say, a gap in time relative to responsibilities, this question can be considered in a literal way tomorrow. Please take your seats. One moment, out of the procedure. Sign up for the procedure. Please take a seat, Victor Mikolaiovich, in place. Five minutes for the procedure, and I think it's quite right to ask the question because we're looking at this kind of question for the first time. Please, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexander! I would really like to speak out on the matter of procedure, and even though we are considering this for the first time, we need to address these issues politically and professionally. And don't think of it as a debate over ministers, especially Minister Lucenko. I received an answer from the minister today. A fine legal response to the necessary changes to the Civil Code or not needed, as evidenced by the minister’s high professional training in this complex matter. Therefore, I would strongly deny today’s consideration of the question of the resignation of the minister, and it should be taken into account what the colleague of Baranowski said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Jacob, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u50	Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u51	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'd like to address you. We are indeed conducting this procedure for the first time today, and this precedent should be regular. Based on your information, it may be concluded that this question is not prepared. I'd like to ask you, where is the Prime Minister? Obviously for the Prime Minister, this is not a secondary issue. More is involved today in four plus five ministers. The other one. Where are the ministers themselves? Why are they not invited to the meetings, and why can we not be able to hear the ministers themselves? As obviously the committee's decision is not enough. Why do we not have the opportunity to thank them because they are really professional people who have written a statement for political reasons? And that's also worth talking about. Thus, the question is not prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u52	I answer your question in this way. Ministers. I'm asking you a specific question. I'll go on for a while. Ministers were invited. The Prime Minister is holding a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. The question is prepared in the sense, as set out in the Rules, and you are asked all the questions. He can come, he can't come, it's his right. Please. Please. Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow MPs. I will continue the subject that was initiated by Deputy Matvienko. In principle, the legal nature, the legal-political nature of the resignation of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and European practice really presuppose another procedure of consideration. If there is a minister’s declaration of resignation, he should put it himself in the session room so that there is no interpreter through the committee. The other one. The question of how a resignation is accepted. Think of Soviet times. When the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union decided to appoint a vacancy, they were relieved of their position in response to their own will. And that's logical, because the fact that the resignation application is already beginning is the fact that the legal-policy powers are being terminated. It's a wish. And so to decide whether to send or not to send is in Parliament because of a resolution of mistrust, not because of acceptance or rejection. It's complicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u54	Please, Zhijenov. And then I'll also think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u55	I ask you to pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u57	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Alexander Alexander, first of all, I demand that this issue be considered in the presence of the Prime Minister, all the vice-premiers and ministers we intend to release today. Actually, it's not us. It's the Anti-Crist Coalition. If there's a cabinet meeting going on right now, it's an extreme display of disrespect for all the deputies, to consider this question when the cabinet members that we're releasing are now in another session. So we have to move. This is the first time. Secondly, professional committees, such as health care, such as young people, such as national security and others, such as state-owned construction and others relating to the law-enforcement sphere, should also consider these issues, because when professional issues were considered, they were all in the position of these ministers and celebrated their professionalism. At least these two points need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u58	We took the time to discuss the procedure, but I too have the right to express my thoughts. First of all, I think it's very interesting, a useful opinion by Sergey the Chief, that we have to first decide on the question of assignment in substitution. That's a good suggestion, I think, even though it's not prescribed in the Rules in any way. With regard to the participation of ministers. We asked them to come to the meeting. I ask you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, don't scream from place, I hear well and so, I just have the right to think and bring information to you, maybe you'll change your position then. Therefore, I think we can actually consider this, because this issue is not settled definitively in the Rules. We can accept the resignation, or we can wait for the Prime Minister to be appointed and considered at the same time. But here comes another colossal, the submission makes the Prime Minister a vacancy, if there is, and the vacancy is not yet, what about here, Sergey Petrovich? Please, let's talk about this question and procedure, and essentially, let's give it 10 minutes of time. And then we're going to make a decision in line with this discussion, because we're actually in a delicate situation right now, because the Rules literally don't spell out this procedure. I think it was supposed to be a rule of law for the Cabinet of Ministers that we haven't adopted yet. In such a case, then, it is evidently a section of the Rules that applies to appointments and that we should refer to them. So please write down, let's talk about this for 10 minutes, and then let's talk about how we're going to make this decision. Please sign up. Five men signed up, let's go. Then it's exactly 15 minutes from the factions. Excuse me, who? Then from the factions, who's in there? From where? Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Today, a faction of socialists discussed the issue that was put into the agenda, the release of ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers who applied. And of course, the procedure may be different, but I think we want to sink the issue in the procedure. Yes, these are political resignations, but does this mean that we should definitely discuss a matter that has already been discussed by the political power that has delegated them to the Cabinet of Ministers. What should we be discussing here? Because the question is, why do people leave the government and I don't think if we discuss this issue, whether in their presence or without their presence, it's going to change the essence of the decision that we have to make today. Of course, I'd like the Prime Minister to be here, and there's a lot of other things I'd like. But once again, it doesn't change the nature of the matter. So our proposal is, actually, to vote on those draft regulations that we have and not to divorce around this, let's say, a discussion that will not actually give anything: in the legal or in the political sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u60	Thank you. Matthewnko gives the word to the Immortal Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u61	Dear Alexander Alexander, respected colleagues, it is clear that the question of the implementation of the new constitutional model requires a well - thought - out procedure. If we look at how the coalitions were formed today in the history of Ukraine and how the question of the resignation of ministers is now being addressed, the answer is one. We have not yet completed the process of either forming a coalition or forming a government, nor, more yet, resigning ministers on a political basis. And democracy, dear colleagues, is first of all a procedure. Only the implementation of the rules of procedure guarantees the implementation of democratic principles. If we're talking about this part, first of all, we need to agree on this procedure between the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- first of all, in the coalition, and then between the coalition and the opposition. And here we need to support those national MPs who also talk about the need to invite ministers here, and the presence of the Prime Minister, and the presence of the entire Cabinet of Ministers, and the need for a vote of resignation. Because the vacancy has arisen since the filing of the resignation application. And only Lucenka's candidature as Minister of Internal Affairs requires consideration because there are two applications. And that's the basis for the Supreme Council to consider these issues. Therefore, under such conditions, "Our Ukraine" proposes that the Conciliation Council provide a procedure or a separate decision, if it is a wish or an agreement between factions, only then resolve the matter. The resignation is accepted by the authorities, the opposition to the resignation procedure does not take part. As far as our ministers are concerned, we thank them for the high professionalism they have shown on the spot, working as ministers. We thank them for their courageous action, which they have shown in government, without pursuing any useful goals of their own, by fulfilling their function, they have done the political will -- the faction's decision to move into opposition, and for this they have a great deal of gratitude and acquittal on behalf of our members of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". They can't stay in government because the faction "Our Ukraine" is not part of the anti-crisis coalition. Political differences should then be ensured through the resignation of ministers from our Ukraine, who work within the government. That's why we're proposing. The first is for the Conciliation Council to agree on procedures and for the Prime Minister and the entire composition of the government to be present. The other one. This is again thanks to our ministers for the courageous act they have made. This is the first political retreat in Ukraine’s history. I wish all of us wisdom in making these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u62	Tomenko from “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I wanted to be correct here in this not a simple discussion, because this is about opposition. So historically, we, as an opposition faction, did not “hold a candle” when this “political marriage” was being created here. We do not want to carry our alcohol to some representatives of the political forces who have decided to get out of this “marriage”. Therefore, the opposition will not vote in favour of the resignation of specific ministers, since we did not form this government. We are happy to vote in favour of resigning the entire government if such a story happens. The second question. I would like us to return to the problem of forming a coalition. I've heard then both former prime ministers and other living classics that Ukraine has finally united and this coalition will operate for four or five years. I would like to hear about the responsibility of these votes, because “Our Ukraine” also gave 34 votes for the government and 30 for Viktor Yanukovic, and today the situation seems so strange that Viktor Fedorovich says: “We have advised there: two can be sent and two should be left behind.” So who do these ministers answer to? Before the political power that delegated them? For example, two of us will be sent now, and those two now answer to whom? Before Janukovic or before “Our Ukraine”? A separate thesis with the minister of the interior, he is also an official of Parliament. Obviously, either we're looking at everything, or we're not looking at anything. I think today we should not make mistakes on this important issue. If for the first time a coalition has been formed in Ukraine, then it is obvious that we need to talk again about the government's overall activities, the activities of the anti-crisis coalition and the Ukraine's appendix, which signed a document with them. Otherwise, in Parliament, we are hostages of some sort of misunderstanding: someone is making a deal, someone is not making a deal. Therefore, once again, we do not vote if the Supreme Council decides to vote in favour of resignation. But we wouldn't want Parliament to be broad for some kind of culinary arrangement. We would like it to be the collective responsibility of the government, we want it to be the personal responsibility of the ministers, and we want it to be the party responsibility of these subjects who have delegated these ministers. There can be no situation for one of the ministers to run to the Prime Minister and make a deal, and one of the ministers does not agree. Finally, this Parliament should lay down the principles of civilized coalition formation, civilized government formation and civilised responsibility, both for government and for specific ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u64	I ask all those who speak to us to treat the people who have made statements properly, because no one has run anywhere, no one has agreed to anything. And from the beginning, I actually said, in terms of what Sergei the Great said. Since there are two candidates for the Prime Minister's proposals, such a proposal was made not because someone was running to negotiate, but because of the procedure. So please do not offend those who do not have anything to do with this. And I join those words that are already being said, I have to respect this position and the qualifications of the relevant people who are today members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Matthew, Simonenko Peter, has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u65	Respectable colleagues and respected radio audiences, televised people! I would like to present our faction's position on the issue under discussion, and from the outset, I declare that the faction requires the full resignation of all those who have submitted the statements. Secondly, decide to hear the Minister of the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Defence as to how they fulfil the conditions under which the Anti-Crist Coalition was established. Whether they are working to implement the programme supported by the majority of voters and by a coalition in Parliament, or whether they are on a non-binding political content. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these statements have been made for two weeks. Two weeks of these ministers, in fact, only deal with what they are doing on television, how they are beautiful and how they have applied, and ask to be released with peace. Let's do what we have to talk about. They themselves state that they claim that they are retiring and that there may be other conversations. Today, we are faced with a problem, respected colleagues, by an anti-crisis coalition that is completely different. The Cabinet of Ministers, which today must address the difficult problems of the legacy of the orange team of destruction and destruction, which we today must naturally warn and protect the people of Ukraine, is in a state of dispersion and Satania, some ministers are coming to the meeting, some ministers are not coming to the meeting, some of them are talking on television about how they see the development of Ukraine, their own position of expression, without defending the interests that are determined by the laws or decisions of the Supreme Council. It is therefore already the case in this situation that political and factual sabotage has begun in the organization of the work of the executive branch, and the local level is ending by the fact that heat and other life-sustainment systems are not in fact included today, and this leads to mass indignation. I ask the honour of my colleagues, in this case, that your local authorities and heads of administration have been elected on the ground, your oranges have been appointed on the ground, and today they are sabotaged in the direction of the executive branch. What kind of proposals. The Coalition has assumed responsibility and is entitled to accept resignation today, as we voted in the Supreme Council for appointment. A question should be put to the vote and the problem removed. We're done hiring the President's relatives, that's enough! And there's not enough room for all of us in the government! And professionalism. For two years, this team could not have done anything; these same ministers are now in the anti-crisis government. Therefore, I believe that a decision must be taken and all those who are involved in the so-called job should be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u66	Jaroslav Suhi has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I think maybe someone didn't listen to the words that were in this room in Mikola Tomenko's speech, and he said about the real threat that exists now to the Ukrainian state. This is about Ukraine being in the so-called transit period of transition from one form of government to another, from the Presidential Parliamentary to the Presidential. If you and I, as responsible politicians, allow us to delay, if we go into political failures, which to this day are so social and have not explained what they want from us all, from this session hall, from society, from the government that you want?Oh, my God! But get rid of each other in the end! How many years have you been jerking us around here?Oh, my God! Three months before the coalition election, three months after the election! On that day, the situation was not clear! I think that in this case we should do the responsible thing. Dear colleagues, the coalition, call us whatever you want, like, don't like it -- it was made in accordance with the Constitution. No one has forbidden or denied any judgment! We have taken responsibility, now we cannot allow ourselves to be held hostage by someone’s thoughts, reasonings, metathanisms of the mind, Satania, the pains of such power. Give me the briefcase, go on! What's wrong with someone's head?Oh, my God! Have you forgotten whose political will these four people have made a statement? But you made them, and now you're not letting them go. Either open the door or close it. They can get mutilated. I'm sorry, over here. This way. I don't know what they took us 10 minutes to do. I quote article 202 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u68	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u69	“Retirement, discharge or permanent suspension of the powers of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers shall take place from the date of adoption by the Supreme Council of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council.” What's so incomprehensible now? The other one. Article 201, and the question of appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers is also regulated by article 201, paragraph one, “in accordance with the proposals made by the Coalition”. What's the problem?Oh, my God! Today we solve problems with these people, give them freedom, let them breathe freely wherever they want, let them work until it is too late. Because you and I are already violating KZOT, this is not the case with the Ukrainian Parliament. And then we'll see what we're going to do here. Whoever wants to go, let him go, happy path.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u70	I'm asking you, we're not going to hold a Conciliation Council on this, because the factions of all factions have been exchanged, and actually the factions are making proposals, and they have to be taken into account. So, I'm asking for your attention, calm down. There is a political fact. People of political power wrote a statement that motivated this, indeed, by political reasons. A legal fact comes after a decision is taken by the Supreme Council, not after a statement has been made. Because a person works in the Cabinet of Ministers, even if the entire Cabinet of Ministers is suspended, they remain in office. This is what the Constitution predicts. So I propose this procedure as a result of the discussion. First. At 1:30 a.m., we officially invite the Prime Minister and the ministers for whom fate is decided here to the session room. And if the Prime Minister is running for office, we're assigning them out of office. The Supreme Council will decide on this matter. Not the majority, not the opposition, but the Supreme Council, as stated in the Rules. I'm asking you to support this proposal here. I beg you, you have spoken. On this basis, I ask you to support what I offer you. At 1: 30 p.m., we will make the appropriate decision, assignment, and release. Once again, vote on this proposal. I'm asking you to agree to this procedure. Move the solution to 1:30 p.m. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:13:45]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Please, by factions, who wants to know. Region Party – 87, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 2, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 31, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 3. Would you like to consult? Ask for advice, please. Since this question is not being considered, and there is no solution here, before we can figure it out, we're going to go back to that question again. Ask for a break for half an hour, two factions: the Communists and the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I don't know, there's probably no answer in the Rules to what I'm supposed to say right now, whether to continue the break or declare a break. But I'm sure it's probably more like twelve o'clock, so I'm going to call it 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I would like to explain, first of all, to television and radio. The question that arose for the first time in the Supreme Council is that we don't have these procedures, but we all agree that when we consider this issue, we need the Prime Minister and other figures that are involved. There's a meeting of the Cabinet now, and the Prime Minister may be at our meeting in an hour, at 1:30 a.m. Therefore, I would like to conclude this consideration when the Prime Minister is in office and to vote on the postponement of the debate by 13.30. It's a procedure. I ask you to vote for this proposal. Who's to vote for this proposal? [[12:40:31]] For 248 Decision taken. The issue is being addressed: information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly. Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, head of the permanent delegation, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. On October 14 and 15, 2006, the third meeting of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly took place in Chisinau, Republic of Moldova. The delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Head of Delegation, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputies: Koval, Head of the Permanent Delegation, Malinowski, Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation, Members of the Permanent Delegation of Matthew, Horbatyuk, Kaltsev, Zabzeluk. The National Deputies were accompanied by the first deputy director of the Directorate for Inter-Parliamentary Relations of the Supreme Council of Tretiak, deputy director of the Department of Caladin, senior consultant of the designated administration of Chumak, chief consultant of the Press Service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Timchenko. Parliamentary delegations from Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, headed by Milly Majlis of the Azerbaijani Republic of Assadov, the head of the Parliament of Georgia, Burjanadze, and the head of the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, respectively, also participated in the parliamentary assembly. As guests at the Parliamentary Assembly, the first deputy head of the Republic of Lithuania, the deputy head of the Senate of Romania, Milishkan, was present, and representatives of the diplomatic corps were accredited in the Republic of Moldova. In accordance with the law of procedure of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, an extended Bureau meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, a plenary meeting of the Assembly and a meeting of the committees of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly were held. At an extended meeting of the Assembly Bureau, the parties approved the agenda for the day's action, approved the authorization of the members of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Assembly and their distribution by the committees of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the decision to hold the next fourth meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly in Baku, Azerbaijan, in 2007, will often be further determined. The main themes of the agenda were: the prospects for developing cooperation between the GUAM countries following the establishment of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development; the consolidation of the efforts of the GUAM States and the international community to resolve the frozen conflicts that exist in the GUAM countries; the development of inter-parliamentary cooperation for the further legislative provision of the joint countries; and the participation of the organization. During the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly, statements were made by the heads of parliamentary delegations and representatives of the diplomatic corps accredited in the Republic of Moldova. In accordance with the agenda, there have been meetings of committees on political and legal issues, trade and economic issues, science, culture and education. At a meeting of the Committee on Political and Legal Affairs, the head of the Committee was elected Head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Assembly, Koval. The decision was also made to hold the next meeting of the committee in March 2007 in Kiev. The theme of the report is whether the theme of the meeting is, more faithfully, a system of peaceful conflict resolution that exists in the territories of the countries, the members of the GUAM, and the fight against aggressive separatism. As a result of the committee meetings, appropriate resolutions were adopted. The head of the Ukrainian delegation, Adam Martinyuk, met bilaterally with the head of the Romanian-Miliscan Senate, with the head of the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova-Lup, also held a meeting of the Ukrainian delegation with the Minister for Reintegration of the Republic of Moldova-Shoyu, during which the latter informed the Ukrainian national deputies about the Moldovan position on the issue of the Transnistrian settlement. In addition, an informal meeting of heads of delegation took place with the President of the Republic of Moldova, Voronini, during which the results of Moldova's chairmanship of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly were discussed and the prospects for the development of multifaceted cooperation in the GUAM space following the establishment of the organization: “For Democracy and Economic Development GUAM”. At the end of the summit, a corresponding communiqué was adopted and a press conference of delegation heads was held, during which the head of the Republic of Moldova, the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, said that. The peacekeeping format in the Transnistrian conflict zone needs to be changed because it is outdated. Today's situation is very different from the early 1990s, Moldova is open to dialogue. The head of the Ukrainian delegation, Martinyuk, stressed that the actions of GUAM parliamentarians should be a good complement to the efforts of governments to resolve conflicts peacefully in GUAM space. I've got everything, Alexander Alexandrovich. I'm familiar with it. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u74	Let us take note of this information. If someone's not clear, you can ask questions. That's what we used to do. But I think he had some pretty solid information. Yeah? Let us take note of this information. Thank you. The draft Law is being considered on information and analysis in the area of social protection. National Deputy Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Please, he'll report from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Suškević, BUT faction. At the request of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, supported by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, the request to transfer the bill to the next plenary week to reconcile positions in the government. I support this request, this proposal, because the bill is extremely important for the calculation and support of the socially vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u76	And what's the Ministry's argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u77	The Ministry's argument. There are representatives of the ministry here, but, as far as I know, there are options today to reconcile the positions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and other ministries on this issue. The point is that the system provides for an integrated version of the system where other information systems will be integrated. So there are options for some reconciliation of positions. Committees, by the way, support profilers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u78	A representative of the Ministry, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! During the drafting of the bill, indeed, an agreement was reached with the authors of the legislative initiative to reconcile all positions in order to ensure that the provisions of this law are implemented. Today, there is a need for a final reconciliation of these positions, and we would like to support the proposal that was made to move this issue to the next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u79	What kind of reasoning will the deputies have? Ivan Bondarczuk, head of the committee, please. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u80	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. We have learned of such a request today. But after hearing the argument that the drafter and representatives of the ministry have interrupted, we support the proposal to move the matter to the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u81	Peter Cibenko. What does their committee think? What does the committee head think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Indeed, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Indeed, our committee stands second in the list of committees for which this bill is a subject of knowledge. The committee supported the project. And I know that this bill is supported by colleagues. Indeed, a matter is needed. Because we need to create an information base, and everybody's interested in it. But just the disagreement between the different offices of the Cabinet of Ministers can cause us to lose a reasonable normal idea. I mean, I'm proposing, I'm joining the proposal to postpone the deadline for this document in order to accept it, because it deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u83	Mikhail Vasilovich, have you considered the question, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u84	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Indeed, the bill is very important, and it is needed, and it needs to be accepted. But there are also individual questions among the national deputies. A separate explanation is needed so that the bill is said not to be burned. I support the bill's proposal to reconsider this bill, to postpone the bill for a week. And in a week, we'll accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u85	Kirilenko. No, there isn't. Then I put to the vote a motion for a transfer for a week, for the next sessional week of this bill. Please. [[12:51:09]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is under consideration. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Hubsky. Please. A Turk? I don't understand. Wait. I'm waiting for the reporter. Where? The Turks, please. Is the Head of the Yavorowski Subcommittee? The Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u86	Alexander Aleksandrovich, you were approached by Hubsky. In connection with his illness, he asked for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u87	He didn't come near me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u88	Yeah? Well, he asked me to pass it on. So he approached Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u89	The head of the Committee on Cultural Affairs is here? I know that. Here are the findings of the committee. Then I put to the vote the motion to move the matter to the next one, where Hubsky is speaking, for the next sessional week. Please determine how to vote. Mikhail Vasilovich, there's no other way to look at it. We have to vote in favour. [[12:52:46]] For 158. I cannot ask this question because there is no report because of his illness. So I ask you to move this issue to the next plenary week. Even given that there are negative conclusions from the committee, they must go through a procedure that is appropriate so that the Supreme Council does not accept it if it so determines. I ask you again to vote on the transfer for the next plenary week. Here comes the vote. Please. Both questions. [[12:53:36]] For 350. Decision taken. Thank you. We're going to need to look at a few drafts of the law, you're going to have them in order of the day, they're two projects. This is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the payment of taxes on the purchase of cars]] And the following draft law amending some legislation on the establishment of educational institutions by religious organizations. I'm requesting a procedure to support a reduced procedure. I'm putting to the vote the very question of considering these bills in a reduced procedure, going to the vote. [[12:54:44]] For 322 Roger that. Thus, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[on the payment of taxes on the purchase of cars]] Mikola Olegovich Kovzel, National Deputy, reports on this question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! I propose to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the payment of added-value taxes for the purchase of light-duty cars]] Today, there is an inadequacy in the issue of taxes on the added value paid for the purchase of light cars between the laws of Ukraine on value added tax and on corporate income taxation. Yes, the Law on VAT provides for VAT paid for the purchase of light cars to be made up of gross expenses, and the Law on Taxation of Business Income does not provide for this at all. The removal of the existing tax co-operation is the purpose of the bill. The project is envisaged instead of increasing the gross cost of VAT paid for the purchase of light cars to increase their cost. This rule will allow the taxpayer to depreciate the costs incurred. With regard to the means of transport that will be used to transport passengers, the value added tax paid on their purchase is offered to refer to the composition of the tax credit. The adoption of the bill does not require additional financial costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The bill also provided for the settlement of the issue, the assignment of VAT in the event of the export of an expert of goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine by bartering, goods-exchange transactions in the Ukrainian Business Taxation Act. Taking into account that the settlement of this issue is provided in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 Article 7, it is, in agreement with the Financial and Banking Committee, to withdraw from this bill. With all due respect to the foregoing, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u91	Please enable five minutes of reporting, not two minutes. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u92	In view of all the foregoing, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill and to adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u93	For a question, is there a reporter? Please sign up for questions. You've given the committee a proposal by order, and here it is, and I'm in charge of it. Please, Matthew's question, after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u94	Matvienkov, a socialist faction. Dear rapporteur, please tell me this is your approach, to be honest, I am also impressed with the understanding system. So you want all car purchases to be based on gross costs, and that went through the depreciation system. I understand this system, it impresses and it's clear and transparent. The question of the second bill, which is an alternative to your bill, how could we possibly have them read a second reading, so to speak, unify them, and your position, the opinion on the second bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u95	I don't want to talk about the second bill. As far as I know, he's off the hook and there's only one left.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u96	Unichuku, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u97	Dear reporter! The idea of the bill is a reflection of the interests of economic operators, such as entrepreneurs, those who manufacture light cars. And it's worth supporting, and the faction has that intention. Two questions. Do you want to tell the project that it will be entered into operation from the day it was published? However, we are now in the budgetary process, and would it not be better if we approved it today in the first reading? In the second reading, to predict that it would take effect on 1 January of the following year would be in line with the requirements of the Constitution and the budgetary process as such?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u98	I think the sooner we relieve the pressure and all the non-hazard that exists today, the better it will be for our businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u99	I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u100	And we'll see how the second reading goes, maybe we'll get out on January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u101	You're answering the MP's question. Does he say whether it is January 1st or immediately after publication as provided in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u102	I want to leave as it is in the bill -- since the signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u103	Right, please, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u104	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of the Regions. Mikola Olegovich! Tell me, this is logic, I want to understand, the bill, the colleagues here have already explained the issues, the novels are understandable. But whose interests will be the implementation of this bill, or the interests of manufacturers, such as domestic automobile manufacturers? Are carriers, that is, those companies, going to be able to buy light cars, including cars, that can be used for passenger transport? Will the complex serve to promote the development of businesses and producers and consumers of their products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u105	I think it will contribute to the complex, both to manufacturers and to consumers of cars. And the main thing is to remove the colossal conflict that has arisen when VAT is being paid for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u106	Thank you. Widow, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u107	I continue with the question that Jaroslav Suhi raised. I was on AutoZAZA last Friday -- this is a fantastic enterprise whose competitiveness goes with the biggest car manufacturers. Tax payers of 200 million A year’s worth of money and this factory has already paid off a billion dollars in the government budget in ten months. How your bill can, will it contribute to the economic growth of factories such as the Autobase, or will it adversely affect their economic activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u108	I think this bill is going to help buy new cars because the existing conflict, I'm going to try to explain in a nutshell, when I buy a car in the law that exists today, VAT can't be reimbursed and can't be applied to depreciation costs. That is, the law does not regulate this issue today. In fact, all businesses suffered losses on this amount that had to be covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u109	Thank you, sit down, please. Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please, as Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee at its meeting has considered two draft laws of Ukraine, 2011, 2011-1, recommending the adoption of the 2011 Bill as a basis, and those contained in the 2011-1 Bill, which I have submitted, have been taken into account in the drafting of the second reading bill. Once again, on the basis of the questions that have already been asked here before, I would like to point out that this bill does not apply in any way to importers or manufacturers of light cars. This bill is complex in deciding what to do if, in accordance with the VAT law, VAT is not included in tax credit but is included in gross expenditure, or is included in a separate core fund of individual groups and core funds. There really is a conflict today, because in accordance with the VAT Act, all the indirect taxes paid in the purchase of a car can be included in the gross cost of producing circulation, a business, a buyer. However, the State Tax Administration last year and this year repeated it with such an interesting explanation that the VAT Law does not have such a possibility, but the Income Taxation Act does not repeat that nor can it. And that's why today any enterprise that has light assets on balance doesn't know where to put the added value taxes, the excise congregations that are paid for the purchase of a car. This bill clearly decides what to do with it. If you buy a product like.. that doesn't belong in the core funds, then VAT goes into the expense. If core funds are still being bought, then VAT is depreciated, capitalized and depreciated in the group of the respective core fund. This will greatly facilitate and improve the application of taxation. It will, for example, harmonize the two Laws with the added cost and income tax for businesses. You can only introduce this bill from a quarter period, I remind you. So since the day the bill was published, it can't be introduced because we have a quarterly income tax. So it is more faithful than anything that it has to take effect since January 1, 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u111	Thank you for giving an absolutely specific answer to the question that was asked to the previous report. No questions to Sergey Teryochin? None. Right. Thank you. In the discussion two - in, two - against the reduced procedure. Anyone who wants to speak up, sign up. Thank you. As I understand it, one of the Baldirievs wants to speak up, for, he's going to speak. I'm telling you, Baldwin wants to talk, he's gonna talk for it. If you don't mind, sign up. The record's coming up. Please arrange a recording from the rostrum for those who oppose it. I'm asking you, the system, we are. All right, let's go over the counter. Okay. Baldirev, please. Yuri Baldirev is speaking. Where do you want to come from? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u112	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I wanted to give the floor to Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to colleague Baldiriev for his word, it is so kind of him and surprisingly, I was not expecting such a gift, certainly, it shows that colleague Baldiriev had something to say about this bill, but it seems to him that I can say more about it, because I represent the industrial region of Zaporozhye and I am co-author of Bill 3677, for which, remember in this session hall, we've been fighting for a long time, it applied to certain tax benefits to manufacturers of domestic cars. Thanks to Gennady Josephovich, thank you for visiting Car. That is why the bill, which, including your faction then voted for, raised this car factory and worked today not only in two changes and has the opportunity to pay large taxes, i.e. it has profits. We can thank the authors of these two bills, 2011 and 20-1. And we especially need to express our satisfaction with the work of the profiling committee, which, you know, we very often do when we vote for the same two bills. Here comes a normal offer. 2011 – to be accepted as a basis, and 2011-1 to be read as a second reading. This rule, which is proposed when instead of increasing the cost of production for the value added tax, is paid for the purchase of light cars, these taxes are offered to include in the cost of purchased light cars, and it will contribute to the cost of products, that is, the cost of products produced by our domestic car manufacturers. By the way, today is not just "Auto-ZAZ", it is also an industrial enterprise in other regions of Ukraine. And I wish we all had as much investment as we could. So I think our faction will support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u114	Thank you. And I think Baldiriev was quite right when I asked you to speak up on this. I would like to draw the attention of the deputies and to recall once again the rule of the Rules that was set out there in the recording of the short-term question. You have a button for and against. If you're in favor, you're pushing the green button, if you're against the red button. And then all of them, all of them are done in the right way. I'm just reminding you again. Now, since we haven't used this procedure from the start, who's against it? Are they willing to speak out against it, or are they not? Kirilchuk will be against it. Please. One. Please think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u115	Alexander Alexanderovich, I'm sorry. I raised my hand to the wrong question. I have to speak from the budget committee on most of the bills as deputy committee heads. As a result, every bill today is considered on the budget committee. And we need to inform the hall, it affects the budget, it doesn't affect or partially influence. So this bill does not affect the budget. And for this reason, the reporter Terhochin said that he could be better introduced only from the beginning of any quarter. You can make decisions, maybe today, or maybe when you look at a second reading to get in, really, from 1 January 2007, like one that just keeps order and asks for the receipt of car manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u116	Thank you. I then put to the vote a draft decree on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Value Tax. [[on the payment of taxes on the purchase of cars]] Your attention, based on the 2011 draft registration number, is meant that when you consider the question, preparation for second reading will then go into its contents and the project proposed in 2011-1. So it's the 2011 vote for adoption in the first reading as a basis. Please, there's a vote. [[13:12:34]] For 402 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act is being considered, also by a reduced procedure, to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the establishment of educational institutions by religious organizations]] The report will be by Stratovic Vladimir Mikolajovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u117	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. For your consideration, there is now a bill that is important for the moral education of the future Ukrainian ethnicity and the satisfaction of the desire of many parents to give their children not only secondary or higher education at the level of the national standard, but rather the development of the best human qualities. The bill provides for the right of religious organizations whose statutes are registered in the established law of order to act as founders of higher, general secondary, preschool, extra-school educational institutions at the level of citizens, enterprises, institutions and other organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership. Today, there is a great need for such educational institutions that, along with the national level of education, are praying to give our children high moral education, develop the best human virtues, train respect for human beings, and help children to have inner strength in resisting violence, promoting tobacco, alcohol, and drugs that are rapidly spreading in the adolescent environment. Such a level of moral education in the educational process could provide educational institutions created by churches, religious organizations that can potentially create the right conditions for teaching children, train their culture of communication in a spirit of mutual respect, select appropriate staff with high moral qualities, and so on. It is important to note that this thesis can be confirmed not only by the similar practice of European countries, where, in the context of the separation of the Church from the State, schools from the Church, religious organizations have the right to obtain licences for the creation of educational institutions of different levels, but also by Ukrainian realities, because we now have a large number of private schools in Ukraine, established by believing citizens or public organizations, through which churches, religious organizations seek to satisfy the wishes of many parents of believers and even unbelievers to provide their children with education and education of high quality. These institutions include the Ukrainian Catholic University in Lviv, the Christian Economic and Humanitarian Open University in Odessa, the Ukrainian Humanities Institute in Kiev, which successfully competes with relevant state education institutions. Because these private educational institutions cannot directly establish religious organizations, there is a problem with creating a proper material and technical base for them. That is why our task today, honourable colleagues, is to bring current legislation on education to existing realities and to allow religious organizations to establish private educational institutions, as public organizations and charitable organizations can do today, and individuals. In doing so, I would like to point out that: firstly, we cannot agree with the idea of the Parliamentary Committee on Education and Science that this legislative initiative is contrary to the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine in view of the principle of separation of schools from the church and the independence of education from political parties, public, religious organizations, because these principles envision the independence of the educational process from interference by parties, social, religious organizations. I remind you that the existence of this principle does not prevent public organizations from being founders of such institutions, and the provisions of article 50 of the Education Act also recognize participants in the educational process of representatives of public organizations who participate in educational work. Therefore, giving religious organizations the right to set up educational institutions does not mean that such institutions will have compulsory religious rituals or religious courses, since education must take place within the general requirements of the educational process and under State licensing, which is already provided for in education legislation. Secondly, according to the 11th article of the Law on Freedom of Conscience, religious organizations can now create only spiritual educational institutions to train the clergy. Today, however, it is about comparing religious organizations with private individuals, other individuals of private law, including social welfare organizations, which can also create secular educational institutions. The important thing is that if for the vast majority of private schools their activities are exclusively business, religious organizations prefer to create conditions for learning in accordance with national standards and moral education for poor parents and orphans who, by virtue of their wealth, cannot pay a large fee for private schooling. Today, more than 200,000 are active in various countries — consider: 200,000 Christian schools, which fully justify their existence. In many European countries, the issue of their creation and activities is regulated by law, and in two countries, Germany and Spain, this is expressly provided for by the Constitution. On the basis of this, please support the bill of amendments and additions, which is registered in 2020, in the first reading. And the last. The Church is today an element of society. And, as Marxist Engels’ classic put it, “It is impossible to live in society and be free of it.” So let us give these social problems an adequate response and respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u118	Thank you. No questions asked. Any questions? Wait, there's a question. Please sign in. Five minutes. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u119	Dear reporter, please tell me, how should public education documents be issued upon completion of the course? And how can these documents help children later in their future life and teaching?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u120	Thank you, colleague, for asking. This makes sense that if the legislator in the Supreme Council, in other words, gives the State the right to create such educational institutions, then the diploma will be a general state example. Only they study in an institution that will be established by a religious organization. And that will give them the right to work on general principles. Today there is practice, I want to tell you about the practice of the Christian University of Humanities and Economics in Odessa, that they get their diploma, which is not recognized by the State, their special, but this diploma has the demand in Odessa for professionals, graduates of this institution. It doesn't matter the right way they do it, the important thing is knowing with the luggage they come to work. Thus, today the law is designed to allow the State to do so. Then she leveled them up to the right and then to the choice of a diploma to be recognized in the same way as that institution that would be created by a religious organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u121	Easy. I said Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u122	Obviously, the system didn't hear you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In my opinion, the initiative of our colleague Stretovich to give religious organizations the right to establish higher education institutions and institutions, including higher institutions, deserves full support because it will allow for the promotion of spirituality in society. As for the question, my colleague Yavorowski asked me to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u123	Please note that time is passed, not word. So let us not speak at once, but pass on the word to Jabor. Who's gonna ask a question right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u124	Dear reporter, Vladimir Yavorowski. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality has recently held a field meeting in such a fascinating place, you know, as the Zarvanica in Ternopolska. We met with the leading priests and the Greek-Catholic Church, and not only. I was asked this question, and I didn't know him before, that he was a student of spiritual seminars.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u125	Tell me more about the spiritual seminaries, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u126	Students of the spiritual seminary are not equal rights with secular students. Will this bill solve the problem or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u127	Of course, spiritual educational institutions are being established today by religious organizations. And they receive diplomas from graduates of the spiritual academies of one religion or another. Accordingly, the creation of secular institutions that will not have the name of spiritual ones will enable them to obtain diplomas of established government model with the appropriate legal consequences of the employment of these graduates. In other words, we are correcting the situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u128	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u129	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. A fast, socialist faction. I wanted to bring some trailers here: No comrade Engels wrote the work “Party organization. Party literature” and Vladimir Ilchi Lenin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u130	Lenin, Lenin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u131	Don't be mistaken, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u132	I've forgotten, I haven't mentioned it in 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u133	That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to ask you, on the other hand, a question. You really said very well that according to our constitutional standards religion would not interfere with the state, the state process, and so on. But there is also a reverse process: perhaps the State will interfere with what is being done in religious institutions. Well, for example, it's a license-issuer, it's already an act of the state. Another is the recognition of those or other subjects that have to be taught, this is the level of these objects and so on, this is the method that should be developed in public institutions, this is the arrangement for work and so on and so forth. So this is how we do these. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u134	Since education is regulated today by appropriate legislation, the Education Act, preschool education, the State’s control over the educational process remains. And in order to license and obtain the right status, which level this school will be, you have to be tested by the Ministry of Education. Believe today that the cruelty and brutality that we see today in the Blacks, for example, when we beat up, the boys made the movie. And what's going on in our general secondary schools, it's going to encourage some closed facility, even though it's a leader, is a hundred-year-old person, for that chamber to pull children away from it, so that they don't feel that way. Thus, to my conviction, it is the religious schools that will be created that will ensure that there will be absolute peace, order, balance, spirituality, elder reading, and Russian. And that's exactly what's going to give the incentive to give education. The important thing is to determine the market. How highly effective they will be in their knowledge when they receive such an education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u135	Have a seat, please. The word Lichuku Volodymyr Ivanovich of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u136	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education and Science at its meeting on October 10, 2006, Protocol No. 9, reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Establishment of Religious Institutions. Bill No. 2020 of 30.08.2006, introduced by our colleague, National Deputy Volodymyr Stretovic. The bill proposes to amend and supplement the laws of Ukraine on education and non-school education, which grant the right to religious organizations whose statutes are registered in the established law, to act as founder of educational institutions. The committee unanimously decided to reject the prescribed draft law as one that did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine governing relations in the field of education. Our decision was based on the fact that, according to part three of article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the church and religious organizations are separate from the state and the school is separate from the church. In connection with this Ukrainian Education Act, article six, the basic principles of education define the independence of education from political parties, public and religious organizations, the secular nature of education. Part three of article three of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act establishes that general secondary education is aimed at ensuring the overall development of the personality through education and education based on the principles and values of the general public, the secular nature of education, systems, the unity of education and education, the principles of humanism, democracy, civil awareness in the interests of human beings, families, society and the state. In accordance with article 17, part 1, paragraph 3, of the same law, the formation and operation of organizational structures of political parties and religious organizations and paramilitary formations are prohibited in public educational institutions. In addition, according to current legislation, religious organizations have already been given the right to provide religious education for children and adult educational institutions and groups, article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. We ask you to support the decision of the Supreme Council Committee on Science and Education and to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for who's up for it, who's up for it, by the buttons that are in front of you. Here comes the vote. Vyziewsky, please, is in favor of both Redfoot and Cibenko and Suchy against. Please. You can talk from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u138	Thank you. Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. The very relevance of this law is, and the adoption that is desirable is that the issues of secular institutions and religious institutions can be settled. The State itself will be able to provide some knowledge to the citizens, our children who will complete this institution and have the appropriate national diplomas, and the religious organization that established this institution will provide the other necessary, necessary knowledge for this person. So just to normalize the situation, it's precisely the need for State intervention, for licensing that they're going to be in the Ministry of Education, which means that education can control whether this facility at the right level is providing education or not. I want to say from the experience of Lviv Catholic University that in many cases the knowledge required by education in this institution is much higher than in any other institution. So I would appeal to those who still intend to uphold this law or not to support it just as it is to support it. And then every religious organization, in addition to their knowledge that they consider necessary to give to a young person, will be able to provide that knowledge and in many cases far greater knowledge than the public institutions can. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u139	Instead of the Red Philindash from the faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u140	Eugenie Filindash, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues and radio listeners! We must all set an example, particularly for the people's deputies, to respect the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. In our Constitution, there is a clear rule that the church is separate from school. There is a corresponding record in the legislation on education. We understand, of course, that there is no longer a shortage of athletic manoeuvres, cinemas, cultural houses and so forth for many religious organizations, including those not traditional for Ukraine, who are trying to influence the minds of our citizens and, above all, the minds of young people. And it is clear that it is very desirable to have an impact now and through the establishment of schools, which, of course, in many cases, schools, universities and other educational institutions will be successful even in comparison with the state, because there will be a funding problem in public time, and there will be no funding problems. Thus, children, adolescents, adolescents, girls and girls will be transformed into educational institutions that will be based on religious organizations and will be treated accordingly. We must not allow any violation of the Constitution and our faction will not support such a bill. We must focus on developing and strengthening public education, as provided for by the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine, to create equal opportunities for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u141	Eugene Vasilovich, I'm making a note of you, because you've been registered to campaign "for" and you've been saying "against". So note this situation. Zybenko's coming, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u142	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my position today as a teacher-practice who has worked in school for 17 years and I understand what this is about. I absolutely share the concern of the committee that denies the support of this bill by referring to the rules of law and the Constitution. I totally support this approach, but I'd like to expand a little bit on the motivation that this bill can't be supported. And the point is that we've been dealing very often lately with the fact that the head of non-state education institutions at different levels of accreditation, we're faced with the fact that we don't meet certain educational standards. Today, where certain education licenses are issued, whether they are secondary education or higher education or so on, we have a lot of problems. And today, very often, attestation committees, including the Education Ministry, are facing this problem, which is becoming a question of full growth, of recalling the school's already licensed license. Today we're trying to create another precedent. For example, today there are 62 churches registered in Ukraine, sorry about which standards may be discussed when even among the religious organizations themselves, among the churches themselves, there will be no single approach to education. So I am absolutely convinced that our society, our education system today is not ready for this, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine today cannot support this document. On behalf of the faction, I would like to state that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u143	Please, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u144	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I would like a word with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u145	Please, Baldirev Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u146	Dear Alexander! Dear colleagues! In principle, someday we will have to adopt such a law. But now I am addressing Aleksandro Nikolaevich Stretovic, I beg your pardon, Vladimir Nikolaevich, for us being trapped in the same trap that we had with the amendment to the Earth Code. And the absolute majority of deputies with such prejudice are referring to this idea precisely because we will at the same time open locks for all churches. Not only for those churches that live with our people, who are 1,000 years old, like the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, who are 150 years old, like the Lutheran Church, but we will open gateways for all, including totalitarian sects, which have come to us very recently, which have recently done and have emerged specifically to destroy the spirituality and culture of our people. Therefore, I think that the discussion of this issue now is damaging to a good, healthy idea. Today we will not support this law, we cannot support it precisely for the reasons I am talking about. Let us lay it down, let us take the necessary amendments to the Religious Organizations Act by the end of the year, and then return to this law and return to the amendments to the Earth Code. I appeal to the author of the law to make such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Under the Rules, a faction that has not taken part in the discussion has the right to express its opinion. And on this point, Alexander Turchinov makes a statement from the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! We learned yesterday what a huge deficit we'll have in our budget. But believe me, the spiritual deficit in our society is much greater, and much scarier. That is why our faction does propose, despite party sympathy and antipathy, to uphold this law. What is it? That's not what I'm talking about, Mr. Zibanko. That in parallel, schools or universities will be creating schools of Christian or other religious education, no. It's about us and you, as a civilized society, legalizing the right of churches to create educational institutions. What's more, respectable colleagues, they create, they exist, and there are seminars, and there are spiritual universities, there are schools. But they actually function as general commercial structures. And they're not actually legalized. And that's why there's a proposal by the authors of this law to support the initiative of all churches, I emphasize that our faction has met with the Council of Churches of Ukraine, with all the leading churches, they ask you to uphold this law – regardless of the religious sign. It's because they want to legally have schools. They want our country to be civilized, developed like Europe, like any country from which we can take an example. Let's respect ourselves. And let's adopt this law no matter what faction is offering it. Please support this law. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u149	Please, we have a deputy minister, Teslako, the minister of education, his two words, since it is important to find out where he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u150	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to point out that the bill that has been tabled does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, does not fit in with the current legislation of Ukraine on education and freedom of conscience and religious organization. In our view, and this is the main question, what will be the nature of education — secular or religious? And this is very important because there is an automatic contradiction to article 6, article 9, of the Education Law. And I also want to emphasize, honourable MPs, that we have the inverse and the inverse components of the education system, if these institutions are going to teach courses and objects in the probative component, they're going to be one thing. It will be a private school, and if it is an inverse component, children will be obliged to study them automatically and receive evaluations. And the bill does not answer that question. It doesn't answer, either, the question of who's going to finance, support, doesn't answer how they're going to solve the problems of human resources -- who's going to be the teacher? Whether a religious actor and how he will be tested or a teacher and where he will then be prepared. And that's going to be a bunch of problems, and I think the Ministry of Education and Science supports the Committee of the Supreme Council, which in this case, is going to adopt this bill prematurely. And we're afraid and we see here a guaranteed precedent is being created between religions and so that schools don't become the center of this struggle. So there's a proposal to reject and send for work, taking into account the importance of the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u151	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I also met with the leaders of all the major religions, and they asked questions about schools and other issues. There we agreed that they would join this case and our deputies as well, and the corresponding Department of the Ministry of Justice to prepare a clarification of the Freedom of Conscience Act, where to identify first the issues that relate to promoting religious organizations that unite Ukrainian citizens in terms of creating conditions in a material sense, in law, as legal persons, and so on. I'm asking for your attention. And in this regard, obviously in this case, we would have to listen to the committee’s point of view, because when it comes to deviations from the rules of the Constitution, we can put the President in an awkward position. In an absolutely delicate area where we are talking about a spiritual part of our social life, the President will have to abide by the Constitution's rules not to sign such a law. So I would like to take into account the draft ruling and the position of the committee and in this sense put to the vote a draft law, a more faithful draft decision of the Supreme Council, which is made by a committee with the following content: The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts should be rejected as not in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I'm voting on this bill. [[13:41:00]] For 239. Decision taken. This project is rejected. I ask both the drafters of the bill and others to join in preparing changes to the Freedom of Conscience Act in order to meet the representatives of the faiths. As you and I have agreed, we have voted to postpone the consideration of the first question of resignation. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the report, the discussion has already taken place on this subject, and I ask you to listen to the opinion of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, who is taking part in this meeting. We welcome him to the work of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u152	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! I've repeatedly said and expressed my point of view about the work of the government and the individual ministers who are represented in the government of the "Our Ukraine" Block. Once again, I would like to point out that in the government and I personally, there were no questions for the work of these ministers. They were current, as they were for every ministry and every minister and every person. Personally, I was comfortable working with these ministers. We had a normal situation when we discussed and made decisions. So we had the opportunity, in a fairly calm environment, to express our views in making decisions, and we always used only one goal of how to do better for our nation and for the Ukrainian people. Therefore, these statements were written by ministers solely for political reasons. I told them that I felt for them as people, because I told them frankly that they were set up when they went to the government and removed their parliamentary powers. But why did this happen, I don't know. So, in expressing my point of view, I was obliged to tell you, honourable national deputies, because there was an event in August when we approved the full composition of the government. But you made the right decision, I mean, on the committee, so you decided to release four ministers. I'd like to now, if I may, support the government and the Prime Minister. Today, we're going to make a decision about the release of two ministers and the approval of two ministers, and allow two ministers to work, and we're going to make a decision when, they say, we're going to have a very clear approach, because we weren't ready to make that decision today. That's why I'm making an offer, honourable colleagues, to support the personal decision of the ministers of Zvaricz Roman Mihajlovich and the Lich Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice. And I present proposals that are appropriate for the appointment of the Minister of Culture of Bogick Yuri Petrovich and the Minister of Justice of Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this matter before lunch. And the question is exhausted in the sense that there are statements and there is a Prime Minister's proposal. I put to the vote draft decree 21, 2440 – on the resignation of Igor Dmitrovich Lichov as follows: “Adopt the resignation of the Minister of Culture of Likhov Igor Dmitrovitch.” Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[13:47:11]] For 246 The decision is taken, for -246. 2442. The factions? Please publish in factions. Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPI – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. 2442, there is an application for the resignation of Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič as Minister of Justice. I'm voting on a project in the paper that I just repeated about Igor Dmitrovich Lichov. Please. [[13:47:57]] For 247 Decision taken. On behalf of you, on behalf of the Supreme Council, I would like to thank these ministers, who have worked in good faith in the Cabinet of Ministers and for political reasons, on political grounds, who have applied for resignation. We thank them. I think they have taken courageous steps because it is not in a simple political situation that they have taken responsibility for such actions. [[Applause]] Now it's about appointments. I'm asking you, you have the materials in your hands regarding each other's ministers. If there is a need, well, we didn't discuss this issue in general, we made proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council by voting were determined on appointments. You have a draft decree from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you want to organize a discussion? Please, don't worry. Take another look at the regulatory procedures, as is done. A report on the decision was made by the Prime Minister. If you have a question for him about that, you can ask. No questions asked. Please ask the Prime Minister if anyone has a five-minute appointment. I realized the mistake came out of my hand. What's that? The question of appointment of ministers is not included in the order of the day. Therefore, I ask that I vote to include in the agenda the question of the appointment of ministers, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal to be included in the agenda. [[13:51:01]] For 247 Decision taken. If you have any questions about Victor Fedorovich regarding these ministers, please write down. Please, five minutes. Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u154	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The point is, I don't have a question for Victor Fedorovich, it's for you. The question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers is dealt with under the procedure of article 201 of the Rules, and we as national deputies in accordance with part three of this article have the right to question candidates for posts. Why do you deprive us of this right? We had to be distributed early according to part two of the material. We haven't received them yet. That is why we cannot now consider the matter. And if anyone did, they didn't all get it. And we should have time to get to know them. So this question is not ready, it cannot be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u155	Please give Sergei Sass the material. Well, why are you saying you didn't get it when you all got it and you didn't get one? Well, that's not the case, please. I answered your question, I answered. Please, Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u156	Mr. Prime Minister, we support this decision to leave some of the ministers who represent “Our Ukraine” in the government, because this means that we are not closing the door to create a broad coalition. But I would like to ask you, after all, about Minister Tarasyuk, who has done a great deal of damage to Ukraine's foreign policy. What will be his fate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u157	Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk works in government under the quota of the President of Ukraine. And you know that the agreement that existed at the time of the approval of the full composition of the government between the President and the Prime Minister remains. Today, there are current questions that arise. I'd say they're natural in relation to the redistribution of powers between the government and the President, but we've started to solve these issues at the cutting levels, at the working groups, at the levels of the Cabinet Secretariat and the President's Secretariat, and if these issues are not resolved, as they say, in the working order, they will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court in accordance with the law. Therefore, the issue of the work of ministers under the President's quota is not the responsibility of the government. I'm going to say that there are differences, political differences, and they need to be resolved at a higher political level, and I would say so, at the level of Parliament, because it is Parliament that determines the principles of internal and foreign policy in accordance with the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u158	In principle, Victor Fedorovich answered the question, I am obliged simply to make one point. According to the Constitution, he can propose both procedures and functions, he can propose the issue of resignation, but he solves the issue of the Supreme Council according to an article of the Constitution that speaks of mistrust. But in this case this question is not being discussed, we have specific names named, specific positions, and let's focus on this part of our question. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u159	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Victor Fedorovich! Four ministers were discussed today, but the committee also considered the matter of the minister of the interior of Lucenka and recommended that he also be deprived of his office. Please tell me, what will be the further fate of Minister Lucenk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u160	I'd like to ask you again: let's focus on the issues that are being discussed. Please. Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u161	I also answered that question repeatedly in the media. As for the interior minister's work in the Cabinet of Ministers, I have no questions personally to Minister Lucenka. I'm not a personal expert on the matter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the work of law enforcement. The only question that I had before the Minister of Internal Affairs was that I asked him to work as a minister of the interior rather than be a commentator or correspondent of the print or other media. It was very important for him to understand that. And in my opinion, he's understood a lot lately. I wish he'd come to realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u162	Thank you. Time is spent on questions and answers. I put to the vote draft Decree No. 7738 concerning the appointment of the Minister of Culture and Tourism of the Ukraine of Bogacký Jury Petrovich. Please, there's a vote. [[13:57:53]] For 246 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I said, number 2450, yes. And decision number 24. Wait, 2449 on the appointment of Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'm betting on a draft ruling. [[13:58:43]] For 246 Decision taken. Once again, let's thank the ministers who resigned and released and greet the new ministers, and wish them success in the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm giving Alexander the Lyachka word to make a note, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u163	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, in accordance with article 201 of the Supreme Council Rules, national deputies have the right to ask candidates for office. Today, you have denied us opposition representatives the opportunity to ask candidates whether they are already ministers of culture and justice. We had these questions. Since you do not respond in accordance with article 29 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I would like to allow myself to make a comment, and I am very much asking you not to deny the opposition the right to ask questions. I also want to remind you that when you were in opposition and you were denied the opportunity to express your position, you protested accordingly. I ask you not to take advantage of the experience of the bestial times and not to resort to the methods tested here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-01-m0.u164	Thank you, Oleg, thank you, Deputy Oleg Easy to note. I mean, I couldn't put you in an awkward position and ministers -- candidates for positions, because Alexander Lavrinovich is not here, he's on a mission in China. And Bogick was. So they're not going to be on the same side. On the other hand, your factions, on behalf of the faction, stated that they would not participate in the discussion of the matter and would not make the decisions made. So I think you're going to be able to ask questions to each other's ministers. And I'll take your remark into account and try not to violate the Rules anymore. Please declare the morning session closed. At 3 p.m., listening is extremely important -- the problem of Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
