ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV sets, radio audiences! October 31st, Tuesday. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. Please. [[10:05:14]] There were 379 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Honourable MPs, on October 27, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006 in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Lechnik Viktor Mikolaiovich, who was included in the election list of the “Our Ukraine” Block. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lechchenko Viktor Mikolayovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished presiding officer. I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u3	Thank you. Welcome to the new National MP. We wish him success in the chosen field. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Tuesday we have time for statements by authorized factions with proposals for announcements, statements, and messages. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance, please. Please, Peter, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko of the Communist faction. He'll be followed by Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been instructed by the faction of the Communist Party to make a brief statement. I would like to say that Ukraine is a unique state, but not all of us understand its uniqueness. The uniqueness is not just what we do, what we produce, which we leave behind an inheritance, but the uniqueness is that Ukraine is the fifth place in the world by the number of agricultural arrangements and the 25th place in the world by the number of population. And today, Ukraine is on the sidelines of civilized nations and is constantly asking to be accepted into European society. It's humiliating. But I want to say, dear friends, if we understand this, we should probably think of a field that can restore the economic situation of our country. And I think it's clear to everyone that this is an agri-industrial complex. An agro-industrial complex with enormous economic and social potential. But what worries us is that 15 years of God - cursed reform has led us to have 15 million rural people living outside the poverty line today. Today the debased agrarian science, which from year to year, is practically financed in the final principle by Ukraine’s budgets. And today, when the 2007 budget is being formed, the same thing is being done. I want to say here that we are at the threshold when, as of 1 January 2007, there may be an irreparable tragedy for Ukraine when the land becomes a commodity. So the people's agrarians, regardless of their political preferences, their political passions for one faction or another, gathered together and set up an agrarian working group that has to deal with strategic issues. This working group included 22 national deputies. From the faction of the Party of Regions – 7 people, from BUT – 3, from Our Ukraine – 2 from the Socialist Party – 5, from the Communist Party – 2 from the Communist Party and the non-fractional – 3. Chosen by the head of the inter-parliamentary group Tkachenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, i.e. me, representative of the Communist Party, first deputy head elected Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich from BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u5	Please, from the faction to five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u6	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich from the faction of the Party of Regions, by Sinchenko Vasil Andriyovich from the Socialist faction and Sklar Vladimir Borisovich from “Our Ukraine”. I would ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to instruct the relevant authorities to register this interfractional organization and to certainly create conditions for its work. I think that this interfractional group will do everything to restore the glory of Ukraine as an agrarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u7	Thank you. Consider that such an assignment is given to the secretariat and that the registered group will be there. Work in the name of the interests of the field and of those living on the earth. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Is the Turk gonna talk? Please, Turkinov from the "Julia Timoshenko" faction. Five minutes to go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u8	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs. We have to say that in Ukraine, criminal terror has been solved against the opposition force of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc. The beatings, the threats of our deputies, especially at the local level, are becoming norms. At the same time, we cannot fail to report the terrible events that took place last week. On October 26, in Lviv, Lviv, deputy director of the Lviv Town Council, Roman Fidishin, was injured when he was near a car, after an explosion in a car. His assistant was badly injured. And the main thing. A 14 - year - old girl who went to school was killed on the scene. On October 27, the next day, on the eighth floor of his own apartment, he was killed by two shots to the head of Gennady Bistrakow, the assistant national deputy Skoubenko of our faction. Dear colleagues, no murder for hire. Ukraine is still undiscovered, undiscovered, and undiscovered. Instead of serious work, instead of fighting crime, there are empty press conferences of our own forces, where we hear empty chatter, lies and nonsense. We demand that the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine be heard immediately in Parliament. We demand that we stop the chatter and start real investigations against the murder warrants. We demand an end to terror in Ukraine. At the same time, we today have to say that the authorities in Ukraine are unable to protect their citizens. What's more, we're forced to say that the authorities are obsessing over murderers and crime. And the question is, why? And we answer, because today there's a criminality, a dot. Next. The evidence that criminality is in charge of the country is also a live conversation by the Minister of Energy Boyk, who in fact admitted that he, working as head of NAK Naftogazu, actually represented the semi-criminal structure of RossUkrenergo in negotiations with his own NAK Naftogazu structure. That is to say, live crime is recognized as a crime of great magnitude, resulting in a total of two billion dollars every year in our Ukrainian economy. For this reason, people receive and receive ministerial posts instead of being held in prison. That is why our faction requires this week to vote on an investigative commission to investigate the activities of intermediaries, criminal intermediaries, and the harmful effects of their activities. And to the end. Dear colleagues, we urge all national MPs who have dignity, who have dignity, to unite with us in order to stop the union of criminal officials, dirty businessmen, and mobsters who have taken power in Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u9	The Socialist faction gives Vasil Petrovich Zushko a word. Attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! For the first time, I am speaking from this rostrum with a statement not on the political issue or on the law. This issue concerns the security of my family and my family. My public statements recently and a specific presentation on one of the television broadcasts, where there was a heated debate on the issue that I, which led to what I had done, had quoted President Yushchenko as saying that the activities of EESU-One Energy Systems had damaged the State of 8 billion bracelets. After that statement, my family and I were subjected to illegal pressure and persecution by unknown persons. The unknown threatened me and my family to stop making such statements on the air. Threats were transmitted by phone. And the unknown had the numbers of all my contact phones, both domestic and employee, and the most interesting, my children's mobile phones. I would not betray the importance of these calls, but I cannot hide my concern that the people closest to me are being persecuted. Moreover, some factual circumstances during this week confirm that the chain of accidents is becoming a chain of planned, or circumstances. I therefore requested a letter from the relevant authorities to examine and assess the situation and requested my family to provide protection during that period, as long as an investigation into the incident was conducted, which was convinced to be open, objective, in order to demonstrate the inadmissibility of using unworthy methods of political trauma to others, to confirm that the course towards democracy, human rights, freedom of speech in Ukraine remained unwavering. I call on all of us, regardless of what level of policy we are engaged in, in the Supreme Council, in other councils, and in positions of office, to abandon double standards. Life is given to a person once and, believe me, when you feel that way about your loved ones because you have an opinion, it gets really scary. And not to politicize these issues, but to appeal to all of us, MPs, as well as to law enforcement officials to be without policies, indeed to protect and ensure both freedom of speech and democracy and to protect the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u11	The word has from “Our Ukraine ” the Hebrew Paul Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have been asked to read out a statement from the “Our Ukraine” faction about the budgetary process. The “Our Ukraine” faction claims that it is unacceptable to consider and approve in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 without having been thoroughly familiar with it by the national MPs. Today, we are actually asked to adopt the principles of the conceptual principles on which the budget will be based next year. Members should be aware that according to article 42 of the Budget Code for second reading, the bill is exclusively prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, they do not match the reality of the claim that Parliament will be able to correct those many principles of shortcomings that will remain after the first reading. From the time of the Supreme Council's review of the draft state budget, more than 700 amendments and additions have been made to the “Our Ukraine” factions alone. At the same time, only yesterday evening MPs were able to get a comparison table. We cannot judge the government's efforts and, so-called, anti-crisis coalition by grabbing without careful study by the MPs, push through Parliament a draft budget otherwise than by trying to push the citizens of Ukraine a cat and a bag. This is a violation of the principles of transparency of the budgetary process. Such steps by the authorities include attempts to hide from the Ukrainian people and MPs the unprofessionalness and threats to the economy of the country's main financial instrument. After all, even a preliminary analysis of the budget project shows the numerous facts of underfunding social expenditure, over-centralization of budgetary resources, disruptions in funding for individual regions, sectors, and so on. The “Our Ukraine” faction requires the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the review of the National Budget Project for 2007 until at least Thursday, 2 November, with the aim of introducing it to the National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u13	The word comes from the factions of Vladislav Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u14	Declaration by the factions of the regions regarding the restoration of relations with the Russian Federation. Respectable compatriots! The faction of the regions welcomes all Ukrainian citizens with the beginning of a new political period, a period of friendly relations with the brotherly Slavic State, the Russian Federation. We express our deep satisfaction and support for the actions of the government of Viktor Yanukovic, where good neighbourliness, mutual cooperation, orientation for a long-term strategic partnership. Dear voters! Ukraine has received a cruel historical lesson in the collapse of illusions about the abilities and abilities of the orange political forces. Regrettably, simple people are always counted for the mistakes of politicians. The citizens of Ukraine felt the depth of the political adventures of previous rulers. The situation is changing now. Not all of a sudden, not all of a sudden. Those who want free magic, economic fairy tales, and political nonsense can continue to listen to their favorite orange actresses and storytellers. Our government has been able to melt the ice of the inexplicable and indeterminate relationships that the orange woe-makers have accumulated. We say two and a half months later, we've done a lot. It's hard to even count. I'll stop at the head. First, the government of Viktor Yanukovic has restored the normal working mechanism for cooperation and solving all issues between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. It's different. Arrangements have been made to increase the supply of oil to Ukrainian oil refineries. So, they're loaded with the business, the oil market is saturated, prices are down, people have jobs. Third. Ukraine knows the exact price and volume of gas it will receive. Foreign experts highly appreciate the deal reached by the Ukrainian side. Four. Arrangements have been reached for mutually beneficial cooperation in energy. Six. Since 2007, Ukraine and Russia have been launching “Cooperation in Space Research and Use”. Ukraine and Russia will continue to cooperate in the aviation industry. The first is the restoration of the serial production of AN-124 aircraft. Next. In the agro-industrial sector, unhindered supply of meat products from Ukraine is being restored to Russia. Temporary restrictions on the transit of animal products have been lifted. A number of agreements on inter-regional and cross-border cooperation have been signed that have a good impact on the economic development of these regions. Ukraine’s economy is accelerating. Another scheduled meeting date for the International Economic Committee of Ukraine-Russia. As part of the interstate commission, 11 subcommissions have been created, and they have started to work in real terms to improve cooperation. The weighted pragmatic course offered by the anti - crisis coalition and the government led by Viktor Yanukovic triggered the countermeasures by the Russian Federation. Undoubtedly, working more effectively and productively for the benefit of both nations can be done solely on the basis of cooperation and mutual respect for the national interests of each party. A party of regions does not promise the impossible. Yet we guarantee you day by day, step by step the government of Yanukovich works and will work for the citizens of Ukraine. Together, we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u15	Thanks for the show. Several answers to the questions raised by the speakers. Alexander Turchinov made a statement regarding the terror in Ukraine and the fact that the authorities were obsessing over the murderers and others made a remark. I made a proposal to create a temporary special commission. Regarding the commission yesterday on the Conciliation Council, I said: Please prepare a draft ruling. They've prepared. The factions involved, we vote, we create such a commission, it will work. Regarding the term of work, the commission that will study the participation of mediators in the gas market, I think there's too much going on there for six months because we're turning Parliament into a commission instead of doing the legislative work. You have to shorten the term, but you have to figure out who, who, how, what interests, and how it works. At the same time, I would ask everyone to use more carefully the time in the rostrum with regard to statements about the involvement of the authorities in crime and so forth. Alexander Valentinovich had a wonderful opportunity to demonstrate the power and order of power as head of the Security Service. I don’t recall any examples of such consequences. So let us not throw stones into other people’s cities but look first at our own. I would also like to avoid using offensive definitions such as “the so-called anti-crisis coalition”. It is named according to the Constitution and the Rules of Ukraine "Anti-Cristian Coalition", it formed the Cabinet of Ministers, which includes, by the way, the factions of the faction, which has spoken today with criticism of the so-called coalition, but you should bear in mind that it was created in accordance with the Constitution, will work in accordance with the Constitution and will guarantee the stability of the government in Ukraine. I'd like to pay attention to that and be, once again, more correct when making a statement. We have to now come to the first issue of the agenda on the state budget of Ukraine. I would like to inform the radio audience, first of all, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is taking part in the work of Parliament, led by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic. Let's welcome the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] At the same time, I report that from the two factions – the “Julia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” — there has been an announcement of a half-hour break. Please use this time. There's a break in 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u16	We're continuing the meeting. George Trinduk of two factions will comment on the subject that they discussed during the break. Please. I'm asking for your attention! Take your seats, listen to what your colleague has to say. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u17	Hello, respectable colleagues! Yuri Trinduk, Yulia Timoshenko. Well, I would like to talk a little bit about the budget process and first thank all the members of the budget committee for the fruitful work that has been done. But this fruitful work has in fact been stopped by the last meeting of the budget committee on Friday, held in a closed regime, where an attempt has been made to literally destroy what has been done by all members of the budget committee, I would like to point out, by all factions earlier. I would also like to highlight an important point, such as the comparative tables. Comparative tables were issued to members of the budget committee at 5 p.m. yesterday. And the other deputies only received them today. In principle, it's a very large document, believe me. But I want to be uninvolved and politically uninvolved. But even if I get this document yesterday and read it in one night, it's very difficult. In addition, after working nights on these tables, I saw clear differences between what is before and what is now. I'll just read them out in a little bit. Thus, provisions regarding the resumption of BMS activities are not deleted. The current tax regime in the APC has not been extended, and lists of enterprises to be privatized have remained in the text. There is also the right of Kabmin to amend the list. Article 8, article 30, does not exclude the provision for the control of the redistribution of subsidies by the Committee. The same is true of article 49, part two, with regard to the distribution of subsidies by object. The Committee's decision to abolish the shameful provisions on civil servants, officials of local self-government and judges was ignored. What I want to say is that let us not politicize this issue. Indeed, it takes time to study this document because it is very weighty and large. I'm not ruling out that maybe they just made mistakes that needed to be worked out. Therefore, I propose to postpone consideration of the budget for a more detailed study of the comparative tables, because that is what needs to be done. And I want to see more. This is when we work in the Committee on Budgets, we have no policy, just until the last meeting. And I would like to ask the deputies to work constructively on this and you have taken this into account in the vote. I would also like to say that the issue of the budget document is very important. And let's have our meeting broadcast out on the street because people are gathering, people want to hear, people want to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, I'm using technical services. Turn it on on the street. It's very interesting when citizens listen to the essence of talking about the budget. First. Secondly, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we carefully analyzed the possibility of reviewing the bill today. I'm going to say that many factions, several factions yesterday in connection with the fact that it was the Committee of Budgets and factions that were working more constructively than ever, that they were determined at the faction meeting last night in relation to their attitude toward the budget. I took part in one of the factions, and I can say it was a really constructive conversation. I could make this proposal -- about the transfer -- but we on the Conciliation Board yesterday determined that the budget review would go today. And then, let's be consistent: we had a demand from your faction to consider the issue no later than October 20th. After we moved it to October 30th, after the committee worked and the working group was set up to offer representatives of all factions and lead this working group, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and lead this working group of the First Vice-Prime Minister and First Vice, the Chief of Staff, and the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, by holding the appropriate meeting, have prepared a document and there is now, in fact, an opportunity to learn it by way of discussion. So I would ask, I agree with Yuri Trinduk that this issue should not be considered politicized. If it turns out that he is imperfect, that he should be considered in a repetitive first reading, or that we will make the right decision. But you will be able to make a statement about the content of this document, and your opinion will be reflected in the vote. I want to say that, according to the budget code and the Rules, the budget code in particular provides for a procedure for considering the adoption of the State budget and for the Rules in the relevant articles of Chapter 26. We will act entirely in accordance with these documents. And so I'm just going to talk about the procedure myself, it predicts, I'm going to remind those who are listening on the street and those who are on the radio or television watching over Parliament's work at this point, that the first report will start with the head of the budget committee in 15 minutes; then the answer to the questions is up to 10 minutes; then the first vice-premier on the budget, up to 10 minutes; then the answer to the question is 10 minutes; the statement by the head of the House of Auditors is up to 10 minutes; and then the statements by representatives of the deputy factions, the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies. I would like to point out that the Rules provide that statements by committee representatives follow written suggestions by committee heads. They commission that there be no further dispute as to whether a member of parliament or a committee is acting out of his or her own hands. The factions will be recorded according to the traditional procedure by means of an electronic board – the “Council” system. Then there will be a closing statement, statements by representatives from factions and committees for up to 60 minutes, a closing statement from the Committee on Budget Affairs for up to five minutes and together for two hours. This rule provides for such a procedure. Actually, there's no need to vote because that's the rule of law. In that regard, I was obliged to inform you of these procedures. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. MacKeenko Volodymyr Vladimirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, representatives of the media. Today, the first new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be considered by the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ukraine's 2007 Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The project, which was developed under the conditions of change of governments and the framework of the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2007, was approved by the previous government. Therefore, the Committee on Budgetary Questions proposes to consider this budget first of all as a transitional budget, a budget based on a valid tax base, a current social legislation that is not secured by the financial resources of the State, the possibilities of our economy. The drafting of the law on the committee was carried out with the participation of national deputies, representatives of committees, in a broad discussion of the schedules of central authorities and local self - government bodies. Close cooperation with the government has demonstrated compliance with government-declared principles of realism and transparency in the budgetary process. It should also be noted that the preparation of the draft State Budget Act 2007 for consideration in the first reading was carried out by the Committee under Article 40 of the Budget Code and the adoption of the first decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish an appropriate parliamentary-government working group. It was thanks to this group, which was headed by co-chairs, the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, Mikola Janovich Azarov, and with the participation of representatives of each deputy faction, heads of the Committees on Budget Issues, Finance, Banking Activities, as well as authorised representatives of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine for the participation of the First Deputy Head of the Office of President Yacenuk Arseny Petrovich, Head of the Central Social and Economic Policy Service of Hadjudić Pavel Ivanovic. Balanced compromises were made on the most problematic issues of the bill, social, political, and pension insurance. Today, on behalf of our committee, I would like to thank all factions and committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their active work and proposals to improve the main financial document of 2007 in order to make the 2007 Act a truly financial Constitution of Ukraine. I have to say that all the proposals, whether it's national MPs, Alexandrovsky, Baranovsky, Bokoko, Gorenik, Denisov, Žebrovsky, Kinakh, Kinakh, Klutkovsky, Matvienkov, Potapova, Timoshenko, Sivolski, who submitted the largest number of comments and additions to the draft law, were of a substantive nature. There was no proposal for political coloring. The committee has been working on some 3,000 600 proposals from the National Deputies, the Supreme Council Committees, the parliamentary factions to the bill, which have now been based on more than 2.5 thousand proposals. A preliminary analysis of the above-mentioned proposals shows that the most important issues were the increase in state and local budget expenditure, the reduction in tax and assembly rates, the reduction of privatisation revenues, the introduction of new taxes, the continuation of VAT in the agricultural sector outside the budgetary system. In doing so, however, it must be pointed out that virtually all proposals made by national deputies are balanced and submitted in violation of part two of article 40 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, where it is determined that proposals for an increase in budget expenditure should determine the sources of such expenditure and the proposals for a reduction of the budget’s revenue – the sources of compensation. In addition, the legislators have proposed that we estimate that the State budget should increase by 75 billion dollars, without taking into account inter-budget transfers, and that spending proposals should be reduced by only 400 million dollars. Proposals for an increase in the estimated expenditure of local budgets, including grants and subsidies to local budgets, amount to over 20 billion dollars. The changes proposed by the people’s deputies to tax standards and incomes result in an income loss of 30 billion dollars. In total, with 2 and a half thousand proposals made by the national deputies in the comparative table, the Committee on Budget Affairs proposes to take into account, in whole or in part, one thousand 900, correspondingly, 600. In the course of the discussion of the draft law, the committee prepared some 100 government tasks to be worked out during the preparation of the draft law for submission for second reading. Now I propose to move directly to the Committee’s proposals and conclusions. It's about income. The incomes of the General Fund of the State Budget included in the project are at least tense but realistic. It should be noted that the 2007 budget growth ratio of the General Fund of the Consolidated Budget and nominal GDP growth at 2006, compared to the previous year, 2005 has been maintained. The most pressing issues of the bloc were the changes to tax legislation provided for in the bill. It should be noted that much of them will be repeated in government budget laws year after year and are systemic. This indicates the urgent need to settle the relevant issues in basic laws. At the same time, it is not supported by the committee to delete the bill's rules, as this would result in significant losses of income and would disrupt the balance of the budget. It is therefore proposed that the Government should transfer the provisions of the draft law relating to changes in tax legislation to a separate bill when amending the tax laws and submitting it to the Supreme Council with further elaboration and adoption of the law for the consideration of the "State Budget 2007" project. Such a proposal is supported by a working group. Also included is the proposal for inheritance tax and real estate transactions. In particular, housing and housing will not be taxed, not exceeding 100 square meters and the tax rate will be reduced from 5% to 1. Regarding taxation in special free economic zones and areas of priority, which also contains a discussion, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the working group, recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers prepare and submit a second-reading proposal at the same time as the draft law on the resolution of special economic zones and areas of priority development. In doing so, by providing a mechanism to create effective investment and innovation projects, ensuring strict regulation of their implementation and strengthening State control over the implementation of relevant projects. Another issue of this block, which turned out to be the most problematic, is the special taxation regime for the added cost of agricultural operations. At the same time, bearing in mind that on October 19th of this year, the Supreme Council passed a law that extended the current tax regime for farmers is proposed to entrust the Government to bring the draft State Budget Act into line with this law and to adjust the revenue and expenditure of the State Budget General Fund for State support for production programmes in the agro-industry complex. Immediately, I would like to assure you that it is not intended to reduce the overall state support of the village, but to change the mechanism of its allocation to the one that was in force in the current year, article 74 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2006. So it's through the budget, and it's through the government grant, by leaving the added value tax on the producers. Regarding the calculation of part of the revenue of state-owned enterprises, it should be noted that the committee supports the government's efforts to reduce the standard from 50 per cent to 15, which is a real step towards reducing the tax burden on the public sector of the economy and should be an incentive for innovation and investment. In this case, businesses have about two billion dollars left. After analysing the revenue figures of the State Budget project and considering the proposals in the comparative table to the draft law, the committee proposes to increase the forecast of revenue from the general budget of the State budget by 741 million dollars, in particular: by collection for special water use, by 8 million dollars, by excise collection from products produced in Ukraine -- 170 million dollars, by customs assembly -- totalling 523 million dollars, by renting whole assets and other state property -- by 20 million dollars, by income from lending operations and by granting guarantees -- by 20 million dollars. In addition, it is suggested that 93 million dollars should be reduced for the customs handling of goods and means of transport outside the customs office. About government debt and privatization. The proposed revenues from full privatization are to be included in the general budget fund of the State budget, with appropriate transfer to the general fund of expenditure on measures related to the privatization of state property. Ukraine’s sovereign debt is at a sufficiently safe level and is not projected to fall from 17 percent to 16 percent in the following year in terms of gross domestic product. This corresponds to the limit of 60 percent of the budget code of Ukraine. The committee's conclusions and proposals on this block take into account the proposals made by national deputies, which have improved a number of positions, including the strengthening of parliamentary control. In particular, Article 16 proposes to supplement the rule that requires the Ministry of Finance to inform the Committee on Budgets monthly about the replacement of some sources of government budget deficit financing for others. A similar provision regarding monthly information to the Supreme Council is also applied to article 21 on government debt transactions, including exchange, release, and redemption of government debt. The committee supports the government's initiative to accept state-owned enterprises with the Ministry of Finance in the Statory Fund, whose state owns more than 50 percent of the shares, to make internal long-term loans. Regarding the granting of State guarantees, he proposes that the issue be determined by the government in agreement with the Committee on Budget Affairs. It should be noted that among the sources of government budget funding, the most risky is the privatisation that is foreseen next year for 10 billion dollars. It is proposed that the government should review the list of enterprises that are subject to privatization in 2007, in particular in addition to its large and medium-sized enterprises, attractive to investors and the identification of the actual volumes of relevant revenues to the budget. It is also tasked with the State Property Fund to submit a draft State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 for consideration by the Supreme Council. The question of predicting Appendix 12 in the draft law in part of the suspension of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized was particularly controversial. This issue was also discussed in the working group. With joint efforts, we recommend that the Supreme Council issue a mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers to clarify this rule in a legal way and submit it together with the draft State Budget Act for second reading. With regard to local budgets and inter-budget relations. Each year, when considering a government budget, one of the main issues raised by local self-government authorities is the provision of adequate financial resources for the execution of powers delegated by the State. And this year is no exception to the rise in the minimum wage for energy prices and tariffs and other goods and services. Understanding the tension of the government budget forecast for the following year, the committee does not explicitly demand an increase in the specific amount of local budget expenditure. But he believes that the government has the necessary expenses not only to pay for work and energy but to buy drugs, food, and other priority needs. Most of the proposals made by national deputies regarding local budgets include increases in grants and subsidies from the state budget. These suggestions are correct. Therefore, we suggest that the government be instructed to study them in detail and give them a second reading of ways to address the issues that have been raised. The committee took into account the proposals made by the National Deputies of Žebrovsky, Tretlyakov, Klukkowski, Žuravac, Yehanurov, Karakaya, and others regarding the preservation of the current system of funding for the individual internal affairs units on which the local police are to be formed from the state budget. This decision was supported by a working group. I would like to point out that the committee proposes to maintain for the following year the order of allocation and the objective distribution of funds, capital subsidies for investment projects, for gasification, for energy conservation. That is, the order in which such subsidies are to be granted and the distribution of such allowances should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in agreement with the Committee on Budgets. In doing so, the list of objects will be determined on the basis of proposals made by national deputies agreed with the local authorities and should take into account the degree of readiness of the objects concerned, the availability of project documentation, the degree of gasification, and so forth. The committee supported the proposal for an objective distribution of construction subsidies, renovations, repairs of utility roads with. order. Three more minutes, Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u20	Please enable the report to be completed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u21	Thank you. With a view to reducing the risk of temporary cash breaks in the budget implementation process, the committee supported the proposal of the national deputies to establish a monthly recalculation of the funds of the under-compensation grant to the local budgets. We consider it appropriate to assign to the government the allocation between administrative and territorial units of expenditure under the relevant State Budget programme, primarily for the development and reconstruction of centralized water supply and water supply systems. This will contribute to a more transparent distribution and efficient use of budgetary resources. The committee proposes to consider a possible increase in the local budget of the congregation for environmental pollution from 35 percent to 50 percent. This will increase the resources of local budgets that will focus on conservation and territorial development. It is also proposed that from the following year, local authorities be given authority to grant land - payments to institutions and organizations that are currently receiving benefits under the Cabinet of Ministers’s decision. This is a real step toward solving the painful problem of local budgets, which each year lose almost 1 billion dollars. As for the state budget expenditure. In particular, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, at their suggestion, deleted Article 60’s rule on limiting the provision of child support. Such assistance will be provided, as in the current year, to all without exception to the mothers of newborns. Article 116 was deleted, which provided for a limitation of two living minimum pensions for working pensioners. This issue was further considered by the working group. Article 110 was deleted, which was intended to recalculate pensions in the event of an increase in the salary level of the corresponding categories of working persons and part of part two of article 108, which the Pension Fund is asked to recalculate previously assigned pensions within the maximum amount set. Article 140 was deleted, which stipulated that the hospital’s 30 - calendar days would be limited. It should be noted that many discussions have taken place on the committee to determine the conditions of pay. This was also the case with the consideration of the working group, which finally decided to support the government's position regarding the definition of the conditions of pay for all employees of public and municipal fiscal institutions is excluded by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, respectable colleagues, the 2007 draft budget does not provide for a reduction in social protection and social security costs; rather, there is an 8 per cent increase in social protection expenditure in co-existence. Finally, I would like to point out that the committee has taken a decision, all of the proposals made by the National Deputies to the Appendices: three, four and five, which relate to the expenditure figures of the budget at this stage of the bill's passage, should not be considered separately, but should the Government be given a mandate after the first reading to deal with them carefully in order to return to the mentioned issue in the second reading. So the comparative tables that you have in your hands on all of these amendments are partially included in the Cabinet of Ministers. Despite the fairly tight deadlines given to the government for the preparation of the 2007 budget project, it provides for the preservation of social indicators at a level not below the current year. This is in line with the principles of the formulation of the draft budget expressed by the President of Ukraine in a letter to the Supreme Council on 6 October this year. The committee supported the President’s proposals and took them into account in its conclusions. Please support these findings and allow the government to work productively on the draft law to prepare for the second reading. Dear colleagues! For the first time, we have a historic chance. Three years to the next election. During this period, we have the opportunity to adopt a balanced budget in 2007 and to start today to consider non-politicised projects of the State Budget for 2008, 2009. These documents will unite us all — and the President of Ukraine, the national deputies and the government — in the name of the prosperity of our Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u22	Thank you for the report. I'm just reminding you that you have to go into the rules. Considering the significance of this document. We went here to deflect the standard, even though you didn't go beyond the general right to use time for the budget report to deal with the issue in the first reading. But. It's 10 minutes to ask. Please state 10 minutes and sign up for questions, honourable deputies. Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u23	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I have a question. There's a rule that for investment projects to gasify agreement with national MPs, with administrations. This brings us every year, we are witnessing that the Kabminu decree comes out at the end of August. It is not better to divide how everyone is now divided into circuit councils, so let them determine what objects. We've led to 140 schools not being built on these subsidies. And for 2006, again 39 new schools. We need 50 grand to finish the gasification. So let's get this over with, we're not giving this 50,000, we're starting a new 2.5 million project. I say that this norm has not justified itself, the proposals of the national MPs, the agreement that leads up to September, we agree on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the political system in Ukraine has changed. You know very well that the previous summons was chosen by a mixed system: half the parliament was majors, half the parliament went through party lists. Today we have a 100 percent party system. The political situation has changed, and the system of distribution of subsidies, including gasification, needs to be changed. Your suggestion is, she's in the position of the National MPs. And the committee will take it into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u25	A helmet. Vitenko. Where's Schlemko? Then I'm sorry, I didn't notice. That's for you to focus. A helmet, please. Now, now. Please speak, the system is on. Look at your card. Did you put your card in there or not? Please. Secretariat, clear out the service, please. As long as he asks the question, Vitenko, and then I'll give him my word again. Please. Please, Vitenko. And then. So I don't hear what you're saying. Please, Vitenko. Vitenko's giving the word to the Turk, isn't he? Please speak. I'm asking for a break. One minute, calm down! Figure out why the system doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to give the floor to Schlemko. Alexander Aleksandrovich, please, Schlemko, the system's already on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u27	Please speak, Helmet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the Turkish deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u29	Okay, well, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u30	The point is that Vitenko will pass on the word to another of our national deputies. Dear colleagues, I would like to address Mr. MacKeenko, who is the head of the Committee on Budgets. I'm showing you this little book that we only got this morning. And each deputy received two of these. So the question to you is, can we read this document seriously and carefully in two hours or in three hours to vote for it? That's the first question. The second question is why, with the majority, the anti-crisis coalition on the budget committee, including, went to the forgery of the document you gave us today. In just half an hour, we began to read this document. And we got a position -- free economic zones, understood who it's for. E took your committee to include them in the budget. The VAT, the saving of the zero bet you voted for agriculture, it's written down -- 12% and so on, and so on. Why you start working on the budget process by lying and falsifying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for showing you the booklet, I can show you something, too, a booklet is the conclusions and suggestions of the Supreme Council, signed by me as the head of the 27th Committee of Budget this month. 28 of the registration sector registered all these documents, electronically and on a working group with the first vice-speaker being present, it was confirmed that 28 of the materials were all distributed. They were distributed in printed material, and I personally witnessed the distribution of these materials on the registration desks yesterday. It's about the first reading. On the second question, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. You were the head of the Budget Committee and the Budget Code was adopted for your guidance. I remind you that the Budget Committee, in its work, is operating under a budget code that was adopted when you were the head. As far as Jacob is concerned, it seems to be a forgery. You know very well, there's been no forgery. I was in charge of the task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u32	Allow me to finish my opinion, but make a brief statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u33	A meeting of the Budget Committee was held openly, in the presence of all the national deputies who had the wish. As far as counterfeiting is concerned, stop engaging in political agitation. The elections are over, allow us to form a normal budget that will suit the interests of the people. But I don't want to tell you what adjustments have been made: The Trendyuk who spoke before this, Kirilczuka, the National Deputy, Sivolski Mikli Ivanovich, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, came most from your faction. We worked openly. If you talk about Friday’s meeting, yes, it took place after the meeting of the working group, but it was the committee’s decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u34	Vitenko. Please ask a more concise question and answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u35	Please give the word to Tomenka Mikola Volodymirovich. Tomenek, Tomenku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich! I'm one piece before the previous discussion. I think you should also recognize as the head of the committee that, in principle, well, you shouldn't virtually study the budget on the Internet. It's a great thing to read a budget on the Internet, but it's obviously necessary to distribute the budget in advance and actively work as prescribed by the Rules. I have two questions. First, a big problem in terms of respect for all regions: as you thought in the budget to balance the interests of these regions, because, for example, we see 140 million in one area at the airport, and the other area is not mentioned at all. And secondly, how did you decide to relate the interests of power and society, because, for example, for the repair of the “Phoeofania” 200 million for the elite, 100 million for all the country's field sites? How can justice be taken into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. The questions you raised are, in fact, referred to the second, third, fifth appendix, and we will consider them after the first reading, if the Supreme Council supports, for the second reading. All the numbers that are there are controversial. I can remind you more. There's a park, there's 39 million, I guarantee you that with these figures I won't go out to the Supreme Council's rostrum, and social justice, it'll be counted. And this is what the government insists on. It's simply the position of our people's deputies, the amendment. I do not want to list their names, but they are not really attached to the earth, to the real needs of our voters. And as for areas, this is year after year, you know very well how this money is distributed. According to the formula, which according to the population, according to the subsidies, according to the incomes that are in the areas. And we invite you to work, if there's not enough deputies from the BIT faction to take these proposals into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u38	Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u40	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u41	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. In addition to the development of the 2007 draft budget, your committee also had to consider all the bills that had a major impact on the revenue and expenditure portion of the budget. In your report, you touched part of it. But I have two questions. First. What specific conclusions have been adopted by the committee on the legislation on tax conditions for business entities that implement investment projects in special free economic zones and areas of priority development? And the second. How do you view the deletion of article 9, paragraph 8, since what is now being proposed can lead to a halt to color metallurgy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u42	As for the second one, I'll start with the second one. Indeed, article 9, paragraph 8, is striking our manufacturers. And the committee is ready to consider and delete this amendment. For special economic zones. The committee considered the matter. And I was stressing in my speech, and this question was raised at a working group meeting. All these questions will be put into a separate bill that will address all the pros and cons of this bill. I want to say that no political power is against free economic zones and areas of priority development, but there is a question of the quality in which they should exist, the quality in which they should be adopted in our bill. This has been passed into a separate bill and will be considered separately. The government's mandate has been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u43	Makienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u44	In view of the fact that “Our Ukraine” has not received the floor now, in this discussion, I ask that you pass the word on to Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u46	Reverend Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, I really confirm that you have a mandate in additions and tasks to delete all tax standards into a separate bill, but this does not come with the text of the decision that your committee has taken, because the left-hand side of the proposal contains changes to tax legislation. In particular, disagreements, as spoke of by a Turkish colleague, taxes on farmers, such as bank insurance, such as taxation of free economic zones, and so forth. So the suggestions for you to remove the text and actually fulfill the commission you made. And the second. Plugins are considered when preparing for the first reading. So I didn't understand your position that you're not responsible for the meaningful part of the apps. What, then, will the Supreme Council Hall vote for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u47	Thank you. Alexander Aleksandrovich, a little clarification. There is an MP, Vladimir Makienko, who asked a question, and there is a deputy, Vladimir MacKeenko, who is on the stand to make his listeners understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u48	Well, I figured that's how Makienko handed over the powder, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u49	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Makienko passed the powder. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, you are a member of the working group that participated in the meeting of the working group, including the Committee on Budgets. The committee at its meeting considered all the proposals of the Committee on Finance, the banks, and many of them. As for your proposal, your tax standards, your removal into a separate law, and that is the government's commission we support. If these tax rules are voted before second reading and the President signs this bill, there is no problem. If the President doesn't sign and we don't vote on these bills, we'll consider them in the second reading together with the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u50	Thank you, you. Have a seat, please. My word is Mikola Janović Azarov, please. First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. You have 10 minutes to report and then 10 minutes to question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers is grateful to all national deputies, factions, and committees for making their proposals for the draft budget. Many of them were constructive, but much of them were in conflict with article 40 of the Codex Budget. The proposals for an increase in budget expenditure did not have a defined source of coverage, but they did not have proposals for a reduction in the revenue of the budget of the source of compensation for the loss. It can be said that such a situation is repeated practically every year. All the suggestions were carefully worked out. Along with the people’s deputies, the government worked hard on ways to improve the budget. We continued to meet with experts, consulted with vendors. In particular, with the involvement of farm managers and the development of ways to improve the support of the agricultural complex. The needs of the territorial budgets were re-examined. I stress that, despite the large number of proposals made by the people’s deputies of logic and the priorities of the budget, they remain unchanged. What priority tasks will be solved next year. First of all, raising social standards and living standards for citizens. In response to the strong statements made by the opponents, I would like to stress that the budget next year is completely preserved by all the social programmes that are in place this year. Expenditure on their financing increased. The pension fund and the Social Insurance Fund are formed without deficits. We have an enormous imbalance between the rate of wage growth and productivity. At the pace of increasing social commitments and the economic and budgetary realities. The nature of their origins is pre-election populist decisions aimed at economically unwarranted and financially unsecured social benefits. The previous governments have left to bear in mind the imbalance in price policy. Constantly valuable surges have rocked the economy of society. Along with increasing the social component, there is no need to lose sight of the economic balance. So it's perfectly logical to use effective mechanisms to activate economic processes in the state. This is about restoring the investment and innovation model of the economy, which is about increasing the financial capacity of the regions. We need to restore macroeconomic stability, lay the foundation for sustained and long-term economic growth, next year is going to be a transitional year of equalizing imbalances and distortions in the economy. Once again, the problems have accumulated tremendously, but they cannot be solved in one year. Therefore, the government is working hard to ensure that the priorities are provided with State support. With regard to budgetary conclusions and proposals. First of all, they're pretty balanced and they're real balanced. And secondly, they're fully agreed, because all this time, the government and the Ministry of Finance have worked closely together at all levels with the MPs. But there are still a number of problems that need to be addressed in systemic decisions, including changes to tax and social legislation, including social protection issues for civil servants and other categories of the population. I can tell you that everything is going to be the same. The current remains the creation of a single, fair, understandable pension system for all people, the elimination of the artificial imbalance in pension insurance, the introduction of the next phase of the pension reform of the accumulation system. There is a need for urgent work and submission to the Supreme Council of the State Privatisation Programme, which has not been approved since 2002. We see many problems involving local self - government. Unfortunately, for the last two years, nothing has been done with their systemic regulation. It is therefore necessary to set up a joint working group with representatives of the Supreme Council and the government to prepare draft amendments to the Budget Code by March next year. There is a need for clear and transparent spending arrangements, such as housing, drug purchases, and equipment for capital expenditure. No matter how much money is allocated, there is always little, so there is a need to establish a dependency between getting money and achieving concrete results. All of this can be done in a complex that looks at and optimizes state programs in every field by developing new, especially investment-oriented, innovation-oriented ones. There is a need to review the adoption of laws that affect the income and expenditure of the budget. It is unacceptable that they should be introduced over the years without the adoption of appropriate changes to the State Budget Act for the year in question. The existing state budget special fund needs to be maximized. There is a criticism of the need to overturn its existence. However, the trend of its use is increasing with each year. For the next year, they're 58. However unpopular this may sound, it is necessary to divide the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government, the budgetary committee in the budgetary process. Inevitable is the efforts of some of the executive authorities. We agreed with the Committee on Budgets on these issues. However, I feel that this is largely wrong. Dear members of the Budget Committee! What is the operationality of the decision-making process if the government has to agree with the budget committee for the fund-raising operation? or short-term operations on securities markets. I would like to say a few words about the positions of the government that have not found support in discussing the draft budget in the Committee on Budget and Working Group. This is especially true of rural development expenditure. The budget committee did not support the government's proposal to reverse the 20 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 for the creation of a State Social Insurance Fund. At the same time, we consider the introduction of insurance medicine to be timely. The government has proposed to increase the efficiency of state funding for science, the use of funds for fundamental research only if a positive conclusion is reached by an expert council at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Although there is still time to answer the questions, I would like to stop at some of them that are echoing from the opponents. They are largely superficial with statistical manipulation and inadequate application of comparative characteristics. The reason is not because of the lack of information. The Supreme Council had all the necessary materials. The government has provided detailed calculations and justifications for the draft budget, in two volumes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in six volumes to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. Regrettably, many opposition representatives did not take any real part in the work of the budget, but only by populist statements. Therefore, I would like to ask the people's deputies to approach the budget estimates very carefully. Without a thorough analysis, there are charges of not taking into account specific social standards in the draft budget. I would like to stress that the draft budget foresees an increase of 8 percent. There is a dissatisfaction that the pensions and expenses of the Pension Fund will be reduced. It's not true. For those who do not understand this, I will explain that since 2005, the Pension Fund’s budget has been increasing almost one and a half times. For 2007, it's over 90 billion. In addition, the phased implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War continues. For this purpose, the draft budget provides 1.1 billion dollars. In view of the previous government’s decision to increase natural gas and electricity tariffs, the draft budget includes additional aid and subsidies to the population. The amount of such a subsidy has been increased by 1.1 billion dollars or 48 percent against the current year. In the end, I'm going to say that the draft budget for next year is not simple enough and that it needs to be made as well as possible. Of course, the budget can be driven by hollow figures that are not provided with real resources. This has been the case more than once. For example, this year's budget does not fully address the real potential of the economy. As a result, it's fiscal. 9 months' income tax did not make 2.7 billion dollars. In general, there are many problems in the 2006 budget that need a quick solution. At the end of the year, we see problems in ensuring full payment of pensions for military personnel, the financial security of local budgets in connection with rising energy prices, and the payment of salaries for workers in rural and rural councils. I have a question: “Who cares about this situation? ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u52	Please add one and a half minutes to complete, two minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u53	People want real, predictable earnings. The branches need systemic projected funding. Business needs stable tax legislation. Our government has managed to stabilize the macroeconomic situation in a short period of time. In August, for the first time since the beginning of this year, the downward trend in the financial performance of enterprises was reversed compared to the previous year. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in seven months of the current year, no savings have been paid from the State Budget. Payments to citizens began with the arrival of the government of Yanukovic. In fact, the general budget of the State Budget for the loss of savings by depositors spent only 150 million dollars in 2005. It should be noted that the rest of the 500 million projected for this purpose was listed as savings on December 30, 2005, and on December 31, these funds were returned to the budget as unutilized. By October 30 of this year, 100 percent of these payments were made. In addition, in August and August, no funding for the general budget fund has been started for which no amount has been allocated, including construction, housing for military personnel. I would like to draw your attention to several programs: “Providing the development and application of Ukrainian language” – 0, “Actions to establish cultural links with the Ukrainian diaspora” – 0, “Creating, distributing national films – zero, grants by the President to young artists for the creation, implementation of creative projects – zero, release of book products under the “Ukrainian Book” program – zero. All of these programs will be funded by the end of the year. But the question is, why weren't they funded by August-month? The positive results of the government's activities include improving the confidence of international investors in Ukraine. A recent international rating agency, Fitch, has raised the rating forecast for Ukraine from stable to positive. Today, you will not vote for the draft budget, but rather for the draft conclusions and proposals for the 2007 draft budget prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. The government considers that the report can be supported as much as possible to prepare the draft budget for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u54	Please sign up for the performance, please. On the question, if you'll excuse me for asking. Ten minutes. It's muddy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u55	Please give the floor to Kovalevsky Yulia Sergeyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u56	Please, Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u57	Dear Mikola Janovich, the bill provides for a reduction in the size of the assembly from the purchase of cash-free currency from 1.3 percent to one percent. However, according to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance", the act of which is proposed to be continued in the draft law provides that it acts before the full repayment of the arrears of pensions at the expense of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In addition, government policies are aimed at reducing fiscal pressure on the economy. Is the proposal of the National Deputies taken into account for the lifting of this congregation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u58	This proposal is taken into account. And we're going to gradually cancel the entire rate of currency transactions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u59	Thank you. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u60	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Mikola Janović, Ukraine's 2007 State Budget project provides for the start of financing of a supplement for the status of our citizens as children of war. I support the start of this action, but it is foreseen at least in the project that is only at the level of financing these payments for children with disabilities. Given that the problem is extremely acute, and most of all there is speculation on this issue by the opposition representatives who have failed to comply with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to implement this supplement from the second half of 2006, I would like to propose on behalf of the committee, and I will insist that this supplement be distributed at the stage of preparing the document for second reading for all children of war on this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u61	The Government has weighed its full potential, and we have taken steps to implement this legislation. I think that, during the cadence of the Government of Yanuković, this law will be fully implemented. I have already taken note in my statement, and I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that anything can be recorded in the budget, whatever the amount, we have had such examples repeatedly in history, but if we want our economy to develop if we want people to receive full pensions, wages so as not to be stifled by price hikes, we must pursue a very balanced and budgetary policy. And that's why we're going to follow this policy with your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u62	Thank you. Poor guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u63	Dear Nikolai Janović, we are talking a lot today about the 2007 budget as a development budget, the economy demands and we generally support it. However, it would have been preferable that some provisions had not changed, in particular, the cost of the restoration of the foundations had been set at 10 per cent. And from the residual value of all the core funds. Now it's proposed to break it down into groups and then break it down into objects, and then instead of 10 percent, we get about 5-6 and some 3 percent. Nevertheless, I would like to see this situation preserved, and I would like to know your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Marković, we have agreed with both the Committee on Budget and the working group that we will put all of the tax rules, including those relating to depreciation, into a separate Act, just next week in the committees, this Act will be discussed. I hope that in a week, this law will be considered in the Supreme Council during the sessional week. I'm sorry for what you're saying. The only thing to do, together, is that you're an experienced producer and you know very well that unfortunately, amortization is often attributed to non-working core funds, to inactive core funds. Let's find a compromise solution with you that will allow us to go to accelerated depreciation for intensively up-to-date enterprises and suspend the process, let's say, lipo depreciation. Together, let us find a compromise, reasonable position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u65	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u66	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Mikola Janovich, I have a few questions for you. In particular, for several years article 6 has not worked on the priority of rural social development, which provides for compensation by the State for the cost of building rural social facilities. And the following year, even though we've been making these proposals to predict this money from the amount that he got from privatization, it's been rejected. Why so? The country’s total debt is under 2 billion dollars. People for their own money build pipelines, plumbing, schools, hospitals, and do not receive money for this. At the same time, the state does not give anything. That's the first question. Second, Appendix 11 to the next year’s budget provides for the privatization of polygraph enterprises. Most of them are profitable businesses. Also, there is a rejected proposal to exclude these companies. Why privatize the profit-generating polygraph? They've already privatized "Kuknigu" – there's no book anywhere in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u68	With regard to compensation for the construction of socio-cultural objects in the village, we will consider this position between the first and the second readings. I think we'll find the best solution. We know this subject, and we know the budget committee. So I think we'll find a solution. With regard to privatization, I will not even address this issue. We agreed that we would introduce a privatization programme into a separate law and also, together with the tax law, consider it at a meeting of the Supreme Council. That's where you and I are going to discuss whether there's any point in privatizing profitable polygraph combinations. And you will be able to take a decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u69	Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u70	Dear Mikola Janovich! I sent you a parliamentary request signed by representatives of all MP factions regarding the social guarantees of military personnel, members of the fighting and members of their families. I didn't get an answer, but today I got the results of an analysis of the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget of the Court of Auditors. And there's another confirmation of what we wrote. For example, article 140 reads: “The rules of the articles violate articles 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine” and in fact narrow down the content, rights and sufficient standard of living, the social protection of individual categories of citizens. Delete as appropriate. Article 41 is to be deleted and so on. I mean, I'm asking you very much right now. There was a round table yesterday that discussed the issue with representatives of all the power structures. Please consider this issue separately and provide answers that, pending the preservation of the social guarantees of military personnel, members of the fighting and members of their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u71	I had to answer those questions. I don't remember what we wrote to you in response to your request. But we are absolutely responsible for both you and the whole country. No social security guarantees for either military or civil servants or for other categories of citizens will be reduced by the State Budget Act. But I would like to pay attention to you and your country. and the whole country. The proportions of pensions and salaries in Ukraine have been significantly violated over the past year and a half. If the ratio between a minimum pension and a maximum of one to four is considered to be normal worldwide, we now have a ratio of one to one hundred. Let's ask our pensioners a question. Is it fair that there's 400-500 griffins out there who get a pension for 40,000 griffins? Let us ask the question only if we do not decide it by law, but whether it is fair or not. Let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u72	Let's get this over with and get it over with. One more question, and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u73	Let's ask. Let's not solve this here in the session room, but let's ask our people. It's normal that we have the ratio between minimum wage and a maximum of one hundred. It's normal that at the average wage of 1,000 bracelets, we have a salary of tens of thousands of bracelets. If our conscience as people's deputies and ours as members of the government, do we think that's normal? Let's leave this situation alone. So all the proposals that are now taken away from the draft State Budget Act have been removed. They relate only to a very small category of our citizens who have write-offs and pay-offs. So you're going to go out to those people who are standing in the square and tell them about the limitations of social security you're telling them. And listen, please, what they'll tell you. And I, when I take in pensioners and simple people, they ask me these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Janović, just one clarification. We can't just talk. We have to solve this question. And I'm going to suggest to you, for the second reading, that these standards should be introduced, that they should be limited, especially for working pensioners, and not just cloudy pensions, but then by legislation to address these issues, because those cuts that have been created over a year and a year and a half really are causing a lot of tension in society today. Please, the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko. I'm sorry, we need to call a break. I missed that moment. So you focus on the thoughts you want to express here, and we'll be back in half an hour in the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u75	We have two more minutes before the break announcement is over. Please announce in the corridors so the deputies will come to the hall. He is invited to the rostrum of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko. Please. He's got ten minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u76	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable members of the government, national deputies, and colleagues! The state budget project in its present form can be described without overstated as political and socio-economic. Leaving behind the essentially political aspect of this process, it must be acknowledged that its socio-economic emergency is characterized by the State's predominant financial capacity to meet the ever-increasing social needs and at the same time the need to ensure sustainable economic development. To be. It must be acknowledged that the country’s budget regime has lasted for the second decade and is a persistent syndrome of chronic economic disease. It has long been necessary to look at the process with a sober view without fear and horror, which is frightening to our media and to express, and the words of politicians who are known as Shota Rustaveli: “Everybody is staring at himself as a strategist who sees the battle from the side.” A major priority of fiscal policy in 2007 was set by the government to stimulate innovative investment activity and support for a domestic producer, by dramatically changing the economic development priorities of Ukraine in 2005-2006, when the main focus was on stimulating consumption, which has been shown to have failed to justify itself. Therefore, it is logical to propose to remove the distortions in the economy by changing the direction of the budget flows, putting them first, not even the growth, but the steady development of the economic infrastructure. But the change in the economic development vector should not take place at the expense of the social component of the budget in the context of the projected high otherwise. expectations. In the draft budget, the amount of social expenditure remains at the level of the current year and even increases in quantity. The issues raised in this regard in the implementation of targeted courses are financial resources, their number, efficiency and utilization. In the 2007 budget, significant amounts of mail are expected to be included in investment policy measures, but without any specific decryption of what investment projects they will be used for. The same can be said of the transition from this to the new models of economic development. There are 34 billion available. This appropriation is intended to cover To build a model for economic development. It's a minimum critical mass. But 10 billion. This appropriation is intended to They are planned to receive from the privatization of state property and the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes. As has been the case in recent years, the coming of such funds is too problematic and depends on many factors. Limited sources of innovation and investment costs require a search for new ones, we think one of them is a banking decision, not a budget loan. The role of the State in this matter should be to compensate interest rates on loans for priority tasks of economic and budgetary policy. Much depends on the effectiveness of effective tax policy. However, the problem of payment discipline, the administration of value added taxes, and a number of solutions has traditionally remained unresolved today. The availability of rules in profile laws that provide for the dependency of planned GDP allocations is estimated to be fundamentally balanced by the budget. It is estimated that only six professional laws require additional budget allocations of nearly 200 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. I am convinced that this is where the bill of parliamentary amendments and budget proposals lie. I'm not talking about conflicting legislation, some of which don't even make sense. This is particularly about the cost of using privatization costs. The impression is that governments that change, like in the kaleidoscope, deliberately do not change the Codex Budgets. But at the same time, the multibillion-dollar amount of the budget from the privatisation of the ‘Criminal’ disappeared without a trace and without a basis. And there are many such examples. There is no solution to the problem of the actual implementation of the programming and target method of cost planning of the State budget, which is the basis for effective and transparent use. However, the vast majority of the budget programmes are not properly aligned with the current state programmes, which in turn do not meet the requirements of the Law on State Targeted Programmes. Therefore, they are generally listed accounts of the need to maintain the subordinates of the principal supervisors and do no specific tasks. The 2007 budget expenditure includes 89 state-owned targeted programmes, of which only 19 are approved by the Supreme Council and should approve everything without exception. The problem of the special fund remains unresolved year after year. The coming to this fund of public income and their specific costs are in conflict with budgetary principles, endangering the implementation of important government programs. Here's one particular example. One of the most important State programs for the disposal of solid rocket fuels is provided by the State Budget special fund, and its funding depends on the arrival of congregations for environmental pollution and fines. And behind this program is a problem that transcends the possible consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Of course, financing should be done only at the expense of the general fund regardless of fines and congregations. Speaking of problems, weaknesses, budget policy calculations and in general and specifically in the draft budget, I would like to stress that their availability will objectively prevent the budget from being implemented in a transparent and efficient manner, making it impossible in social policy to manipulate public opinion at the national level. The draft budget announced an increase in the financial autonomy of local self-government through decentralization of budget management. At the same time, the process of concentration of resources in the State budget continues, the adoption of decisions on how to use them at the central level. Inter-budget transfers for 2007 under the State budget increased by 5.5 billion compared to 2006. A bracelet, and their pied weight is 1.2 percent. At the same time, the region’s own income decreased and accounted for 52.9 percent of the total income. The bill provides for very small, small, 100 million subsidies from the State Budget to local authorities to stimulate the development of regions, including depressed areas. As you can see, such costs are unlikely to help solve problems at the regional level. But unfortunately, and this is what I want to emphasize, no volumes of State budget transfers and a formal approach in the system of budgetary relations will help solve this issue. In our view, the essence of this complex multifaceted problem lies in the conceptually wrong approach to the concept of “regional policy”, the economic relationship between the centre and the regions, the substituting of the concept of “regional policy and the organization of local self-government”. And life, especially during the fall-winter period, requires eliminating the factors that inhibit the economic development of regions, increasing their financial autonomy. And the last one was the analysis of the draft law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2007. The conclusions and results of this work in the presentation of the Supreme Council to you, distinguished national deputies. In the Committee on Budgets, they are discussed in detail and included in a comparative table before the first reading. On some of them, I stopped in this report. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u77	Thank you, Valentina Konstantinovich. Have a seat, please. We are now approaching the discussion of the draft budget document, more faithfully, of the draft conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. In view of what is foreseen here, and two other decisions have been proposed by the subject-matter of the legislative initiative: one decision by Andria Shkyla regarding the abolition of the voting on the adoption of the draft on September 21st, but the point is that he submits this document in violation of many of the regulatory and substantive rules, so we simply do not consider it; and there is a draft decision by the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on its signature, in accordance with article 50 of the Rules, to grant the guaranteed right to speak for a period of at least 10 minutes to representatives of the parliamentary association “Parliamentary Opposition” in the Supreme Council during the discussion of the draft State Budget for the following year in the first, second and third readings. The point is, article 50 of the Rules is a little bit different, but we won't consider it. I'm just sort of compiling the question. The author, the leader of the faction, asks 10 minutes to perform. We've got three minutes of performances. That's why we need to follow the ad hoc procedure, because the 50th article of the Rules provides for the first part of the ad hoc vote. If Parliament agrees, I will put the matter to a vote, a draft decision, a 10 minute statement to give to Yulia Timoshenko, but that is the question that is being discussed without discussion - this is what the Rules provide. Who's in charge of giving her 10 minutes to perform, please vote. [[12:51:00]] For 184 The decision is not taken. So they're all going to be performing for 3 minutes. First, I ask the faction leaders or factions to sign up, the factions, only. Yes, now the committee heads have given notes, as stipulated by the regulations, we will give accordingly. Now, if you could just sign up for an MP who's not from the committees, he's going to speak for himself, please. Please, this has also been done. So, from the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, who's speaking to us? Julia Volodymyr, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u78	Dear friends, first of all, I would like the press and everyone who can hear me to focus on the fact that the opposition has just been denied, even, the right to a report for 10 minutes. The speech and the word were given to everyone, but the opposition was limited by three minutes, just like all the other factions -- democracy in action. And now, with regard to the draft Budget Act, it certainly cannot be adopted. It's a shameful budget, just like the government. And I'm going to give you a couple of things that I'm going to say: first, first, that the whole social part of the budget is completely destroyed. With three minutes, I have no right to speak perfectly. But first, the minimum wage and pension does not increase in that budget. The minimum wage is six months, and then just a few bracelets, which almost doesn't increase the minimum wage. Pensions remain the way they were. This is what people fought for and what they voted for. In addition, I emphasize that the state budget for the Pension Fund has been reduced by 5.3 billion in relation to last year. That means no one's going to raise those pensions. Next, I would like to point out that the real wage at the time that I was Prime Minister has increased by 20.5%, and now for 2007 only 7.9 percent is planned. In addition, there was an article that predicted that income tax would be raised from citizens from 13% to 15. And that means that every single person will certainly lose part of their wages. Next, tariffs rose, virtually, across the country. In Kiev yesterday, tariffs were raised 3.4 times. And that's not the basis of government policy. But grants to people who got on. Those who received public service subsidies are practically not budgeted. If we have double or triple-sized tariffs, we actually don't get anything at all from grants. People don't get any social assistance. The following, unfortunately, is practically impossible for us to implement the Law on the Children of War, for which Communists and Socialists have fought so hard. This once again speaks of the extent to which the social sphere is being destroyed. Similarly, nothing is set aside from the money received from privatization to increase the return.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u79	Thank you, finish the speech. Lukyanenko is the eighth one on the list of deputies, after the heads of the committees. It'll be at least an hour and a half. Then you take the word, you're done. Please have a seat. Sit down, it's over. The word is given by Paul Zebrovsky of the faction “Our Ukraine. ” Please. Please. Paul Ivanovich, speak up. I'm telling you again. Leukko Grigorovitch, you are the fifth to be written after the faction leaders. But MPs get the word after committee heads. That means that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Serbian and Calchenko committee leaders give their word to Julia Volodymyrna. She gets another 7 minutes for the show. Please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u80	I would like to stress once again that in our Parliament, led by Alexander Frost, there is not just a dictatorship, but I think that there is no parliament in a civilized Europe where opposition is deprived of words. And that's why I want to continue. I want to say that, unfortunately, all social programs, including those related to salaries and pensions, have been virtually destroyed. We now have military pensioners under our parliament. And I want to tell them that their requests are completely disregarded. Military pensioners have practically no normal pensions, and I'd like them to go to the government until it's too late. I can go on literally at every component of social expenditure, but the main thing is that we and the local budgets have been deprived of any policy with you, because everything on social issues lies on local budgets, and they don't have the funds for the necessary amount of subsidies. And that means that people will turn to local authorities, to social services, and they will have no money. Local budgets are completely balanced. All the revenues of their own local budgets on these excess incomes that will not be real are well known. Planned expenditure and this means that the imbalance of local budgets will virtually ruin all expenses except the wages paid to officials and budgetary institutions. And now for the innovation and investment essence of the budget. It's like Mikola Azarov said, this budget is completely a myth that this budget has an investment orientation. Equally, 22.3 percent of the total expenditure was in 2006 and exactly that in 2007. So there's no investment budget. And now after all the social costs were destroyed, I wanted us to move to income, to income. And first of all, it's a budget deficit. I'm pointing out to society that the budget, the budget deficit, is set at 2.6 percent. What is it? First of all, it's a debt pit of loans to the state of Ukraine for the next tens of years. If our government has reduced Ukraine's debt as a state with a $1.1 billion loan, the budget deficit of 2.6 gives an additional government debt of 8.6 billion, that means that on these debts, which will then be allocated to shadow schemes by the Party of Regions, the money for which children and grandchildren will be accounted for, including those sitting in the hall. So our nation is deliberately driving into a debt pit. Next. This has also to do with the debt pit of our nation. He preserved an article in the budget that envisions the right of the government to provide guarantees to government-owned entities on loans they will take from the side. I'm asking you to think without restrictions. This means bribes, as always, will determine businesses, these businesses will be credited, including Western banks, government guarantees, and no one will control how these funds come back and how these costs are spent. We had this situation during Azarov and Kuchma, when our state on such guarantees of state-owned enterprise accumulated up to 10 billion dollars of debt, then we couldn't find, not those who borrowed, not those who guaranteed and practically the state now took it into state debt and accounted for. That's what it means. That there could be tens, twenties, thirty billion dollars worth of guarantees that we can't find as lenders with you. What is it? This is certainly a shadow of the money laundering of the budget, for which the budget will then be responsible. Next. As much as the opposition factions did not warn, not the President, they kept shadow economic zones in the budget. What is it? This means that for some enterprises that form part of the Party of Regions, tax-free zones will be created. And if these enterprises produce the same production as other businesses in Ukraine, all other products throughout the country with them will be uncompetitive, free economic zones will be renewed, and as a result, billions of profits will not be made by children, not by lugansks, but by just two or three corporations that will be making this budget. I'm sorry, but I want to ask entrepreneurs who are sitting in the hall and I thank you that one, only one member of the Party of Regions has gained courage, literally into the microphone just to say that our color metallurgy is destroying our production. I can say that's true, because in addition to 16 taxes are imposed on our entrepreneurs, there's also a kind of gambling that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have struggled with for many years. Now the term is coming back, and the taxes are coming back. I don't want to continue to overload the psyche of a well-established coalition, but I'll tell you that if socialists and communists vote for this antisocial budget today, consider that your ideology no longer exists. And we are convinced that the President of the country will veto this budget. And we propose not to vote for this national disgrace! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u81	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. I am pleased that I too voted in favour of giving you my word because you spoke with knowledge of the matter. By the way, for help, the average budget deficit rate for EU countries is three percent. Please, Paul Ivanovich, Zebrovsky speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets and colleagues with whom the work was done in a comfortable and professional manner. However, under this budget, I would like to make those criticisms that are not included in the conclusions of the budget committee and that are needed today, if they are not taken into account, “Our Ukraine” will not vote in favour of this draft budget. First of all, it's a minimum wage. If from December 1st, $400. And since January 1, 400, the real people will receive $8. less wages. So there's a downturn from January 1st of those people who get the minimum wage. Little is planned for the minimum wage increase by 12.5 percent if inflation is real, the inflation rate with the index is real. will be at 13 percent in the next year, according to the government itself. As far as the regression of their payments is concerned. I would like to point out that the third group of disability, regressors, after 60 years of age, will not receive a regression payment. Now it's about social services. I would like to point out that civil servants are not just ministers and governors. These include economists and simple line workers who receive a minimum, low wage. So far, it's planned in this budget that neither the payments nor the recovery payments are foreseen for them, and we're actually destroying the entire public service system. Now it's about business. Mr. Skudar has already said that the budget today is 10 percent. Amortizational deductions are just underlining that only some groups will be able to determine depreciation deductions. And that's going to lead to enough, let's say, weakening businesses to upgrade their production capacities. VAT per village. To date, 12 percent of the Budget Law has not been removed, even though the government has promised to do so by law. And it's also included in the budget, which is going to be VAT accounts in electronic form. Business is becoming open to competitors, and today we understand how difficult this is going to be with business, especially small businesses. Financing grants in the country. It's only supposed to be from privatization money. I mean, according to the plantation, according to animal farming, the grant will only go out of the money that comes from privatization, and they will come, God forbid, in the third, fourth quarter. Local self - government. Today, the State Budget Act plans that local authorities, including utilities that are not budgeted, will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, such inadequacies are much and much in the Budget Law [[Unfortunately, time is running out.]] I would like to say, fellow Members of Parliament, the government will be preparing for the second reading already, not the committee, and that's why these issues will unfortunately not be taken into account. We prepared a decree to send the first reading back to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you. During the vote, the question can be determined by voting on the basis of whether to re-read it or to accept it as a basis for the first reading. He's got a word from the faction of the Party of Regions. It's got a mosquito on it. They're handing the word to Raisiy Vasilovna the Richter. Please. It is followed by Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Today, in considering the conclusions and proposals for the 2007 draft State Budget Act, I want to say that we must be as objective as possible and not politicize the issue and not consider it, in my opinion, as a contradiction or some kind of war between power and opposition. Sadly, not all politicians today had the opportunity to rethink the situation in our country and their place and role in it. And they're choosing the simplest possible and, in my opinion, the irresponsible path is the path of short-term criticism. The criticism is necessary, I'm sure. And if there are constructive suggestions and these constructive suggestions are based on what finally comes from a quality product, it is only a greeting on our part. Simple criticism is simply a distraction from all of us from our urgent needs. It should be noted that the government of the anti-crisis coalition, led by Viktor Yanukovic, has started its work in very difficult socio-economic conditions. However, we all came to appreciate very well the responsibility that came upon us, and we knew clearly what priorities to put into the 2007 State Budget project. And it is necessary to give due respect to the government, which is professionally and responsibly, I'm not afraid of that word, which has approached the formation of the 2007 budget. As a result, today you and I see an objective picture of both income and expenditure. The government budget for the next year should be a development budget, and that's why it's costing innovation and investment first. At the same time, the budget is socially responsible, that is, all social articles will be fully funded and social standards will rise. As an example, in 2007, the minimum wage is projected to increase to 450 dollars and a minimum wage to 510 dollars. The state gradually redirects resources to support the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups. This applies to helping families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children and the temporary unemployed. Can we be with you today as a party that has more support among our citizens, and as a coalition-forming party, can we be irresponsible to our citizens? No doubt we can't. And that's why our position in the 2007 draft budget is social well-being, sustainable material prosperity and economic development. The faction believes it is their duty to call on everyone to support the draft budget in the first reading and to vote in favour of the budget conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u85	Thank you. Peter Simonenko has the word from the Communist faction. He will be followed by socialists from Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u86	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank our voters for taking an active part in the discussion of our public policy, the Company, when we addressed the newspaper Kiev Gazette, the Working Gazette, the newspaper Communist to the voters to discuss our budget proposals. And we have our position, the faction of communists, which we are forming, on the basis that the voters have supported our proposals for the budget. I would like to add to some of the requirements that we have put forward for the budget. And today I am calling on the Government, calling for a minimum of four per cent of the reallocation of gross domestic product through the budget and a minimum of 20 billion gruels to be returned to the budget. This is clearly today, and it is natural to generate an income component of the budget, not by giving benefits to business representatives, but by actually starting to manage the economy. Second. I would like to ask the Government to focus its efforts on capital investments only on those facilities that should be put into service this year, i.e. the completion of the construction of schools, hospitals, if necessary, other social or housing facilities. Third. We propose to exclude privatization from the Budget Act. If anyone wants to, and we Communists are against such a policy, please consider it a separate law, but we will insist that the money that the State receives from privatization be channelled only to investment projects. Furthermore, we propose to increase funding for school meals, not on the basis of the overall income of the family, namely income per person. We propose to retain all benefits in the payment of housing. And that is what we will insist on to be realized. We also propose to limit what was discussed by limiting the maximum pension to the 12 minimum pensions, i.e. around 4,000, 4.7 thousand for all black people. We believe that, when children of war begin to exercise their powers, in addition to the basic pension for the status of children of war, we demand that payments be made not only to children of war, to persons with disabilities, but to all children of war, on second reading. We have managed to ensure that working retirees receive a full pension in 2007, which is already the result of the creative work of the working group. The faction will require both wages and full regression. We insist that the payment of savings, lost savings through the budget, be made not in the amount of 650 million dollars, but in the form of a minimum of 5 billion. Naturally, we will also insist on increasing the allocation of the youth family's housing programme to 150 million grevens. Thus, the faction believes that today everything must be done to ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers fills both the budget and objectively, fairly distributes the resources available among the various categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u87	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski has the word from the Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u88	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I had a female deputy from the BUT faction in front of me, as she always lied. It only tells people who like it, not the truth. Because what she was talking about is absolutely nothing in the budget. And I'd like one more thing. This reminds me of Huberman's words when everyone criticizes that only when he says that “a woman’s soul is perverse and often inclined to be reviled, a net in the life of a man, that is, a man, that is, a net of life.” That reminds me today. I would like to say this, my dear colleagues, that the budget committee with the government has never been more productive than in its budget. I want to say that it is now taken into account that Parliament will control the implementation of its own government in the parliamentary republic. Regarding SEZ’s, TPR’s, and so forth, we agreed that this would be passed into a separate law. There's nothing in the budget about what individual speakers have been talking about. The object of privatization is a separate law that will approve the people’s deputies by voting. Changes to the laws. It's in separate laws, not in the budget law. So the government has quite gone on to its concessions, what has been killed in our budget resolution and what should be decided by the Supreme Council. The children of war. It's our law, dear friends, we've all voted actively. I, by the way, am the author of this law. But what they've done here today is to spread it more widely – the law on children of war. We also support this thesis. It's pretty big, I'll tell you, village moves. First, the VAT is cancelled, the law is passed, and it's counted. Until the second reading, this will all be defined. Grants will be from the General Fund, not from privatization, as predicted. There's increased support. Education is an extra 5 billion. These are the computer classes -- 121 million -- and 140 million -- textbooks, and the same buses, and so on. In the absence of time, I would like some of those that need to be taken into account. First of all, the 277 amendment is the realignment of the money on the road, and we have to make the increase for the village. We have to bring in a two-percent assembly for radio frequency, and eventually build stations so that our people will listen to Ukrainian television and Ukrainian radio all over the territory. There can be no water from the underground wells of 0.4 pcs per liter used to spill alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages. It's a resource, and it has to be decided. And another thing is, by March 1st, it would have to be written that the Cabinet of Ministers has to accept all the normative documents on the use of budgetary resources so that it doesn't have to be resolved by the end of the year. And finally, the budget is never perfect, like the man's salary at home: whatever he brings to a woman is always few, right? Because needs are increasing. Let us improve, and in general I propose that the budget be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u89	As chairman, I am obliged to make a note of Alexander Petrovich’s attempt to discriminate against women in Parliament. You can't do that. And I join the wishes of Hanna Herman, who wrote the corresponding note. You don't have to do this. Representatives are now speaking from the committees. And the first is Andrew Shevchenk of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. It will be followed by Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u90	Alexander Alexander, thank you for your observation. You have deprived me of the need to respond to this subject, too, especially since the committee has not authorized me to do so. I could just say that, as a member of the Information Committee, we've been talking to colleagues here, and I'd like to protect, maybe, the government and the Budget Committee. I think they offer progressive forms of communication, such as Internet communication. I even know how to vote in this mode: via the Internet or in SMS mode, or by voting on a mobile phone. Now, if I'm serious, I'm going to keep talking about the position of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, and I'm only going to talk about the things that went through the vote on the committee by unanimous vote. I have to say that we've been offering a package of suggestions that relate to the competence of the committee, and unfortunately, all of these proposals are actually ignored. I'd say it's kind of like an information diversion. I'm going to stop at three key problems. Theme number one. In the next year's budget, this is a message for the whole country, we don't even have State TV and radio. I'm saying there's no National Television, No National Radio Company, Instead, there's one line: Derteradio. You can compare this year's budget to last year's. There were separate address lines on these television companies. Reports for journalists, for directors, for operators who work for these companies. This means that your funding will continue to be in the hands of a small group of officials. Message for the country. It's a concentration of information levers in the hands of officials again. We've got a new head, Derzteleradio. We've established it as an effective manager for all of us. And we know that, in fact, this proposal -- unify in one line -- was, appeared in the budget before its appointment. So I propose not to introduce a new Derteradio, a new head of Derteradio into temptation -- manually manage the information sphere through finance. The second position is also unanimously supported by the entire committee. We suggested that the budget provide strategically needed funds for the development of public speaking and for the creation, for the transition to digital television. Unfortunately, both in this position and in another position, we just have the receipts. These positions are not reflected in the budget. This deprives us of a successful medium, an effective information security system in the future. And the third position, which our colleague Oleg Lazko has already talked about, remains in this budget a strange proposition for us to make with a gallop, a spear, a rush to privatize 20 very important polygraph enterprises. What does this mean for the inhabitants of Dnipropetrovsk, Lviv, Harkov, Uzhgrad, Kiev, and many other cities? That you can all actually lose the press that's currently being printed on state-owned polygraph enterprises as it is in these rooms. And I don't understand why you're in such a hurry. We discussed it on the committee, expressed our position. If any member of the government is interested, this may need to be stated honestly. So finally, I'm going to say that the committee, obviously we're going to a political vote where we're going to decide to go behind the factions, but we're really looking forward to paying attention to these moments right now, and in preparing for the second, third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u91	Thank you, Andre Vitaliovich. I would ask all those who speak and representatives of all the deputies, in fact, we will have after the adoption, if we vote in the first reading today, the opportunity to take the second reading into account such proposals, as just said by Andriy Vitaliyovich and the budget administrators, the sums and so on. That's all there is to it. Sergey Anatoliyovich of the Committee, Matviyenkov of the Committee on Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, socialist faction. In recent times, so much has been said about the budget. You know, these are the comments from different sides. There's a positive, there's a negative. Sometimes you even wonder if the same budget has been read by those who comment on it because it is diametrically opposite positions on the same documents. We have worked very seriously on this bill on the committee, and we have tabled some 200 amendments. And I want to say thank you to the Government that some of them have come to us and that positive steps have been taken here, that is normal. For example, the committee met and agreed to remove the concept of a normal price. I hope that this concept will not arise in the adoption of tax laws, and we will not fight it again. We agreed that we could not make the depreciation system worse, despite what was said here, the system was left at the level of last year, and we hope that we will find further understanding and improved indicators, and we will be able to channel more funds towards depreciation. We have been accepted in view of the unfinished construction and implementation of this unfinished construction. Many of the non-disputable points that have been linked to the payment of pensions to working retirees have been removed, many social issues and normal positive steps have been taken. But there are some issues that we wanted to focus on in finalizing the budget for second reading, which we are most concerned about today. And most of all, Nikolai Janović, it's for our industry, it's the price of gas. 130 dollars and the methods that exist today in calculating the price of gas, let's just count the cost. 130 dollars on the border, once; add the SP here, two; add the transit here, three; add the VAT here, four, and we'll get about $160-170 for a thousand cubes at a normal enterprise. Of course, there are some things we do not understand here. Why don't we take away the two per cent allowance that existed before then, why we left it in the budget for second reading for the gasification of villages and so on. How did they use that money where they were going? We have not seen the system in this regard, why we are returning to this issue. Why didn't we cut the rent or pay the rent and get our own gas? After all, we must encourage the development of our own gas and mining, especially in the sea basins, especially in specific depths, where there are no available targets. Let's stimulate, let's regulate this whole thing at a price, but not a price for drama. Next moment. Let's minimize the costs of the SCPs and we must be assured today that the costs of the SCPs will be minimized. And other things. But most importantly, how will the Government regulate the mechanism for the provision of raw material for metals and chemicals? How the Antimonopoly Committee will work. How we will provide a system of price management for monopolies and how we will experience such gas prices. We can talk about this for a long time today, but if we leave the system that existed and we have the Antimonopoly Committee working in this way, monopolistic units will be enriched to this day, and we will put the whole industry down. And a little two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u93	Thank you. The presentation is given by the Sulkovsky Paul Gnatovich of the Committee on Agrarian Politics, followed by the Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u94	Sulkowski, Ravenshina. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear members of the government! Dear national deputies, present! I'd like to turn around, and today the village producers are especially watching and hearing their fate in 2007. And I really want to say that today the draft budget submitted to Parliament for first reading is clear that it is not in favour of the opposition, but a draft budget submitted to Parliament for the benefit of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. And we have to agree with that. And that's why it's not in vain from the opposition so populist, without any justice, and I would say, even more conscience to feed such populist slogans still the Ukrainian people. So in the spring, I think the more opposition there will be nothing to say at this highest rostrum in the Parliament of the Ukrainian people. In my statement, I would like to say that within the framework of the Rules, the main issues of the development of the agri-industrial complex in the light of the bill. The 2007 State Budget Project proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in support of the development of an agro-industrial complex compared to previous years is much improved, better structured, more supportive of the introduction of modern market tools, ensuring better transparency and accessibility to budget programs of most APC entities. The project provides more than $8 billion for the general fund of the APC development support budget. In contrast to the previous years, which led the so - called opposition. The cost of supporting plant and animal development increases by 79 percent. The project is designed to increase reliance on such important and effective programs as 2.5 times the cost of bank loans, risk insurance – 5 times the cost of complex agricultural techniques. And so thank you very much to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich, Mikola Janovich Azarov, who supported the bill and remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u95	Thank you, thank you. I turn to those who will speak. Talk more about budget numbers, they're more convincing to people. The word has a member of the Evening Meal from the Committee on European Integration. He will be followed by Dorosenko, Peter Alekseiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Respectable voters! Respectable media. On 25 September this year, the Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition to the traditional issues that fall within the competence of the Committee on European Integration, some comments were made at the meeting, which were sent to the Committee on Budget Affairs, namely: an increase in social protection costs, pensions, salaries for civil servants, academic workers. In addition, the Committee would like to draw attention to a separate provision of the draft budget, in particular regarding concessional taxation for some enterprises and industries. If it is adopted, circumstances may arise that adversely affect the progress of Ukraine's accession negotiations, which is our common objective. I would like to point out that the draft State budget has reduced by 2.2 million dollars the funding of the State Public Information Programme on European and Euro-Atlantic integration compared to the current year: 5.2 million grivens this year, 3 million grivens in 2007. I wish to stress that this is a matter of social and political importance for all the political parties and associations of our country. It is necessary to finance and develop a public awareness programme to explain to the population what the European Union is, what the World Trade Organization is, and to explain to every Ukrainian citizen the prospects and consequences of European integration. It is therefore necessary to increase this funding line in order for the population to understand what European integration is and why we need it. It will also support both the President and the Prime Minister. Let's move on. The members of the Committee have instructed me to stress the need for the full implementation of sections four and five of Ukraine's Transboundary Cooperation Act on the allocation of funds for cross-border cooperation in order to achieve Ukraine's shared economic development goal with the European Union and full integration into the European Union. Committee on the Elimination of
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Peter Alekseiovich Prashenko has the word. It will be followed by John Bondarczuk of the Committee on Finance and Banking Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u98	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Always in the fall, all the Ukrainian owners were horrifyingly awaiting the draft budget for the following year because it was all foreshadowed by the fundamental changes to tax legislation that created just legal horrors in the legislative field. I am confident that the alternatives to structural changes in Ukraine's economy, when tax reform is needed, are replaced by accurate, often-unsystemic changes in tax legislation today in Ukraine. That is why the Committee on Finance and Banking decided to form a working group in order to process and submit a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code to the Supreme Council within three to four months. We are confident that the absolute majority of tax rules should be laid down in this basic document. Unfortunately, in the comparative table, what you have heard today, the distinguished radio and television audiences, and the honourable deputies, from the speeches of the head of the Committee of MacKeenka, Baranowski. Matvienkova and other national MPs about the total elimination of tax rules in a separate tax law, unfortunately this is not done in fact, because the comparative table of the accounting and rejected amendments still contains 12 percent of VAT per village, Mr. Scuddar, and 10 percent of depreciation and other things that are currently destroying the tax system. So I'm saying, for the transcript of the statement by the committee heads and the first vice-premier, that they have to be removed from the comparative table and really in accordance with the draft decision in order for the government to prepare a separate tax law for the second reading. Second position. Regarding what was said in the presentations, it seems that the government began under uncomfortable social economic conditions. Uncomfortable socio-economic conditions are, Peter Mikolaiovich, 34 percent of the gross domestic product redistribution through the State budget, six percent of GDP growth, that is a huge increase in real income and so on. Therefore, I am confident that the budget for the second reading should be fundamentally different, and this budget will necessarily have to be drastically reworked while it is in government. Another alternative, another test the country will no longer endure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u99	The word is given by the National MP Bondarczuk of the Committee on Social Policy. He's been followed by Kinakh of the State Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u100	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! In view of some’s efforts to review the main financial document for the following year, I would like to ask a few rhetorical questions. How would it be better: to work with the budget, let it not be completely perfect, so to work transparently, what, by the way, was said by Comrade Zebrowski, controlling the government's activities, encouraging him to improve budgetary parameters, or allowing the government to work in manual management, because life has not stopped, so that it is not only to criticize him, to blame him for the imprudent use of budgetary resources, but also to catch up from time to time on some financial irregularities or abuses, and thus to score points according to the principle: what's worse, the better? And the second question is, why doesn't one of the critics want to say how many days a coalition government is working, and what legacy has it received from its predecessors? [[I'll remind you: there's not a hundred yet.]] Who, in particular, has provoked a sharper confrontation between Ukraine and Russia on the gas issue, which has led to an almost total increase in prices and tariffs and a deterioration in the living conditions of most compatriots? When did this increase begin? Who should we owe to by slowing down the pace of economic growth, which leads to problems with the filling of this year's budget, which is also created with significant risks? I, like our faction, will vote in favour of the adoption of the Budget for 2007 in the first reading, not expecting without reason in the preparation of the budget for the second reading of the article to be actively active and to work hard with the government and to be able to take into account a number of fundamental points. Am I pleased with the committee’s head in the quality of the budget project? Unfortunately, to a large extent, no, since of the 37 comments and suggestions sent by our committee, only 16 are counted, so we will not only insist, but also require that during the preparation of the draft budget for second reading, such principles be taken into account, which are not yet taken into account, or partially taken into account. First, removing Parts 1.2. Article 40, for it is impossible to approach the benefits as a dot that is given and then taken away. It's either there or there isn't. This is a recognition by society of the merit of certain categories of our fellow countrymen. Second, it's a question of social protection for military personnel, in general, of social security for military personnel. Where we read in article 41, we do not need to speak, for there is some nonsense when we defend the defenders. They should receive what they need. Saving benefits for children of war, taking into account proposals for civil servants' salaries, saving a reserve fund on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u101	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach has the floor. He will be followed by a committee of pensioners, veterans Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u102	Honourable National Deputies, honourable members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, invited, the State budget of Ukraine is essentially a small financial Constitution that should reflect the interests of the whole of society and the state, and create conditions for increasing the competitiveness of the economy, the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. And at all stages of consideration and adoption, the requirements of the Constitution, the Code of Budgets, the rules of procedure should be strictly observed. I would particularly like to point out this because you started the budget process with a severe violation of the stated rules. It's very important that I don't, I'm totally supporting this, this chaotic, unsympathetic state of affairs when it changes through the State Tax Budget and Social Legislation Act. This should be separate in the form of separate bills. And I am grateful to the working group that supports this position. It's very important and we insist, it has a direct bearing on Ukraine's national security, the ability of the state to take global processes into account in the world, in view of the fact that phenomena such as international terrorism, illegal migration, technological developments are already transnational. In the context of preparation for the WTO entry, which means an even higher level of competition, especially in the internal markets, an increase in energy prices, a substantial direction in the budget must be directed and provided with resources to strengthen energy conservation policies, energy efficiency, innovation and investment policies based on the priorities of the state, I stress, not individual political forces. We've made a proposal to the budget committee, and we're going to insist, I'm particularly stressing this, to focus on the development of the missile and space sector, especially on the execution of the relevant national programme, the Ukrainian Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, which is a very important factor in national security in terms of increasing global competition in the world. There is a real threat that Ukraine will become a space, a working material to compete for the superpowers for economic and political space. These issues have high national significance and must be taken into account. In our view, we need to give serious attention to the social protection of military personnel, veterans, warlords, and members of their families. This is a separate discussion, I think it will continue at all stages of the budget review, and balanced decisions will be made. In doing so, my dear colleagues, I urge you to accept the State Budget as a document that defines the interests of the State, and it should be independent of the political color of each faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u103	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Cibenko has Peter Stepanovich of the Committee on Veterans. He will be followed by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to begin with the official presentation of the Ukraine State Budget 2007 project in the Supreme Council Hall. The factions that were part of the antichrist coalition, after making many remarks on the project, nevertheless voted in favour of accepting it. We have come from the fact that, together with the efforts of Ukrainian national deputies, we will be able to improve this document more quickly. Time confirmed that this approach justified itself. I just want to say some of the things that are in the committee's knowledge. 116 articles of the project were deleted, which limited the amount of pensions for working retirees. The second part of 108 of this article has been deleted, a very important part of this project. A revised edition of article 40 of the National Budget of Ukraine project, and this list could be continued. But I will probably do the right thing by stressing the issues that need to be addressed in the process of preparing for second reading and on which the committee will insist. First of all, I'd like to say that we need to look for funds to increase the basic employment pension more actively. Since the previous government has driven prices and tariffs to such an extent that, of course, this now seems inadequate. Secondly, I would like to stress once again that the standard of payment, the basic pension for the status of children of war must be extended not only to children of war of disabled persons, as foreseen in the current project, but to all children of disabled persons. I am absolutely convinced that this will be the right thing to do. I would like to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons will certainly insist on taking into account the second reading of the problem of regression payments for those who are entitled to them by law. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the nature of these payments is a measure of loss or compensation for lost health. And of course they can't be mixed with any other payments. I would like to draw the attention of representatives of the Committee on Budgets and particularly the heads of the Committee on Budgets to the fact that the Committee on Budgets, in principle, supported the decision on land benefits for enterprises, public organizations of persons with disabilities, but that decision, however, did not exactly correct it. In general, I would like to say that I am absolutely convinced that the process of improving this document will continue until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u105	Thank you. The word is given by Deputy Vladimir Yavorowski of the Committee on Culture. We'll follow him, sorry, Tikhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, national MPs, distinguished voters, first of all, I would like to say that if you didn't bring God, even from the opposition, one of the men said something similar to the woman you heard here, I would call it, personally, an unlimited public homage and nothing else. I want to say what I said to Jezhi. For that matter, a brilliant Polish humorist. A real man can be seen even when he is completely naked. Thank you. Now let's do it. Too bad there is no Mikli Janović, but when he presented the budget to the committee heads, and when we started talking about the cultural chapter, I really liked it when he said clearly: “We don’t have professionals in the Ministry of Finance for Culture, we entrust you with, please, within the limits of what is available, without going too far beyond their scope, please do what you think is necessary.” This is what we did at the committee meeting. We looked, and we were circumcised in Powlowski, who was taking almost half the budget that applied to the school. We've offered 13 million dollars, I repeat, dollars taken to sustain forest farming and hunting, 13 million dollars. Guys, don't be fat. What, the beasts will eat the millions that are taken there? We offered 40 with a hook there to transport millions of officials to Ukraine. Excuse me, we have three high-ranking officers: the head of the Supreme Council, the head of the government, and the president. And the President has his own money. Where are you going to fly, I want to ask, for this huge money? It's at a time when Ukrainian culture can barely hold on, it's barely belly today. Look, we don't have any movies at all today. And recently, the government, in fact, I'm convinced that this is from their submission, and the court annulled the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to duplicate films from Russian to Ukrainian. So we're not going to have any Ukrainian movies at all. And what I'm saying is that today there's been a pitiful waste of just the money for the literary and artistic magazines that there is. Because, please, Mikola Janović, while you were gone, I quoted what you said, please, re-examine, look on the committee, we have different powers, because what we're taking is, let's say, creative associations of 6 million. At the opera house of Odessa 53 million But they'll never master 53 million, it'll all be stolen. Listen, please. I'm talking to you, too, and we're offering a very normal solution to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u107	Thank you. Let us support the second reading, I will also support creative associations, and especially the magazines that should be published with the help of the State should do so. And with regard to the theater, we still have to finish the renovation, how many years can we take with repairs? Please, Tikhov is speaking to Viktor Mikolayovich of the State Building Committee, and he will be followed by Bacheviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u108	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Mikolo Janovich, national deputies and invited! On September 27, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government discussed in detail the 2007 draft State Budget in the first place, in the area of local budgeting. The committee carried out considerable work with the Budget Committee, Minfin, and local self - government agencies from all regions and their associations. Thanks to this dialogue, we have been able to come up with a large number of proposals that our committee passed on to the Committee on Budget Questions in due time. I cannot help but say that the discussion of the bill as it had been in the past and in the past has been difficult and has often raised critical remarks to individual positions and indicators. Among the main proposals of the committee were: - to increase the overall volume of inter-budget transfers to ensure the execution of delegated powers to local self-government and preferably on the basis of social standards; - delete paragraph 38 from article 76 on the termination of the separate articles of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities in order to prevent a deterioration in the conditions of payment of work in self-government bodies, as well as paragraphs 57 of this article on the cessation of separate articles of the Law on Local Self-Government concerning the establishment of the number and states of the Apparatus and the execution of council bodies. The committee also insisted on leaving funding to local police authorities from the state budget for a period up to the legislative level of issues related to local police administration mechanisms and many other issues. Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! We have heard and will hear the criticism of this bill over and over again, especially from those who, over the years 2005-2006, have actually stopped GDP growth dynamics and by their populist decisions have created conditions for the fiscal deficit of debt accumulation. These woes of prime ministers and their governments have been completely deservedly retired for their inactivity and, by the way, not by the anti-crisis coalition, but by the President of Ukraine. These critics did not realize that it is far more difficult to manage the economy than to skate or promise milk rivers. Nor should it be forgotten that five - month deals with the formation of an orange coalition have made the situation even more difficult and have led the current government to make the bill extremely tight. Despite this, today we have been given real-based budgetary indicators that boost optimism and confidence that the anti-crisis coalition can not only stabilize the economic situation but also bring it to a dynamically positive development. It was also a pleasure to hear from the main reporters, who largely took into account the suggestions made by our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u109	Finish it. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u110	Ten seconds. And to conclude, let me stress this: a comprehensive analysis of the State Budget project shows that the government has taken a progressive path towards decentralization of budgetary management, including the transfer of individual government functions, corresponding funds from the centre to the local budget level, which will increase their autonomy and ability. The analysis also shows that for the first time in 2007, there is a strong investment element in local budgets. So let me express our support for the bill in the first reading and express our hope of wishing that, at the time of preparing it for the second reading, we can work together to improve its individual discussion indicators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u111	Thank you, sit down. Thank you. I ask all honourable deputies to listen to my suggestion. We spent about 60 minutes discussing time. There are seven other committee heads who have not spoken. So I'm asking you to give them a chance to say it first. Secondly, the right vested in me by the Rules, I can continue the sessions in 15 minutes. And that's just enough for all the committee heads to express themselves. And then we'll make the decision, we'll take the risk. No objections? Since this proposal is within the existing procedure provided for in the Rules, I do not put it to the vote. The word is given by Bachelor’s Tetjana Dmitrovna of the Health Committee. Please. She's going to be followed by Saintenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u112	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished members of the Government! Dear colleagues! We all need to remember our future, our nation's health. This is our future. There are a lot of complaints about Ukrainian medicine. And if we don't take into account the health problems with you, in a few years, there will be nothing left of our medicine. We have reached the point where our doctors are unable to provide timely quality medical care due to the lack of appropriate medical equipment and medication. Medical work is one of the most paid and respected in the world, don't we? The increase in wages for medical personnel has been a challenge for the past ten years. We understand that, in order to implement a single tariff network in the entire budget area, it may be a difficult task for the budget, as it requires about 10 billion bracelets. The budget already provides for a two-stage increase by the Government on the basis of a single tariff network. Our Government is facing the challenge of financing health programmes. And I would like to say that the Government has indeed actively undertaken programmes to ensure that every Ukrainian citizen is provided with adequate medical protection. Clearly, this problem cannot be solved in one year, but it needs to be solved and there is a positive solution. The draft State budget for Ukraine for 2007 provides for the provision of 22 billion grevens to the health sector under the consolidated budget and 16,9 billion grevens in 2006. The budget will address the more pressing health problems. Increased funding will be for immunoprophylaxis, tuberculosis control, HIV, oncosa, oncosa, child and reproductive health. For the first time, the Government has allocated money for the treatment of neurological patients and for the cardiovascular disease programme. Two thousand million grevens are scheduled to be allocated for centralized equipment next year and 70 million for this year. Since 1998, all of us respected colleagues know that there are personal contributions to what is said to be a gamma knife in Ukraine, it must be. It's the treatment of over 2,000 of our children. The Government was able to find the necessary resources, and the draft budget already had the money. Among the urgent priorities is the transition to a health-care budget model. The Committee supports the draft budget on first reading 2007. And please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u113	Thank you. Sanchenko of the Privatization Supervisory Commission is speaking. Ephraim will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u114	Sánchenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I come from Crimea, a region that has voted mainly for the Party of the Regions. But it seems to me that this budget will deprive the Crimean who voted for this party of the last illusions. People were waiting for measures to stimulate the economy. What did they get in return? They received systemic tax pressure on business in the form of the 16 articles that, in fact, embody this pressure. [[This is the first one.]] Second. In response to the expectations of economic stimulus, preferences were received for individual business clans, and this did not warm our voters or promote the economy. The electorate has not yet felt it in figures. I can remember, and then everyone, when they get a receipt to pay utility bills, will feel it on the family budget. Thus, all the expectations of this money to restore the free economic zones provided for in article 9 are calculated by a figure of two billion bracelets. The negatives are estimated to range from 12 billion to 24 billion. I mean. This indicates that they had re-entered the electorate's pocket, had re-entered the country's pocket to promote the development of their own business. You know, here's the problem with free economic zones, they're not foreign to Crimea. In addition to that free zone in the north of Crimea, we had for a long time illegal free economic zones, created at the time in the 1990s by President Kuchma's decree, when the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council and the President's Administration liberated all kinds of customs payments, taxes and so on. In those years, up to 70 per cent of the country's alcohol and tobacco imports into the country were made through one hospital, which now belongs to Parliament. That's what a free economic zone is and how it worked for the economy. You know, when they say that we're doing this -- free zones, we're creating some growth points, I'm saying that we're only creating voltage nodes, those nodes that start with economic corrosion and those nodes that actually begin to destroy. I think that, if the Government wished, it was possible to promote business as a whole throughout the country by at least changing the depreciation policy. When it was said today that it was worth keeping the order in place, I simply view it as a mockery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u115	This is by Eframov Alexander Sergiyovich of the Committee on Rules of Procedure. He will be followed by Chubarov of the Committee on National Minorities. So I realized that the head of the Player faction signed an offer on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u116	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the Government, colleague! The Regulatory Committee is primarily responsible for ensuring the activities of the people's deputies and creating the necessary conditions for doing so. One element of this is the financing of parliamentary activities. On October 20th, you and I adopted the cost of parliamentary activities with the activities of the Supreme Council. Like other financial actors, we have worked with colleagues from the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Finance to ensure that the State budget takes into account the costs of ensuring our functional responsibilities with you. At the same time, we realized that the budget was not disproportionate and tried to fit into the funding framework for this year. It should be noted that the absolute majority of the resource provisions were reflected in the draft State budget. A number of comments can be accepted, as we cannot claim special conditions with regard to other actors. However, the issues identified by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, article 76, paragraph 36 and article 121, on how to finance the costs of parliamentary activities and the remuneration of assistant consultants remained unresolved. On second reading, we would like to take into account the proposals on this issue, which is the cost of the Supreme Council. The budget will be approved in the first reading. I also consider it necessary to draw the attention of colleagues, which requires a positive assessment of the Government's desire to reduce the fiscal burden on the State's economy to 30.3 per cent of GDP. And deductions from the profit of government enterprises from 50 to 15 per cent. Data, along with other budgeted provisions aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability, will certainly increase the rate of economic growth and improve the investment attractiveness of the State on the one hand. And based on this, it's real, not populist, budget socialization, but something else. It should also be noted that, in a relatively short period of time, the budget committee and the Government were able to remove certain provisions from the draft budget that had led to a heated debate in society. In summary, I believe it is appropriate to support the 2007 State budget on first reading and the issues that still exist without hysterics and screams to be further elaborated on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u117	Thank you. The word is given to Rifat Chubarov by the Committee on National Minorities, followed by Adventure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u118	The honourable head, the honourable voters, the Committee on Human Rights, the national minorities, the international relations, is working on the draft budget, first of all, in terms of protecting the rights of fundamental human rights, as well as addressing the consequences of totalitarian crimes. Especially. Addressing issues related to the return and establishment of the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities deported by national status. During the discussion, members of the committee stressed that if the bill was adopted, the proposed amendment threatened to violate human rights as a result of the suspension of individual rules of the applicable Ukrainian laws, pay, social security, guarantees and compensations that citizens were using in accordance with those laws. Now, and in the absence of time, I will carefully stop and some comments from the committee, which were sent in due time to the committee and the government. When we received the updated budget text yesterday afternoon, we were surprised to note that our comments were not yet included in the text, but only marked by a formal footnote: “Partly counted, the Cabinet’s mission”. Thus, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations insists on the adoption of such observations as the provision of increased funding for actions and programmes to assist refugees up to 13 million dollars. Reviewed funding of the budget for action on national minority culture and financial support for newspapers in national minority languages, increasing them to 4 million 395,000 dollars, including for the publication of newspapers in national minority languages by 620,000 dollars. In our comments, we especially insist on the government’s execution of all the previous decisions regarding the return and placement of Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities who have been deported from Ukraine. We can't agree with the fact that the new budget doesn't take into account our requirement to include 82 million dollars, as suggested in the government's decision, the government's decision in May of this year. And now we only have 44 million dollars in the proposed budget. You know, we're surprised that against our proposals there's such a saying, I've already talked about this, "the services of the Cabinet of Ministers." We don't understand what else the Cabinet of Ministers has to do when there was a previous decision. Our proposals also touch on the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, as well as on the proper financing of the activities of the authorized Supreme Council with human rights, and we are invited to include an additional amount of 12.5 million dollars in the budget. [[on implementation]] What I'd like to say is that after we got this budget, we couldn't, we couldn't just do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u119	Thank you. The Transport Committee is represented by Alexander Vasilovich Galunenko instead of the announced Prigotsky and will be followed by Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u120	Alexander Galunenko, head of the aviation subcommittee, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The Transport Liaison Committee reviewed and supported the budget for 2007. Public funding is needed for all industries without exception. Aviation is one of the few sectors of our economy, which is a system-based, highly scientific, high-tech industry in Ukraine. It is in this sector that Ukraine can claim a decent place. And this example of our mind, our work of our fellow countrymen, was created by the masterpieces of the aircraft, such as Ruslan, Mrija, An-70. The situation on the world aviation market has become such that Ukrainian air travel for the first time in all years of independence can become the leading industry of the economy. The occurrence of circumstances could quickly lead the industry to a qualitatively new orbit. Both Ukraine and Russia appear to be able to be included in the upcoming European Aviation Gap project, which aims to strengthen the position of European producers in competing with US partners. The main players, as you know, on the world aviation market are Boeing and EADS. The work of European producers has recently been poor. Boeing’s main competitor has won the prize. In this situation, European aviation giants have taken on the leadership of countries who believe that Ukrainian and Russian producers would be as fresh as blood, able to restore Europeans to a position on the world market. Europeans have problems not only with money, but with scientific and technical personnel. In this sense, experts say that the pearl of Ukraine is the design bureau of Antonova. Experts believe that it is the European giant’s problem that is the opportunity for Ukrainian airmen. In this sense, the Government project prepared by the State budget for 2007 is aimed not only at maintaining high levels but also at developing productive capacities, taking into account innovative and high technologies. Overall, 760 million bracelets have been allocated to aircraft development, 2 and a half times that of the previous year and 7 times that of 2005. Through the 2007 budget, the Government had, of course, taken the first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u121	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Vasilovich. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko of the Committee on Youth Policy has the floor. He'll be followed by Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I would like with such good advice from the former Minister of the APC, Mr. Baraniwski, that I think you can experience the fame of Ukrainian Lieutenant Rzewski very quickly, but it's hard to get rid of it. As far as I know, Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian culture have never been popular with women. I would like the dignity of the man and the dignity of most of the men in this Parliament to be the norm of our lives, and the drumsticks have to be told elsewhere. Our committee has been looking at the budget and believes that many of the things that we said have been able to contribute to this budget. I am pleased that under pressure from both our faction and other political forces, working pensioners will have the opportunity to receive a full pension. And it's the merit of both our faction and the many politicians who have spoken. I am happy that at the time of the birth of the child, there will be no gathering of help, as the government suggested when it wanted to improve this system. I realized that the hospital would pay us after 30 days, not as the government had suggested. The only thing I didn't understand was why nobody here had to raise the question that maybe a minimum pension, a minimum wage, and a minimum of living, because the price of living is rising, the level of inflation is rising, and, obviously, the government, including, is sad about it. I think that this budget that the Party of Regions accepts is a test for this party in terms of respect for all regions. Because when I looked at the district budgets, it seemed that the colors or partyness of the district managers were taken into account. I would like them to forget the party membership of the district leaders and come out of the fact that Ukrainian citizens all over the country live. Which, for example, in the Montenegrin region is 20 million in border areas, because Romania has been living in the European Union since January 1st, and our torn barbed wire will not be a good signal to European countries, and obviously we need to allocate the funds to the Montenegrin region as well, and we need to allocate the funds to all areas that are not headed by the Party of Regions. I think we should forget about this thing called "political lobbyism" when a national MP, who is, for example, the honorable president of the National Law Academy, asks for 15 million bracelets for a dormitory of his academy, it's called corruption and political lobbyism in normal countries. We should certainly ask for other institutions, in this mission, for us as deputies, not for money for our businesses or for our institutions. I'd like all of the government's subsidies to take a good look at and bring out all the corruption or lobbying things that are present in this budget. I am convinced that budget work is extremely large and I would like the government to start doing this radical work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u123	Thank you. One minute, Katerina Simeonovna. Now we have to solve one question, because we're out of 14/16, I can't go on. I propose this algorithm. Give Catherine Semenovni and Onichtuk a chance to speak as representatives of the committees. Then let the head of the Budget Committee be able to speak and make decisions. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[14:16:56]] For 248 To help me out, there were 56 other deputies, besides those who had already spoken. Please sit down, then we'll make a decision. You're convincing me that this is an important question, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u124	I want to. Oleg, don't bother me. I want to stop at suggestions that have not come to the conclusion or that contain contradictions. But for the sake of justice, I would like to point out that most of the proposals made by the Committee on Science and Education have been reflected in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. But I'll make a note. First. I am asking Mikola Janović Azarov to implement the current legislation on financing a single line of higher education institutions, as they have a “national” status. This is the National University of Kiev, the National Aviation University, the National Academy of Law, Jaroslav the Wise and the Branch Academy. You need to fix Phinehas' volunteerism, and I've been addressing you with this proposal. We'd like to be more clear about the capital deposits. In my opinion, it was necessary to conduct an audit, especially in terms of education, how many buildings we have, what its willingness not to finance, and then what it is to finance under politicians, and then what it is to do is to put money in, and that's where 80-90 percent is willing. Next. Article 39 of the budget establishes the amount of public budget expenditure to be directed towards the implementation of Article 57 of the Education Act concerning public service debts. And for these purposes, targeted subsidies are available over this local budget. That's very good. At the same time, however, article 76, paragraph 44, of the bill on the suspension of the same law for 2007, and these proposals were made by almost all factions. We need to see why such inadequacies have arisen. Next. Article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine is addressed in the proposals provided for in article 40 concerning the imposition of restrictions on the provision of free housing, heating, and lighting for teaching workers in rural areas. I've already given examples that more than 60 percent of rural teachers are pensioners. How are we going to get young people to work in the village? And I wanted to say, of course, that we need to do everything we can to implement the scientific funding legislation of 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to determine the time at which it is necessary to move from the current 0.4 percent. Therefore it is those who sit in the forelock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u125	Thank you. Thank you. The word is given to Mikoli Onichuku of the Justice Committee. He will be followed by Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u126	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Dear government! Traditionally vulnerable to each budget, without exception, and the 2007 budget project is a question, a cluster of issues related to the financing of the judiciary as a separate branch of government. Especially when it comes to financing the maintenance of the courts and the grasslands of district courts, especially in rural areas. And here, unfortunately, we find a clear lack of attention both to Parliament and to the government as the subject of the legislative initiative when it comes to legislation such as the draft state budget. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the Justice Committee three times, I stress, with the participation of the leaders of all the judicial jurisdictions of the State Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court, the High Council of Justice, analysed the current draft budget and made consolidated proposals to the budgetary committee on this issue. We must give due consideration to the budget committee, and the government will respond with consideration to these proposals, and that the least positive focus on the state of funding for the judicial system is what we feel. It would be desirable that this direction, and it is reflected in the comparative table as partly taken into account, and what is the government’s mandate, be adopted in the second reading regime according to the possibilities of the State and the obligations that Parliament has, particularly when it comes to the proper financing of the judicial system. I would also like to say that, especially with regard to the judges and the devices that provide their activities, the issues raised, I have already been told by colleagues about the reduction in the level of social guarantees for the maintenance and activities of the courts, including the retention of judges when they retire. Thus, under the continued cooperation of the budgetary committee, the Justice and Government Committee, we have the opportunity to get to the proper level of funding of the judiciary, at least by addressing the most painful issues that are before us today, once again, is the problem of providing courts, especially district courts, district courts with adequate facilities in the villages, so that they may not only look decent and be able to bring justice to the proper and that is in line with the interests of citizens, equal. In view of this, it seems that the committee will continue this work, defending the interests of those who turn to the courts and who seek the truth there, who seek justice there, and who must find it there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u127	Thank you. There were 23 national deputies discussing reports and speeches by the minister and the head of the Court of Auditors. The word is given for the conclusion of Vladimir MacKeenka, head of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear Mikolo Janovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 41 of the Budget Code, decisions on the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee to the draft State Budget Act 2007 are considered to have been adopted in the first reading. This document is a concentrated expression of the National Deputies' proposals taken into account in the comparative table, which, together with the budgetary conclusions, is sent to the government for consideration in the drafting of the State Budget Act 2007 until the second reading. Taking into account the questions, I note that the approved articles on general income, expenditure, government budget deficit and indicators in the corresponding supplements are a second reading procedure for adopting the bill. All proposals to Appendix three, four, and five relating to the expenditure figures for the part of the budget, as well as six and seven relating to the budget transfers, were not discussed in detail at this stage of the bill’s passage. And the committee decided to give the government a mandate after the first reading to process them carefully with a view to returning to the second reading to the consideration of specific indicators. With regard to the elimination of tax rules, regulations on taxation of farmers and on free economic zones, the committee left them in the text of the bill because simply removing such laws as proposed by the national deputies would disrupt the budget balance. At the same time, the government's mandate is to submit separate bills on the relevant issues before the second reading, and to adjust the revenue and expenditure figures accordingly. In addition, we delete article 9, paragraph 8, of the draft law and clarify the budgetary conclusions when preparing the document for signature. I would like to stress that this has been the case in the National Deputies, which in 2006 and 2007 will save the mothers of the newborns an amount of 8.5 thousand. That's right. The hospital’s 30 - day limit was lifted. In general, the increase in social protection in the budget is projected at eight percent compared to the previous year. With this in mind, please support the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budget Issues and allow the Cabinet of Ministers to give a productive consideration to all proposals made by the National Deputies, which have also been made in this room today, and by 20 November to submit a second reading draft of the State Budget Act for the following year and in the package with it are included in the Bills. [[By November 20, I repeat.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m0.u129	Thank you, sit down, please. In summarizing the discussion, I want to say that, not the first year in which I am involved in the budget review, I am expressing my opinion not only of my own but also of the deputies represented on the budget committee and in the factions, they were working constructively, in harmony, and the fact that they were working together with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the government, in particular the Ministry of Finance. This is, I think, a positive feature of the work on the budget now. You have a draft decision on your hands, and I'm going to sound it, this project. Please read: “After hearing a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: firstly, to endorse the conclusions and proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters for the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2007 as the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; secondly, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine to finalize the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2007 taking into account the approved budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than 20 November 2006.” [[they're added to the twenty-one page on this determination.]] And I'd like to propose separately. My mandate is to create a task force to work on the budget, and it also has to work on this deadline to take into account all proposals made by deputies, factions, committees and, of course, to make a quality document for the final consideration of the Supreme Council when it is discussed in an article. I'm betting on the vote on this motion for a ruling. Please. In general, as the rulings of the Supreme Council. [[2:29:05]] For 256 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 8, “Our Ukraine” – 11, Socialists – 28, Communists – 21, non-fractional – three. There's a break until 4:00.
