ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u1	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, we register. [[16:00:40]] There are 427 national deputies registered in the session hall, more specifically the National Deputies Card. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, registration numbers 2101 and 2101-1. [[on alcohol rates]] Please, Tsushko Vasil Petrovich, prepare Teryochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! I co-sponsored a bill that was actually prepared by customs and industry workers who were engaged in horse production in Ukraine. The essence of the bill is very simple. We have a liquor import duty today. Please bear in mind that this is a commodity that is imported and then kept at our place, on our plant in oak barrels. Then it spills, depending on the time frame, from the age of the horse's spirit and the brand they issue. We used to have a 7-euro standard for imports of one liter of cognac alcohol. I would like to inform you that during the entire period of this law, no brandy spirit has been imported into Ukraine, Ukraine. I mean, it's very clear that 7 euros. What's going on here? After our two neighbours and the Republics of Moldova and Georgia joined the WTO, and we still have a free trade treaty with them, as well as with Azerbaijan and Armenia, these countries have become practically transit countries through which brandy alcohol is brought to us. Why did we go for 2.5 euros? More specifically, the charge of 2.5 euros. These two and a half euros are also disputed for another simple reason that the protocol is signed by Euro0.6. Well, on your way to the SOT. And if we harmonise, we'll have to, you see, take that moment into account in the second reading. And they went out for 2.5 euros on the basis that our businesses are paying our neighbours today, as I told you, about one and a half euros. This is the cost of transiting this brandy alcohol. The situation is therefore very simple. If we want this money to come into our budget, and the quality certificates come directly from those countries that sell to us, not through the mediator, we need to adopt this bill. If not, horse alcohol will be imported through cunning schemes, through our brotherly four nations. That's the whole point of the bill. Why do I propose to receive it on first reading? Well, two moments. First. After all, take into account the protocols signed with the SOT. And second moment. Two bills have been tabled for consideration today. A bill has been submitted by colleague Terehina. He's offering 11 euros with something. But it's Sergei Anatolyevich. I understand you want to play or you just want to put out an alternative, otherwise you can't explain it, but it's his right. That's why my report is over. I beg your pardon. The Committee supported it. The Cabinet of Ministers has supported it, but the Cabinet of Ministers has not yet established a customs tariff board. She'll only be this week. And according to the Customs Tariff Act, the Cabinet of Ministers should draw conclusions. But they wrote that there was still a need for consideration on the Customs Tariff Board. Maybe that's why you have to take it on first reading to get through that procedure before the second reading, so no one can say they broke something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u4	Maybe some questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u5	No, no. It's easy to work on the Regulatory Committee. He is well aware of the Rules that there are no brief questions. Yes, please, Sergey Teryochina, I can't see. Yeah, we'll talk about it? No one insists on discussing it? None. Then let's vote. I'm making a proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending Ukraine's customs tariff on alcohol bets. Registration number 2101. Author of the initiative Tsuko Vasil Petrovich. Please vote. [[16:05:53]] For 251 Thank you. The Law was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental is under consideration. [[on water, heat and water supplies]] Registration number 200. The author of the legislative initiative, our colleague, Kucherenko, Alexei Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u6	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the three authors of the bill, Alexy Kucherenko, Petrosov and Semenyuk. [[“Our Ukraine”]] [[region fraction]] [[faction at the time, at the time of the Socialist Party]] What are we talking about? I would like not to waste your time, the explanatory note has been given to you and the materials of the two bills, and they have the title "To Change the Law of Ukraine on State and Municipal Property Rental" and on Concessions. The point is that at the time when the Housing and Utilities Reform Program was adopted in 2004, it envisaged the adoption of the Law on Renting and Concession of Water and Heating Enterprises. We all understand very well that, on the one hand, the housing sector needs investment, i.e. the arrival of a private investor, but on the other hand, we have to do everything we can to ensure that society and the community understand who has come to manage or own this property, on which the principles that it will be responsible for the community. Of course, everything needs to be done to make sure that when signing concession contracts, leases, territorial communities and budgets get the money that they could actually get. Unfortunately, the practice that has developed in recent years shows that this process is unbiased, and I would like to give you such examples. In 2003, an agreement was made on the 49-year lease of the Odessavodokanala, and no investment commitments are made. To this day, the new authorities are trying to break this covenant, but they cannot. Today, the same attempt is made with regard to the Harkowl, the Dnipropetroval, and we cannot claim that the investor who really needs society is coming. So, for example, according to Harkovokokanal – an enterprise that today claims to make a deal has a very negative trace of the Russian Federation, this is Rosvodokanal and the cases that the Attorney General's Office of Russia is leading against this company, what danger is there today, and what would we like to draw your attention to? In view of the very difficult financial situation of the water - heating companies, the tariff crisis that took place this year is a reason to expect structures and their gas resources to enter these enterprises, and they offer to rent them under conditions that simply do not allow communities to refuse them. This danger is absolutely real, and more than that, we can stand with you six months later before the fact that this Law will no longer have to be adopted, because everything will be distributed as it was in its time, in the 98th, 99th years, literally after the same, under the same terms as the so-called corruption, about, so-called, investment unattractiveness, were given to enterprises as significant as the Oglenergo, which we then and society all realized is that it costs hundreds of millions and billions of dollars. Unfortunately, they've been handed over, I don't know, for a penny. That's why I'm asking my co-authors to support these bills, and we're hoping for your understanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, head of the Economic Policy Committee Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich, Chechtov, please. Chechtov from the committee, Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on 4 October 2006, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rent. The bill proposes to complement the list of state and municipal property entities that cannot be leased as a whole by the complexes of utilities and their structural units operating centralized water, heating and water supply, with the aim of preventing abuses in this area. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that it is necessary to reconcile the bill with the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010, paragraph 4 of which provides that the source of funding for the activities of the programme is the involvement of foreign investment and of the costs of natural and legal persons through, inter alia, the transfer of objects of this sector to rent. In the management’s view, the project can only be taken as a basis for taking into account this and other comments and suggestions made. In fact, it means that only one of these laws can have full legislative power -- or the project that we are considering today -- or the law on a state-wide programme for the reform and development of housing and utilities. As we considered the bill, our committee appreciated the appropriateness of its adoption from an economic point of view. After a lively discussion, the committee concluded that in the event of a ban on the transfer of water, heat, and water supplies to leases, territorial communities were losing the ability to invest in the technical resupply of appropriate municipal systems. In this regard, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, registration number 2001 to be rejected. [[on water, heat and water supplies]] People's deputies, please support the committee's position. The position of the committee coincides with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u9	Thank you, sit down, please. Although I think everyone understands and knows that there will always be a law that was passed later, so it doesn't matter that there is a law. If we accepted, there would be a standard of what we accept today. Yes, please, I see those who want to sign up. Who's "for" who's "against" is a green, red button. Please press the factions. Yes, dear colleagues, they only signed up. Well, I can't see Yushchenka. And the faction has the right to speak. Please, Bondar. Get ready for the Serbians.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to pay attention first to the faction of the Socialists that Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, co-author of this bill, was headed by the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Perhaps she knows the problems of renting and the concession of heating facilities. And I asked the Supreme Council for a temporary moratorium on the rental and concession of such objects. I propose not to reject this bill, to adopt it in the first reading. As head of the Committee on Economic Policy and the faction representative, I have an agreement with the drafter of the bill that he will take into account such two comments in the second reading. First. Let us establish a moratorium not more than a year before the adoption of appropriate legislative changes that will regulate the rental and concession of suitable objects. And a second observation. That this would not apply to leases and concessions. The author confirmed that. So I don't see why, even from the point of view of the Science and Technology Administration, to reject this bill, because it's relevant to our local authorities and to water supply and heat supply. Any comments that are possible can be taken into account in the second reading. And I want to say one more thing. That the existence of laws, indeed, and certain restrictions in the concession law do not solve all questions. And the law that provided for the development of this field did indeed provide for the adoption of an appropriate law. I think that if we set a deadline for this moratorium, it would be an incentive for the Cabinet of Ministers to pass the law, and for us, MPs, to adopt it as quickly as possible. So I suggest that you take into account the comments I have already made in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Yuri Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, in fact, the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is in line with reality and the proposed changes to the reform program of the LHC are indeed contrary to this law. But we have a danger that becomes completely real, that by the time we get to reform, nothing will be reformed. And you know this well from experience, one that is directly linked to the communal economy and cities. That is why there is such an offer. There is a second draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, where the Cabinet of Ministers will be obliged by January 1st to enforce the Rent and Concession Act so that it will be weighed to make it normal. I'm not even suggesting that we adopt a moratorium right now. There's only two months left, and I don't think it's gonna happen in two months. I ask you, please, get this new draft of the decree, which states that we are taking as a basis, firstly, we entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy to finalize the bill. And third, by January 1st, to introduce a new law to the Cabinet of Ministers that has been worked out, so that there is a balanced issue to really reform housing and utilities. I'm speaking, not personally, but from the committee on construction, construction and housing. Nevertheless, we are experts and I ask you to support this, because then reform will just be nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I'll be the first to put the committee's proposal to the vote. Be careful. Be careful. The first one will be the committee's proposal to reject the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:19:00]] For 181 No decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal of the people's deputy Kucherenko, draft decree 2001 p-1. Please vote. [[16:19:33]] For-188. Also not supported. To read again. I'm putting this proposal up for re-reading, please vote. [[16:20:01]] For 215 Also. Thus, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues! By factions, please show me. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 112, “Our Ukraine” – 59, Socialists – 20, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues! I'm paying attention there about a dozen, if not more cards in our Ukraine. Someone took the cards. It's a little bit we're doing the wrong thing. Those who took them by accident, please return. That's clear. It's under review. Who's in charge of voting? [[16:21:12]] For 228 I am voting on the proposal to re-read the bill. [[16:21:35]] For 235 Decision taken. A similar draft of the Act amending the Act on Concessions is under consideration. [[on the award of water, water and heat concessions]] Registration number 2002. As reported by Kucherenko, Alexei Yuriovich. Prepare from the Chechetov Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u14	Dear Chief, honourable Members, I want to save your time, the law amending the Ukraine Act on Concessions actually brings the same meaning. So it's proposed to remove from the list of enterprises that can be passed on to the concession of the water and heat company. The point is to put a temporary moratorium on concessions so that we and the government can work out and adopt a bill on the characteristics of the transfer to concessions of enterprises that are vital to our population today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u15	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u16	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 4 October 2006, reviewed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. [[on the award of water, water and heat concessions]] The bill proposes to exclude from the list of public and municipal property rights that may be provided in concessions water supplies, removals, sewage treatment, and services related to the provision of heat to consumers in order to prevent abuse in this area. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that concession may be one of the effective forms of private investment in housing and utilities, as well as the need to reconcile the bill with the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for Reforming and Development of Housing and Utilities. In fact, this means that it can have full legislative power, just like the first time, just one of these laws or project that we are considering today, or the law on a state-wide programme for the reform and development of housing and utilities. As we considered the bill, our committee appreciated the appropriateness of its adoption. From an economic point of view. In the course of the discussion, the committee concluded that in the event of a ban on the transfer of water, heat and water supplies to concessions, territorial communities are losing a real opportunity to invest in budgetary investments, to technologically resupply the corresponding municipal systems while the financial capabilities of the territorial communities, as you all know, are not always sufficient even to support them in working conditions. In view of all this, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions to Reject. People's deputies please support the committee's opinion. The government supports the opinion of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down. Dear colleagues! Those who don't have cards, you can turn around, you'll get duplicates. It's already there, isn't it? Please, is this how we're going to discuss it? Then two "for", two "against" – a green, red button is recorded. It's the same image in support only. Baby, please. Prepare the Antitype. From the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u18	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please give the floor to my colleague, Alexander Bondar "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u19	All right, now, Bondar. Dear colleagues! It's working. It simply writes the first two in favour, if one of you were to press "against" you would be written against, and those who write "for" are not able to write down four. It's all about the system. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u20	Alexander Bondar, “Our Ukraine” faction. Once again, I repeat the position of our faction and my personal as an expert to adopt this law in the first reading, to establish a clear moratorium, and it is imperative that the government and the deputies accept changes in legislation that undermine the transfer to the concession of objects on which the livelihood of cities depends. Otherwise, we'll just freeze the situation and enter the winter with the big problems that exist in this area. I ask you to think again and vote in the first reading and to allow you to elaborate on the law that I have to make there, and I have already called you deputies and they can add their own. I reiterate that under the law of Kucherenko, there are the signatures of the Socialist representative of Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, who is now the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u21	Do not give authority. Antipenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u22	The honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy has rejected this law and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the person of Minbud does not support this bill. The state of housing and utilities, the need to modernize them, and the updating of their core funds is a subject of special attention by the authorities. People literally experience the technical weariness of housing and utilities and the inefficiency of the existing management system. The task of the State is to demolish the housing services system, make it transparent and effective. To provide quality services to the population, and right now there is a regulatory framework for the implementation of housing and utility reform. However, the draft law that was introduced directly addresses the above - mentioned issue. Moreover, it refers to changes in the materially significant part, which is an important and critical part of any investment project. Recall that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010. In particular, subsection 4, paragraph 2, of section 4 provides that the source of funding for the program is the inclusion of foreign investments and the cost of natural and legal persons by, among other things, the transfer of objects to the concession. The proposed bill contradicts this concept and proposes to exclude from the list of public and municipal property rights that can be provided in concessions, facilities used to carry out activities in such areas as water supply, transportation, sewage treatment, and the provision of heat to consumers. In fact, the authors of the bill, fearing abuses and indiscretions, cover the way for an effective owner. The drafters of the bill would do well to weigh it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u23	Thank you. We'll vote. Once again, I call your attention to the fact that the committee's ruling, the proposal, or the rejection, will be the first to vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:30:32]] For 181 Not accepted. The draft decree was passed by colleague Kucherenk 2002P-1 on the adoption of the first reading. [[16:31:07]] For 213. So, who's in charge of re-reading the bill? [[16:31:32]] For 233 Copy that. The bill is directed at re-reading the first reading. There is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 2072. [[concerning State registration]] Author of the initiative, Jaroslav Fedorchuk. Is he sick? Please, from the committee of Leapin Xenius.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the committee has carefully considered this bill and concluded that it is a very useful bill. In fact, it increases the responsibility for the proper implementation of such a state administrative procedure as a state registration. He suggests making appropriate changes to the Administrative Code and increasing this responsibility, and he adds some additions to the State Registration Act, which improves the state registration process. Instead, we ask for support on the basis of this bill. In order to be able to finalize this bill, especially in the part that deals with amendments to the National Registration Act. During application of the law, a number of issues and suggestions were raised to improve the state registration process. And this is the bill that will allow us to make appropriate proposals, to work on the second reading to improve the state registration process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u25	Thank you for your intelligence. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Nobody insists? Then I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding state registration. Registration number 2072. Please vote. [[16:33:43]] For 235 The first reading of the bill was adopted. The next draft of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the granting of State aid in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. Registration number 1286. The author of the legislative initiative asks that the bill be withdrawn. So please support this proposal. Vote. [[16:34:25]] For 251 Decision taken. The bill has been removed. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the registration of means of transport]] Registration number 2082. The committee suggests that the author be sent for work. Please support this proposal for further work. [[16:35:02]] For 258. Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, with a reduced procedure, we are done with you. We have a chapter to put into the agenda. We need to include in the agenda the daily draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Taxes on Special Taxation Regimes for Agricultural Producers. Bills 2299, 2299-1 and 2. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:35:53]] For 381 That's why all three of them are alternative. We can't, we have no right not to consider, if the included wants to be alone in the daytime, they're alternative, so all of them. And we vote one thing at a time. The one who picks up will get away with it. Yes, dear colleagues, we have included. Are you ready for the committee to report? Yes, please, Baranowski. Twenty-two-nine-nine-nine-nine. Who's the author? Hunger. Please. Dear fellows, let's have another appointment with you. Because we have time if we have the will of the session room to consider this law today. Who's in favour of considering this law today, please vote. [[16:37:12]] For 277 Please, Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, thank you, too, for supporting the village. Ladies and gentlemen, today, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax has been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on special taxation regimes for agricultural producers, register 2299. What prompted the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the Agrarian Committee, to initiate the project? As you know, on January 1, 2007, the current special tax regime for agricultural producers is suspended and article 8-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, which has a tax burden on farmers of 4.5 billion dollars, will be very much said. Since the government's draft law on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget does not provide for a mechanism to compensate for this burden, the national deputies were forced to initiate a 1 year extension of the current special taxation regime in order to be able to work together with the government on these positions. The adoption of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax will allow for the provision of the necessary level of conservation for direct support to agricultural producers in the absence of sufficient public budget funds to ensure their direct support. These measures are also in line with the provisions of Article 3 of the GAT since 1994 because they constitute a subsidy in the form of incomes that the State has refused for the benefit of farmers. Therefore, they should also be considered in the context of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. In particular, its provisions allowing subsidies to be made in this field. The decision committee of 10.10.2006 unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole as the Law of Ukraine. As far as I know, the committee of banks and finance has made such a decision. Thank you for your attention. People’s deputies are asked to support this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u27	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Will there be questions? I won't. Have a seat, please. Yes, bill number 2299-1, Barani's Alexander Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Law, which I now represent practically, I repeat 2291-1. This is a similar law, which is now reported by the committee head, Mr. Gladys. I would just like to point out this: the standard that has been in place today in relation to VAT agriculture has given us the possibility that today we are using about 95% of our food products in domestic production. After substantially reduced import duties, i.e. we opened our borders by voting for the Laws to join the WTO, we opened our borders, our subsidies to our production of a village that's produced at 8, or 9 times lower than, let's say, it's in our neighbors that surround us, our borders. Well, for example, Estonia, which has 800,000 hectares of rally, gets subsidies for agriculture the same size, what our peasants get when we have 32 million hectares of roller coaster, respectively. What's more, VAT, as today's 12% trying to enter for the village, that means that the agriculture is going to have an additional 3.8 billion dollars. The explanation is that subsidies are increasing by 1.3 billion. 1.7 billion, demanding 3.8, you see that more than two billion don't cover the cost of peasants. Moreover, this year, with regard to last year, the cost of mineral fertilizer, fuel, technology, and wage growth increased by up to 2 billion. I mean, last year's profits in the village are smaller than they are today. And the VAT, right now, we're putting our entire village on its knees and, practically, our respectable friends, it's going to be a total waste. This means that we're going to lose our manufacturer, who's started to rise, though slowly, but we've started to rise in recent years, and we're going to lose all the good that's been gained in the village. And then again, the time will come for us to resume. That's why I'm making a similar request to respectable national MPs: if we passed this law today both in the first and second readings as a whole, because we've passed this law in the last three years each year. That's what the situation required. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u29	Thank you. No questions? Well, Easy wants a break. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u30	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Actually, Adam Ivanovich, I don't want to get upset, but according to part of article 29 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I want to make a comment to you on the fact that the bill that we are currently considering has failed to violate article 106 and has not been concluded on the Main Committee, in this case, by the Agrarian Policy Committee, as well as Bill 2299-2, that is, we cannot consider and accept it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u31	I thank you for asking. Here was reported by the committee head, Mr. Gladys, who is present in the hall, and I want to assure you that the bill just passed a profile committee and there are the appropriate conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u32	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Petrovich. Let's just say thank you to the can for keeping awake. For the watchfulness. Keep watching. It's all right, but the committee, you see, has a decision. Dear colleagues, now, now. We've got another Teryohin Sergei project. But there's something I can't see. Let's write down who wants to make a statement from the factions. Please. And Terjehoin even got to sign up. That's very good. I just don't understand why we have it. And immediately the record was with the deputies, and from this. Dear colleagues, let's give four a chance, that'll take 12 minutes, we'll make a decision. Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”, please. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u33	Stanislav Arezhvitin, “Our Ukraine”. The Banking Committee considered the bill and supported it. Because we, as bankers, understand that we need to increase the capacity of agricultural production, because the following year it is expected that Ukraine's banking system should accumulate at least 14 billion dollars in this sector. And in order for this to happen, we really need to do some extra work for this area. That's why the Banking Committee and our faction support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u34	Please, Stepan Bulba. Get ready for Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u35	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. So it turns out that the entire history of the former Soviet Union and of Ukraine's new independence times all the time, ideologies, that means that the states were all about solving all the problems at the expense of the village. And now I think we're trying, so here's what we're trying to do to solve the problems of the village at the expense of the village. But everything is given in such a way that it is necessary to help and so forth. I'm expressing the position of the Socialist faction. We are in favour of the bill of the People's Deputy Alexander Petrovich Baraniowski. As the former head of the Poltava District Administration, I know how difficult it is for peasants, how hard it is for them to endure all of our so-called reforms, and I think it is finally necessary to understand that the village cannot survive any further, especially after talking about the need for entry into the WTO, we obviously do not notice the main thing that our village, like many other sectors of the economy, is not ready to compete with other states, with representatives of the agrarian sector of other states in connection with and without the support of the manufacturer, a rural producer from the state. And it's completely right, Alexander Petrovich Baranowski, who says that even those countries that have formed in the Soviet Union, now the members of the Soviet Union, they have, their salt producer has support eight to ten times as much, subsidies as our peasant. And let's just understand that we need to respond to the needs of peasants. We will support both in the first reading and in general as the law of Alexander Baranowski's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u36	Thank you. Yes, please, Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready, Kowzel's handing over Kirylenka. Microphone. Who? Nuts? Please, Yaduha. Also, turn on the Jadovice microphone. They'll turn it on, they'll turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! I don't think we need to apocryphalize anyone today in what state of the agrarian sector of our economy. I remember what we said when we were learning that we were always wiping the borders between the city and the village. And today, we've wiped out the village, and the borders have remained. And so I think that most of the inhabitants of many inhabited places in the harvest season didn’t even know that there was a gathering of bread. The situation is extremely critical because, in principle, agriculture today in Ukraine has been abandoned. We're talking about different subsidies, I'd call them taxes, and the state can't give direct support to agricultural producers as much as the European community. Therefore, the proposal of the faction of the Party of the Regions is the only one to clearly support the bill submitted by the agrarian committee and the land relations head of the committee, Michael Gladys, at number 2299. To accept it in the first and second readings, and in general as such, that even if it makes the situation easier in the country for one year and gives us the opportunity once again with the state, with the budget to figure out how we can help the agricultural sector further. I think it's going to work, it's going to be an elementary responsibility, and of course it's going to be a result. All of you, Your Honor, please ask your colleagues, in fact, to support Bill 2299 in the first and second readings and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u38	Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, Dnipropetrovska, Timoshenko Street. I clearly support those colleagues who have expressed their support for this bill from this rostrum and I also support that we accept it in the first and second readings, and have already signaled to society and agriculture that we are supporting it today. To the arguments given, I'll add a few more within the given time. Dear colleagues, in the most favorable years for agriculture, net profits did not exceed one billion dollars. The removal, as has already been said, is only after this tax of more than 3 billion, plus the increase in payments to the Pension Fund, liquidation, subsidies through processing enterprises for animal production. And we're not just going to get a crying picture, we're going to get an extremely disturbing picture from next year. The agriculture will not die, but it will go to the barter that we saw with you in the early 1990s, trade on the routes, trade in the processing industry, lose the state even more than lose the village. The second argument, I'm asking not for one year, colleagues, is that we have to look at and more stabilize the rules of the game in agriculture, one year, we continue and we don't give a signal every year to one of the leading sectors for a big perspective. Why I'm saying this, the introduction to the World Trade Organization is usually a major limitation on the yellow box, and everyone in the room understands what it's all about. But for agricultural countries, an adaptation period of three or five years is the norm. Argentina has reached an adaptation period for its village at seven years of age. So in the negotiations that will end after Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, we must now ask a key question, an adaptation period for Ukraine's agriculture for at least three or five years. And this tax, the benefits from it, is also introduced for the appropriate period, three or five years. And the next thing you know, dear colleagues, is the possibility that we're not yet WTO. I call on those deputies, my colleagues who work on the Committee on Budgets. For the next year, we need to substantially increase spending on agriculture, the social development of the village until we're WTO, because we're going to join WTO, really, we're going to have to limit our appetites. I want to say that there is a particular need to increase funding for operations that allow for the creation of a favourable agricultural market, rural money is not budgeted, the main money is priced, and the price should help to form the state itself, the state mechanisms, as we did in 2004, when substantial funds were allocated to fixed transactions, the inertial and the large volumes of government purchases, especially seed at fixed and highly motivated prices for peasants. I'm offering not 600 million dollars as in the budget right now, but to increase at least two, three times then the state will be a strong player and we'll see how much the village benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Literally two words, we have discussed this issue comprehensively on the Coalition's Coordination Committee and concluded, and it is the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister himself, who has indicated that we really need to extend the time limit for this tax to be passed by this law. Since, honourable colleagues, we are entering the budgetary process, I would like us to support the proposal that we actually adopt this law as a law. As a law that could be taken into account in the adoption of the Law on State Budget. I reiterate this joint decision on behalf of the coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers in the Prime Minister's person. If there is no objection, then I will immediately put to the vote in general. And one more moment, dear colleagues. You see, there are three bills here, but two of them are bills, i.e. bills that have been reported by colleagues Gladys and Baranowski are identical. So we're counting that by voting first, it's counted and that's what's in the second project, in the Baranian colleague's project, because the difference, as Baranowski said, is gone, so we're going to put it in that order. I am voting on the adoption, as a whole, of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Added Cost Tax on Special Income Taxation Regimes, registration number 2299. Please vote. [[16:55:47]] For 422 The law is passed. I think that even those farmers who can hear us also express such satisfaction as the colleagues in the session room, that we, all who had the opportunity to press the button, they did it, the truth is that one person only held on. Yes. Next question is the Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Added Cost Tax, 2324. [[on the exemption from tax on the privatization of agricultural enterprises]] The author's request is not yet considered, it is not included in the agenda. And we have another one left, about getting into the agenda, and since we have the conclusions of the committee, the profile committee, we can look at it. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of professional associations as legal persons. Registration number 2083. Volinec is the author of the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:57:10]] For 180. Questions are not included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, thanks to our mobilization and wise work after the evening session, you and I have exhausted the order of the day, and we have exhausted the order of the day. Thank you for your fruitful work. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow's the beginning of work as usual at 10 o'clock.
