ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, journalists and guests of the Supreme Council! Today, on June 20, members of the Presidium entrusted me. People's Deputies please prepare for registration Enable the “Council” system. 10.01:27 There were 436 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputies, Vladimir Leontijovich and Pehota Vladimir Juliusovich. Let us welcome them on your behalf with this fine day and wish them health, happiness, longevity, and all the good things they desire. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, members of the provisional presidency, together with representatives of the MPs, decided to start today's plenary session with the presentation of the authorized factions with proposals, announcements, reports. It's supposed to take 30 minutes. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. But we need to vote on this: you understand that three minutes are spent under the Rules of Speech. We have five factions today. It takes 30 minutes. Therefore, there is a six - minute proposal for each faction representative to amend the Rules of Procedure. What if someone has other suggestions? None. Then I ask you to vote. Let's do it because it's about changing the regular time. Who's in favour of giving all the factions six minutes' worth of money, please vote. [[10:03:40]] For 417 The speech is given to the head of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovich. Right now he's the one who applied for the show. I ask everyone else to make such statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u2	Dear comrade. Colleagues! And comrades! I want to say that the work on creating a coalition in different formats is nearing completion and it's obvious that the final decision will be made today. It's going to be a coalition in one form or another -- it's going to show time today. I just want to say that for the voters we made a commitment to, there's an option that we're willing to sign. ready to sign a faction of socialists, our principles of position on land, a warning against selling it today, but on conditions such as industrialism. The property in the industry is provided for, as regards the consideration of the obligations of the international Ukraine with regard to cooperation with NATO and other structures, the development of relations with Russia and other countries, this is provided for in the text of the agreement, and in relation to NATO, the formula is written only after the referendum. But the most important issue in these documents, I think, is that in the second format, which is also practically consistent with the participation of the Party of Regions, there is also an extension of political reform. I'd like to get your attention on this. Today we don't know who the majority of those in opposition are yet, but I'd like to address all of you. We must quickly accept changes to the Constitution as part of the powers of local authorities, the development of self-government, and the adoption of laws relating to the ability of local governments to perform their functions and to provide services to the population. This is about changes in fiscal legislation, changes in tax legislation, such as the addition of taxes to local territories. And in my opinion, if the coalition doesn't work, which it won't work, we should all be on this side -- on the side of the continuation of political reform. Until the local authorities feel responsible for the electorate until the electorate feels responsible for who he sent to this local authority, until democracy in Ukraine is gone and stability in the country is gone. I hope that everyone here is present in the session room and, fortunately, at this point we're all still the same, we're not related to one or the other category, we're going to be on these principles. And I would like to immediately warn those who would somehow like to review political reform. With all certainty, there will be nothing out of this swarm. So with confidence that we will ensure the democratization of social life, we will increase the role and status of local authorities, and I would like to wish us success in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the note was one. Is that what I mean by "our Ukraine"? Roman Petrovich, you will perform. The word is given to the Romani MP Petrovich Immortal, the head of the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u4	John Sidorovich, it turns out that if there's no one to talk, let the Immortal speak, right? Your Honor, my fellow Members, it is certainly our common fault that the negotiation process has stalled. However, this does not remove the responsibility of all of us for the need to make an agreement. Because, Alexandre Mikolaiovich, we did not change the Constitution, but we changed it in difficult conditions that required changes that would bind Parliament and the government of the State. Of course, what needs to be noted is that the negotiations and consultations that are taking place have shown that more than 300 deputies in the Hall consider the joint steps that need to be taken now to reform the Ukrainian economy, the foreign policy course, the reform of the administrative system, the change in the political model, and the change in the constitutional model. Then the question is, why is it that we are all the only ones who need to implement the model that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was talking about, the model that Mikola Janovich Azarov spoke about last time in the speech, what I was talking about, why we can't find a common format where we have those points that we can't get close to? It's not close to us, dear colleagues, it's yesterday's story. So first of all, our proposal is, let's just forget about what happened yesterday, let's think about the future, what's going on ahead of us, what's waiting for our kids, what's waiting for our grandchildren. Is that why we can't find common ground in ways and methods of reforming Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian economy? I'd like to make you another offer. We've talked about a democratic coalition, we've talked about a broad coalition, we've talked about a coalition of two political forces. Let's propose a stabilisation coalition where we could join in joint programs that would allow us to move together and execute these programs. Those who offer such approaches that will enable us to forget what separated us yesterday and allow us to move forward may well be worthy to unite in such a coalition. Clearly, we need unity. Dear colleagues, June 22nd is approaching. June 22 is the day of the war. I want us to forget about the wars and to remember the need for peace and the rapprochement of our positions. Dear colleagues, coalitions are not created for the division of office, not for the prime minister’s office, not for the headship of the Supreme Council. Coalitions are created for the execution of the program. So our position is to work in detail on the program to stop at things that we haven't responded to today. We say, "European integration, Euro-Atlantic integration." We're talking about the need to develop the eastern markets and maintain the eastern markets through the mechanisms of the single economic community. We're talking about finding the answer to these difficult questions. Note, political reform has begun. But why has this political reform, rather than answering the question of the coalition, the MP and the government, made this relationship more difficult? We do not see that the changes that have been brought into the Constitution have not only allowed us to draw closer to each other and to bring the responsibility of political elites and governments closer together, but have created a series of problems that we do not have an answer to today. I don't want to analyze the administrative model that is now in force in Ukraine that complicates decision-making. And for the problems that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich just said about the Supreme Council. I'm not talking about the interaction between the Supreme Council and the government anymore. Dear colleagues, how do you feel about the coalition's activities with a minimum number of votes when the Constitution says that a third of the members of the Supreme Council can initiate questions about the mistrust of the government? Now, notice, what common sense will allow a coalition to be created in all of this to leave on the side of a third, what a month each session will initiate the mistrust of the government, and instead of working for the government, it will report here endlessly. And another coalition: why does the Constitution of Ukraine still have the right to send one minister? So what's the point of a coalition calling a minister on a carpet every day and resigning? These are the problems that tell you that until we answer them from the point of view that we agree to complete constitutional reform, to overcome these inadequacies -- these are the problems that we've come up with together. Dear colleagues, we are. First of all, from my political power, I ask you, honourable voters, to apologize for delaying this process. It is difficult, but the fact that “Our Ukraine” is today demonstrating the search for compromise across the spectrum of political forces is evidence that we are looking for the model that will allow us to find a way out of the situation. We're supported by terms. A 30-day deadline that coincides for us to make decisions about the formation of a coalition. Maybe this will make us actively engage in a dialogue and find a way out of the difficult situations where we are based on the NATO problem, the problem of reforming the forces in Ukraine and so forth. We need to find the answers so that 14-year-old history will be forgotten forever, so that we don't appeal to it, looking for an answer tomorrow. We do not understand that it is better to test today for stability in Ukraine than every day or council in the Centre of Ukraine, or council in the East, or boards in the West of Ukraine will make decisions that will destabilize the situation in Ukraine. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, director of the Communist Party of Ukraine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u6	Respectable voters, respected colleagues. Today we're watching the 90th series of coalitions with you. Of course, politics is the art of compromise. A compromise can be made in the event of a great goal — the future of our country, its unity, the growth of the economy, the growth of the welfare of its citizens. And responsible policies and policies, the patriots of their country, will always be able to overcome differences, find the right solutions. But in the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, they are trying to form a coalition in principle, a limited society with limited criminal responsibility, whose main principles are not State principles, not political principles or even market principles. The main principles are the dirty market, where everything is sold and everything is bought — posts, portfolios, honor and conscience. The main measure of value is the size of the barium for itself and its business, which can be obtained in the near future as a result of joining the coalition. The capital that came to the Supreme Council cannot divide Ukraine in any way. The fight goes down and down every post. It's one financial and industrial group, the other comes out and entertains the people with sights, forgetting the bread. The main legislature has become like the largest slave market in Kafa, as the Old Testament called Theodosia. It is not just one Rocksolana that is sold, but the whole of Ukraine, along with its land and people. Parliament has been transformed into a large market, where there are officially auctions at the state level, and there are no principles or morals in these trades, like any other market. And the promises made by radio and television can always be forgotten or forgotten until the next election. Neither the President nor the Supreme Council nor the Cabinet of Ministers are concerned about rising food prices, housing and utility payments and transport. No one was interested in gas issues, winter preparations and the upcoming cleaning, as had not been the case this year. All power from above and from below to the village, district, city and district council, until the Supreme Council, has been engaged in coalitions, disputes and scandals about its spheres of influence, portfolios and posts. The question is, why do people have that kind of power? The Executive Committees must comply with the laws and they keep accounts with each other. The Supreme Council hasn't been able to work for two months. They're just sharing their portfolios. And, of course, it unites in the struggle to share these portfolios with the desire to receive dividends from its stay in Parliament. For us Communists, there is nothing unexpected about the fact that capital has united for its beneficial interests, forgetting the principles and promises, no. This is the law of a certain life that has taken place in our society, and no matter how different political forces, whatever coalitions may arise, we declare that we will defend national interests and never allow ourselves to trade principles. What conclusions can be drawn, respected colleagues? First, the country to go to chaos, the President tossed himself out of economic and political governance, and the President has removed himself from the leadership of his political power, the so-called orange coalition, which has led him to power. Initially, one studied with the President and stated that the second term was only the beginning of his studies, and the current one would not understand what he was doing. The Supreme Council is dealing with portfolios, so this is almost becoming a political exchange, but the most dangerous, respected colleagues, that this is where the centre of corruption is moving in our society, and that's where the portfolios are being distributed. The Cabinet of Ministers is in charge and the Property Management Committee is in the future and, instead of the Prime Minister, the Executive Director will naturally be appointed, let us say, coalitions, and, more precisely, the clan, the Executive Director. Local self-government authorities are now captured by various groups that, regardless of political colour, use local authority to destroy the country's governance. Elections, the failure of elections in Cherkassa is the strongest confirmation. The orange team cannot separate these portfolios, bite, millions of people are blowing out of the budget, and thus trying to take power. The budgetary process, comrades, is falling apart, and the centrifugal force that is emerging today is a real threat that the country will lose its governance at all and the near prospect of dividing it into territory and through federalization, the Confederacy will destroy Ukraine in general. The contradiction with the Russian Federation is deepening, and this will necessarily complicate not only the problem of gas price but also our market for domestic producers. Tariffs and prices are rising, people are desperate today, and that's obvious to everyone. Who benefits from this? Of course, this is beneficial for those who receive huge barrels of political instability. What do we suggest we do, Communists? It is clear that, as of today, the issue of coalition has not been resolved, so I call upon all of you people's deputies who believed that your duty today is to bring good to people and to help develop Ukraine, to begin today to form the governing bodies of the Supreme Council and, by changing the way in which issues are dealt with, to start choosing leadership and to form committees. Thus, in the context of political reform, we take full responsibility as provided for in the Constitution. And the second. I propose to create an anti-crisis coalition because the stabilization coalition has already led to a stabilizer in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u7	Thank you. I'm referring to the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, who's speaking from you? The word has been given to the leader, the head of the militia’s militia block, Timoshenko, the national deputy, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good day, all who watch us on TV or listen on the radio. First of all, I want to point out that I was right and that our football players have turned out to be much better than our politicians. And I just want us to welcome our victory team. And I think they did, though, because they didn't try to play on two fields and two teams at the same time. I think it's hard to imagine that if they were playing with Spain and Saudi Arabia at the same time, as we have it now in politics, I think the result would be projected. And that's why I think even the roles here are similar to those of Saudi Arabia in terms of capital, which is Spain in terms of professionalism. But it's not natural, it's not natural, it's not natural. I think we have something to report, just democratic coalitions, because I think in six minutes the Party of Regions will be reporting on its success with our Ukraine. I can firmly say that after our democratic coalition has joined the block of Our Ukraine, 275 more questions, claims and demands have emerged. I can tell you that we've agreed, you'll be surprised, but that's true. And we don't even look at the next ultimatum that we see, we agree with everything with our eyes closed. Because we know that it's really just a bunch of stuff that's worthless, and I can say that the Socialist Party behaves the same way. Because we're all together, absolutely, talking, but none of us have broken our ideological principles, and I think all the compromises have been found again and again. Once again, I would like to state that our political power is absolutely clear enough to sign a coalition agreement long ago and confidently. And if we have any more demands, we're also ready to accept them, apriors, because we know they don't make any sense. Because, in fact, today, the situation in the country, both politically and economically, is unfolding by the most difficult means, precisely. We have, for you to know, practically, a complete bankruptcy of the entire gas system of Ukraine, a complete bankruptcy. And I'm not going to go into who and how I led to this state, we have our first time completely empty gas dumps. We have almost doubled since July 1st, all of us, starting with gas, and then, as a result, utility payments for the population. I think this is going to lead to Ukraine's complete collapse in the near future, and I think this chaos really looks like this, because chaos is in all the ingredients without exception. And that's why. I would simply like to inform all of you that the process of creating a coalition has become more complicated precisely because very much of the pressure has fallen on the shoulders of the “Our Ukraine” bloc. By noon, they're having intense negotiations with our democratic coalition, having lunch where they have to, after lunch with the Party of Regions, the same intense negotiations. And I can tell you that we are being informed about the promotion of the “Our Ukraine” negotiations with the Party of the Regions, as well, I think the Party of the Regions is reporting on the progress of the negotiations. We have recently been informed that the coalition agreements that have been prepared are absolutely no different between us that what we have written with us has been written with the Party of the Regions, with which I welcome everyone. And even yesterday we heard such a unique, say, thing that the Party of the Regions agreed to join NATO. Because there was no other way to create a broad coalition. And I think we're going to decide the faction today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u9	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u10	Dear friends! Once again, I wanted our voters to hear that we have a people right out of the football field in the Supreme Council Hall, that they should be allowed to shout "Ole-ole-ole!" and drink beer, and it would be okay then in the hall, and I think it would be natural. I can say that as events unfold, I do not rule out such a situation when “Our Ukraine” simultaneously and coalition agreements will be signed with the Party of Regions and with our bloc, and I mean with the Socialists. I think it's going to be a big surprise for society. So I want to just finish my brief speech to say that our block has stopped wondering, we're just watching a wave of protests unfold in district councils virtually all over the central and western parts against unnatural coalitions and against unnatural negotiations. And I can tell the whole country that already such tough decisions about the inadmissibility of unnatural coalitions and the creation of a democratic coalition have been made in areas like Kyivska, Cerkasca, Ternopilska and so on, Lviv. All six factions, regardless of political orientation, said they didn't accept such treachery and such, I won't say that word because it's quoted later. Therefore, I believe that we have literally little time left to sign the democratic coalition today, to the maximum of tomorrow, and “Our Ukraine” is personally responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given by the Ukrainian National Deputy Azarov Mikola Janović, deputy head of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u12	Respectable people's deputies, respected by our citizens of Ukraine. I will allow myself literally to walk away from the statement of the faction approved by our Council, so that, after such frank demagogies and misinformation, I can tell the people of Ukraine and tell all the people of Ukraine that when the Party of the Regions led the country, the gas depots were full. And the second. We have not negotiated and therefore cannot speak of the official outcome of our negotiations. At the consultations, we agreed that the decision to join NATO could be taken only by the Ukrainian people and only by referendum, and that was our common position. The difference between those who are involved in politics outside of Parliament and those present in this room is that the first can allow themselves to be debated to infinity, and the second, that is, we are with you, we do not have such a right. Because, unlike them, we have a responsibility to make decisions, which is our job, and that is what the people have chosen, and that is what the country is waiting for us to do. We have come to a line that Ukraine can look forward to two ways. The first is the continuation of the current situation in which everything remains in the country, namely, the uncertainty of Ukraine's prospects for socio-economic development, in the face of a sharp rise in energy prices. Lack of clearly defined approaches to addressing critical foreign policy issues, deepening the social divide. The second path involves political will and, therefore, the abandonment of the surviving slogans. Bringing together political forces willing to respond to the challenges of time. Specific actions to bring the people of Ukraine together around the idea of transforming Ukraine into a developed European society and a State. The Party of the Regions has done everything in its power to make the second reality. For the sake of unity, we have taken a step towards aligning our policy provisions with the programme provisions of our potential coalition partners. We've given our hand to cooperate. We remain open to negotiations today with all parties and blocs represented in the Supreme Council with a view to establishing the widest possible coalition. In this regard, I am empowered to reaffirm the permanence of the position of the Party of the Regions, which is our readiness to participate in the establishment of a sustainable parliamentary majority. In pursuit of this goal, we call upon the deputies from other factions to recognize the crucial importance of the present moment and to support our position. It is up to us whether we remain in the eyes of the people as politicians, worthy of the high rank of national MP or people, unable to negotiate for the salvation of the country. In this context, I am also authorized to state that unless the format of the coalition is determined on 21 June, the faction of the Party of the Regions, together with the people's deputies who share the concerns of the present situation, reserves the right to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council and to proceed. We are confident that the people will support us because the people have taken a stand for words and need action that is energetic, determined, capable of changing people's lives for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m0.u13	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Showtime's up. I don't have a statement on the table about the creation of a coalition of MP factions. So I'm calling it a 16-hour break. Faction leaders, please assemble on the third floor. I've already announced the break.
