ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs of journalists, guests of the Supreme Council! Good morning, TV sets and radio audiences! We're starting the morning session and I'm asking you to prepare for the registration of the National Deputies. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:02:32]] The system shows that 429 national deputies have been registered. The morning session is open. Today, according to article 25 of the Rules, time is allocated for the declaration of requests. I'm going to do it because that's the kind of thing that came up. The request by Vladimir KOUREN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a project on the concept of the development of the State Enterprise Odes Sea Trade Port for 2006-2010. The request by Michael ZUJANOV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the head of the Donetsk District State Administration, the head of the First Level District State Administration of the Donetsk Region on Gasification in the next year of the population of the Donetsk Region, primarily rural, and the mandatory inclusion of them in the 2007 budget project. Alexander ABDULIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Transport, the Head of the State Road Service for the improper consideration of parliamentary appeals concerning the problem which is of general significance - the change in the status of the road “Example Control” – the town-type village of Zabrovice – from the local, territorial to the national, regional and related reconstruction. Ms Sergia ŠEVČUKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the approval of the national diagnostic programme and the treatment of multiple sclerosis for 2007-2012 and the allocation of centralised funds for the treatment of patients with multiple sclerosis. Teams of deputies had to write the third, to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing about financing jobs from the cleanup of the Belgrade Canal. [[PACHES, SAMEELEN AND OTHERS, ONLY THREE REPRESENTATIVES]] Roman ZAZALJUKA to the Attorney General for not responding to the MP’s request for unlawful actions by the prosecutor of the Yampil district of Winnitsk. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Cerkas District Public Administration for the verification of the violation of the constitutional rights of the resident of the town of Korsun-Shevchenkovsky Cherkaske region, citizen of Miroshnichenko. Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Interior, Minister of Justice, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the conduct of illegal actions by officials of the Kirovograd area to require actions by the private shareholder company “Universal business company Kirovograd”. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General on the verification of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine by law enforcement officials and groups of persons in the Dnipropetrovsk, Hersonian, and Autonomous Republic of Crimea. LEFT BIRJECA to the Attorney General on the violation of housing law by the head of the TRIPLE TES. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Minister of Interior, the Attorney General on the status of investigating the unlawful actions of officials of the authorities and members of the police of the Suma Region against students of the Sumsian College in the summer of 2004 and participating in these actions by the then Chief of Internal Affairs and now the Chief of the Administration for the Activities of the Judiciary and Frg_00848*001*004&lt;10:06: 25&gt; the law enforcement agencies of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Mikoli Plehanova. GREGORY MANKOVSKI to the Secretary of Defense about the state of storage of explosives, ammunition and their elements in the military area of A-1479 of Inja Chernigiv. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Environmental Protection on the violation by the Ministry of the terms of examination of materials and the granting of licences for the geological study of raw materials in the consumer company Kahelina from the city of Calus Ivano-Frankow region. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the Reconstruction of the Motor Bridge across the Krivi Torec River in the village of Novgorodské, in the town of Déržinské Donetské region. The Polish Ministry of Fuel and Energy is responsible for providing the information necessary for the work of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Interim Investigation Commission on the verification of the situation of natural gas security for Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine’s energy market. Sergio SASA to the head of the Kiev City State Administration to ensure proper functioning in the city of Kiev of social sites. Teams of deputies to the Head of the State Road Service on the capital repair of the accident area of the Dzerjinsk-Costantinjka road in the Donetsk region. [[KZUB, COMAR]] MICHELLA to the Head of State for the Protection of Legal Rights and Interests of the Private Intertrans Shareholder Society. The Polish branch is headed by the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to provide the information necessary for the work of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. These requests will be sent today to the specified addresses. And please monitor the coming of answers to these questions. It's a day's work in front of your eyes. A draft Regulation on the cost of expenditure for the implementation of the mandates of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2007 is under consideration. The Committee's project is given to you 19 numbers. Reports the Head of the Committee on Rules and Deputy Ethics and on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the cost of expenditure for the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to the provisions of article 7 of article 7 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, costs for the following year shall be approved by the Supreme Council until the adoption of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the following year, following the conclusions of the Rules and Budget Committees. At a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 October this year, a project on the cost of implementing the Supreme Council's mandate in 2007, submitted by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was discussed and unanimously decided to support and submit a decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Issues also reviewed and supported the proposed draft of the resource at its October 17th meeting this year. You've received a draft decision. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u3	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Is there no need to discuss? These are numbers, they're right in front of you. So I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling on this issue. Please. [[10:11:06]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising is under consideration. [[on the promotion of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages]] Ukrainian National Deputy Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to an extraordinary problem and say that here in the session room all the summonses. The theme “Human Health and the Health of the Nation ” was leading. And I would like to remind everyone who is now in this session hall for the first time that this subject, despite its discussion, has always found support for this session hall, since we are all aware of the fantastically complex situation that has taken place today with regard to the health of the demographic situation in Ukraine. And I remember what a heated discussion there was in the previous call about the bill that I and my colleague, Mikola Polichek, first proposed. It applied to restrictions and order, such as functioning, I'll say, to people who smoke and people who don't smoke. I remember the first time we registered a bill on the obligation to set up separate halls for those who do not smoke in restaurants, cafes, or bars who were critical that all restaurants, bars, and cafes would break up, that we would have nothing to do. Unfortunately, not all the regions work today, but we have demonstrated in this session hall that we are a civilized nation and that we can respect each other on such a delicate issue as human rights. Today, I would like to inform you that Ukraine is leading to the number of people who smoke and who are very serious about us, who are sad about alcohol. According to recent sociological studies, in Ukraine people who smoke constantly are 41 percent. For example, in Sweden, 22 percent, in Russia, 36 percent, on average, in the European Union, 32 percent. But it's not scary that we have high figures in common. What's scary is that we have the highest smoking rates among young people today, and even higher rates among young girls or women. We have an electorate, I'll say, in sociology from 12 to 18 years of age, girls smoke more than boys from 12 to 18. And not one of those reasons, one of which, I think, is that I would say such a sudden, cynical, advertising activity that is now being carried out and aggressive advertising activities that are being carried out today by campaigns that are engaged in the production of tobacco and alcohol. No country in the world has such a large number of external advertisements. You can take statistics now, and you can see that, on the condition that you say square meters in the city of Kiev or in our district centers, and you can take in European cities, there's no such amount of outside advertising, there's no outside advertising anywhere near the roadside. And by the way, I've repeatedly taken the police's attention and I haven't heard from our militiamen any explanation as to how they're allowed to put external advertising with the right design of the image on the driver, because it definitely causes more accidents, because it distracts drivers especially on our roads. We have the largest number of advertisements for alcohol and tobacco, since in most European countries tobacco is generally prohibited from advertising. And there's alcohol around here, but there's a strict ban on schools and kindergartens and stuff. We have a child who comes out of kindergarten, school, college, and college, and he is greeted by cheerfully smiling boys or girls who smoke or drink. Can we stop this situation when, around, an environment that fully signals young people who are fashionable in drinking and smoking? I debated with our colleagues in the session room for a long time. I'll tell you almost all the truth without a last name. So historically, both in the government and in the Ukrainian Parliament, there are a lot of people doing this business. I want to say today, without names, that these people realize that it is not only necessary to earn money in the nation’s health but also to invest in it. I am absolutely convinced that all factions today are willing to take the first step, at least the first step, to ask about the prohibition of advertising alcohol and tobacco with external advertising. I say the first step, because television is the second step. And worldwide, advertising for alcohol and tobacco is a commercial for special magazines, newspapers that are not in open contact, especially with young people. I offered a compromise version, realizing that if we asked today about the total ban and external advertising and television media, because of the different circumstances, it would not find support. So I convinced the committee and the MPs: let's show that there's an understanding of this problem in the session room and we'll start by banning the advertising of alcohol and tobacco from external advertising. Then the committee promised me that he would work on how we could get the TV screen off the case. Because, in fact, television companies today, advertising agencies are breaking the rules of the law, and our law allows only brands of alcohol campaigns that support sports broadcasts and concerts. But you see, there's actually direct advertising on television. So here's my proposal. Today, to vote in the first reading of my bill, my second reading needs to be looked at and analyzed. I am prepared not to insist that the norm on banning advertising for alcohol and tobacco from external advertising has become effective, for example, since January 1, 2007, because I understand that it is both budgets and local budgets and other issues. And I'm willing to go to knock in part, let's say, if we're banning all tobacco next year and giving a year, or maybe some transition period for advertising alcohol or beer. But if we don't do it today, I'll tell you that we won't do it for the next few years. Why do I say this with certainty, because in my previous call to the People's Deputies, I may say, progressive thinkers of the people's deputies – Mikola Tomenko, Raisa Bogotirov, Yuri Artemenko, Julia Timoshenko and several other deputies had such a bill. We debated him for three years and he didn't vote in the previous call because the influence of the tobacco business was very strong. We have a bill in our government that we've prepared, a year that was ready and didn't come to the vote. If we don't vote and reject this bill today, in the next few years, our children and young people will go to cities and watch, enjoy advertising, where modern life is demonstrated by those who drink or smoke. And that's why, because of the lessons, because of social advertising, it's impossible to stop it, because when they say, "You know, we're going to put 5 percent on social advertising for this money." But what this five - percent social ad will do when they are surrounded daily by another life, where alcohol and tobacco are the basis of this fashion, this world view. Unfortunately, you know, we have a lot of popular people involved in advertising alcohol and tobacco. We've got a lot of trouble and I'd like to ask Alexander Alexandrovitch a little bit of our Committees on Finance and Banking there to look at the shelters there and raise my bill about what, you know, we don't have beer and cocktails, it's a low-alcoholic drink that's legally indeterminate and they use it. This means that, for example, during mass action, beer can be sold; it is not prohibited. So we're the only country where we're supposed to drink up to eight and a half degrees. And on the committee, my bill lies, falls, no one needs it. So once again, I would like to urge everyone to take the first step today. The second step is to identify, introduce beer, cocktails, and ban them from being used and sold at least in the cities of mass concerts, sports, and to step one step closer to civilized countries, where it is not fashionable to be a young man who goes with a bottle to the central city, the capital of Ukraine, and in the second hand holds a cigarette. Because today we have this fashionable life. In Ukraine, I would like to see the modern life of all cities in a different way -- with a healthy lifestyle, with a cultural way of life. And I hope the session room in this bill will support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u5	Please, is there a question before Nikola Volodymyrovich? There's a question. Please sign in. Well, a lot of people are interested in promoting alcohol. We're gonna take ten minutes to ask questions, right? Perhaps even fifteen if necessary. But 10 minutes, please. The killer's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u6	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please tell us how you feel about the fact that we today have such free consumption and alcoholic, beer drinks, and these so - called, soft drinks not only in higher education institutions, but unfortunately today we can also observe in the courtyards of secondary educational institutions when young people still use these drinks freely, and on the other hand, for example, local self-government authorities, law enforcement agencies are not taking any steps to make these actions impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u7	I think there's two elements here. One element, because we always accept that if there is a problem, it is either a law by the Supreme Council to adopt, or almost not a doctrine. I think in this case enough understanding of this problem, for example, by the heads of schools or school leaders. Within the framework of current legislation, we can adopt, as always, the so - called rules of the internal order. And a lot of the rectors that I'm communicating with, and let's say, in the part of smoking, when I was aspiring for this law to be adopted, they made their own decisions, well, there's a council scientist, there's self-governing institutions, they're making decisions about how to normalize this problem. Today, enough legislation is in place for school principals and university directors to sort out the problem. And for us, it was fashionable for us to declare territories free, so I think today enough force to announce the territory of schools and schools free of alcohol and tobacco is enough legislation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u8	Koutunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u9	Kovtunenko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Mikolo, do you think that the law should be more cruel than you suggest, since beer is indeed an alcoholic drink and should really be cruelly attached to alcoholic beverages. As far as tobacco is concerned. Indeed, the use of our young, women, of tobacco is to a large extent the part that reduces our population. We now know that we have only 45 million because of the use of tobacco and alcohol. Don't you think that legislation needs to be adopted more harshly than you did, but let's say so. Today I support your bill because it is extremely necessary for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u10	I've already informed you, fellow colleagues, that I'm with Ludmila Stasov, who's concerned with the health issue, who's registered the bill, and we've had a public discussion of this bill, and he's now with the Committee on Finance and Banking, which concerns two very important things -- it's the formalization of low-alcoholic beverages, because not only beer, cocktails are even more evil, especially in Ukrainian execution, as they are mixed up to take them to the category of alcoholic beverages and spread all the prohibitions that are in the current legislation and to this kind of drink. Unfortunately, so far, the committee, you know, has not considered this issue. As far as toughness is concerned, I think we should get this job started. I'm aware that this is about a serious business lobby. I know that local self - government cooperates and receives funds there. So I'm an MP, an experienced MP, and I think we need to do the things that we're ready to accept, but it's a step down to get this job started.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u11	Cemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Deputy Udovenko Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u13	You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mustafa-aga. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, well, any ban makes me shake first, because we've been through this before. In the sad times of Ligachev and the vineyards, we cut off and fought alcohol, and now we have come to advertising. It might be advisable to address the question of how to teach people how to drink, switch to natural dry wines, promote Ukrainian red wine, white wine, and switch to cocktails -- as you say everywhere, with a positive outcome. And forbid it. You know, the forbidden fruit is better, and it will not contribute to the fight against alcoholism or the use of tobacco in the middle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u15	Please answer. Mikola Volodymyrovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u16	I think the culture of drinking is a very complex science. I’m not old enough to teach young people, I feel that I’m an inexperienced person. If, for example, television would turn, and Hennady Josephovich was telling us how to do it right, I think we can do it, but the problem is that what I'm proposing is done in the whole world, and I'm not here original, and we're looking for the methods that are tested. It's about psychological, whether conscious, or not conscious, influence over young people, because bright outdoor advertising is a medium that is very effective, and psychologists have repeatedly shown in their research that the influence of external advertising is followed by television advertising. And so if we understand that this is a disaster for Ukraine, and I said about numbers, of course, it's one of the tools that will help.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u17	Yuchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u18	Peter Andryovich. Landik. Yes, there is, Vladimir Ivanovich is. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u19	Well, I have a question, well, first of all, I support the statement of Widow, our colleague, that we have to fight evil itself, not these shields, not this commercial. Because it kind of goes the other way around, it's all done, and you had this opportunity when you were in the Cabinet of Ministers, Vice Prime Minister, you had to do it. Now it goes to us, to our solstice. And now let's ban these shields. Look, we're free to make saman, and it's supported. Everyone's so funny about it. Why don't we start with the first one, first of all, ban self - cooking and start learning the right way to drink beer, wine, and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u20	Thank you. I think you see everything, we have a creative discussion here. If the Party of Regions starts fighting against self-refoulement, I agree. If you consider one of the strategic tasks, you can start fighting alone. But I want to say again, obviously you've listened. As Vice-Prime Minister, I have not just discussed this issue with my colleagues, we have developed such a bill, it has been registered, it has been referred to the Supreme Council, and unfortunately, the previous Supreme Council has not put it to a vote because of different circumstances. Moreover, once again, I would like to point out that we are full allies here, because one of the leaders of your team, Raisa Bogotirov, is my co-author under the same Law in the previous call. It's just that there's obviously not enough political will in the last call to start this work. I understand it's a very big business, it's about 30% of the earnings on the outside. But if this debate is honest, I have to say that this advertising business is the very "dirty" business, it's people who are close to the local government, they get it all, they don't put a penny in it, and they make money on children. I find that unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u21	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u22	I'm going to report on this, so I'm handing the word to my colleague, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u23	Thank you. I, Mikola Volodymyrovich, wanted to ask. First of all, well, that's all we say and do in the Supreme Council, it doesn't find support in those structures that should be followed when beer is advertised at all, beer is a good drink, but when it's advertised in a children's broadcast, in a break between a children's show, a children's movie, it's if it requires, well, as a minimum, some kind of reaction. So I think that under these circumstances it is necessary to react to things like this, beyond this -- a direct violation of even the standards that we have now adopted. So I think that under the circumstances, not only does it have to be clearly defined that beer is an alcoholic drink, but at least, even if it's weak, it doesn't have the right to advertise in children's broadcasts, because, in principle, it doesn't have to be, it doesn't even have to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u24	That's the right warning. What's more, I'll say it's illegal under the law. Apparently, the network of television and radio is not responding. We still have a State Committee on Standardization, and so on, which should have the same effect on this situation, it protects us, consumers, from it. And I'm the only one, and under the influence of the advice of two older and experienced people, I'd like to say that actually things like this are more important to our children than they are formal. When we don't have the understanding that it can't be fashionable and until I start criticizing my colleagues of our great athletes, Andria Shevchenko and the Klitschko brothers, who thought it was perfectly normal for young people to say that, well, after sports, you can have a beer, relax. Until society lives up to this idea that it is not money to make money, but society, children to protect, as long as we are in the last place by the number of people who smoke and drink alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u25	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I have another question. I'm going to take this opportunity. Couldn't we put in some kind of differential advertising fee? For example, if sports are advertised, world champions from mathematics, physics, computerization, or whatever, and we have them in KPI, at Lugansk Technical University, or whatever, there are cheaper or no advertising fees. And where other bad spots are advertised, let them pay as they need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u26	Part of what we have is social advertising. We have, if you're putting on social ads, it's usually almost on a free or partially free basis. The only thing I want to remind you is that social advertising, some people don't realize that it can't advertise a fund, a party, a specific person, can attract attention to social evil, problems, then it can be placed free of charge. You might think, as you say, also differentiate in the pay system. But the problem is not just pay, they earn channels, advertising agencies, and so on. Then you might think, for example, that it is not social advertising that accounts for social advertising but, for example, for sports, culture, or something else. Such an approach can also be taken. In many lands such an approach is taking place that, for example, it is passed on to such a spiritual, cultural, or sports sphere from what it earns. But this needs to be amended by the Advertising Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u27	Okay. Thank you. The next one will report from the committee, right? Please. Oh, I'm sorry. Insomnia? And Pupkov told me that he was, so I thought he was. No, no, no, no, no, no. Please. I'm sorry. Who will speak from the committee? Please. The incorruptible also introduces his bill as the author of the bill. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u28	Yeah. Insomnia, “Our Ukraine”. There is a misunderstanding here, the second bill, which I would like to highlight, the honourable national MPs, the bill that is now being proposed to your mind, is not essentially an alternative to the previous one, because it concerns only one article of the law on advertising, namely tobacco and alcohol advertising, and mine contains nine legislative proposals. So he's absorbing the previous bill. And given that when the law changes the law that is already in force, then we change the law on advertising, we can, when we prepare it for second reading, only the law that is adopted on the basis, we can shorten it, but we cannot complement it. So, if you accept my bill as a basis, then the positions you've set out, I think, convincingly by Mikola Volodymyrovich, we can count his position. If I don't accept my law, then these 8 proposals, which are, by the way, undoubtedly what I have, and I don't have it, they're just going to be lost. For example, the Advertising Act now prohibits the use of the names of public authorities or state symbols, such as the coat of arms of Ukraine, for example, hymn fragments, without being allowed to be used in advertising. That's very true, but you can now use the symbols of local self-governance, for example, the coat of arms of cities, the names of the popular organs of local self-governance, free of charge and without permission. And that's used. That's not right. This should make at least profit and local self-government, that is, all of us with you, and the budgets of local self-government will win, that is, the money of the territorial communities. Well, another problem for example is eight. So we know that the National Council for Television and Radio Communication, unfortunately, ineffectively controls advertising. Well, no limit, it's made on television and radio, but the law says that advertising, well, controlling authorities are executive authorities, and the National Council on Television and Radio is not an executive body. It's an organ of state. It would seem legislative, well, petty, but it really spoils the mood, not just the mood, but our information space. So I think that on the basis of this bill we're just destined to take if we don't deny that twenty-four times and that advertising can help people, not harm them. Then, with regard to that article, which is common to both bills and the most resonant, it's tobacco and alcohol advertising, we'll be able to correct it and take it to the final version: either Mikli Volodymyrovich's version, or the one I'm proposing, or go to the third edition. What is the difference between our approaches to tobacco and alcohol advertising? In fact, the bill that came before me, it limits, it only prohibits advertising externally, in fact, it's advertising side-boards. In my view, this is not enough and not only is it necessary to advertise a healthy way of life in general. And if we think that tobacco and vodka are part of a healthy way of life, then we shouldn't limit this advertising at all, or maybe even spend money and advertise it as social. But if we feel that these are habits that are harmful, which are not to be advertised, imposed, involved, and encouraged to consume. If society is protecting, if the government is protecting society from these things, then it's logical to ban it, not only on the sideboards, but also, for example, ban the advertising of vodka on television. What's there now and what I'm proposing to cancel, the vodka should come out of the TV, too, for example, from the radio. So here's the difference in our approaches. I'm proposing, in fact, that we spread to advertising vodka and tobacco the standards that are now for arms advertising. I mean, who works in the field and who's interested, they're going to advertise in exhibitions in special exhibitions. One more moment when we're making advertising legislation. Not only should we think about the advertising market and not just our contemporaries, we should think about the future of our nation, be responsible, be innocent babies, be guilty or drinkers may be their parents, but those unwitting legislators who encourage advertisers to impose wine and vodka on society. Therefore, it is not necessary to translate responsibility into them; it is not necessary to tempt advertisers with cheap, sloppy wages for healthy nations. If we have a splinter of responsibility to society, before its future. We simply have to support the bill. What is the potential compromise? Here, in order to be realistic in dealing with this problem. Very simple. And I'm offering it. We must, we can impose restrictions and bans on such unjust advertising in stages. That is, since January 1, 2007, to ban external advertising, such as television commercials. This may be the subject of a professional discussion. But, of course, we should be guided by the achievements of a civilization that promotes and promotes a healthy way of life, of course, by other people, in other countries. But above all, take care of Ukraine, Ukraine, our contemporaries, our future. And so thank you for your attention. And I look forward to supporting the bill, despite perhaps even the previous decisions that have been made in factions without taking into account all the importance and all the circumstances associated with the situation. Who has decided to vote against earlier, I think he will understand the importance of the matter and review his point of view. Thank you again for your attention. And I hope, and I'm actually convinced of your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u29	Boris Yakovitch is so much more persuasive, I see no one wants to ask questions? Will they? No questions asked. Is it? Please, then, Yavorowski is preparing, and everyone is recording. Yavorowski, follow him, Grigorovitch. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u30	Dear colleague, dear reporter, during the speech of Mikola Tomenka, our colleague from the Party of the Regions said that fighting against shields is not worth fighting against. As you think, it's an attempt at a folk sanctuary, because we have sammon, it's really the most important thing. And if it isn't anti-national politics. That's the first one. And second, the shields. In order to bring the votes here, say the communists and someone else to vote in favour of this bill, you might want to just take it and say that instead of these shields that advertise vodka there, it will be written "Party and people are the only ones" and not tell which party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u31	As for Sam, I don't think he should be advertised and distributed either, but I agree that he belongs in the ethnographic museum of Ukraine and so be it. And with regard to the position of the colleague that you took from the faction of the Party of the Regions, do you know how? They say, "Let us not solve any questions until all other issues are resolved." Until all the thieves are transplanted, you can't take back the documents, the counterfeiters, until all the killers are sitting. The question has to be solved as it goes in life, in parallel: there is a problem that these boards don't just spoil our cities, but they spoil our health -- so they have to be banned. There's another problem. And it's just, I think so, avoidance, trying to motivate actually not vote. With regard to the Communist factions, they will speak for themselves, but I have no reason to doubt, for example, that they will choose the health of the nation rather than the interests of the advertising market magnets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u32	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u33	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Boris Jacobovich, after listening to your report, I understand that you have a deeper approach, because fighting this evil is not just a normal run-board, but, above all, an advertisement that flows from all the channels to our children's heads and souls. At the same time, I'd like to ask you this question: do you not think that fighting only with boards or self-creating will deliberately narrow down the problem? That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to ask a broader question. It often seems like he's losing the budget of countries, the producers of this product are losing, and I'd like to ask, in what billions of dollars do we count the amount that will win the whole society and our national progress?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Well, first of all, neither my bill nor Mikolia Volodymyrovich's bill apply to use. And in fact, the problems of Sam in this case are not regulated because they are not advertised. But I agree with the deep concept of Lilia Grigorovna, Lilia Stepanovna. Well, look, we want to win a penny in a commercial somewhere and lose it in health. But, Lord, if we neglect the economy, there will really be nothing to eat, but if we neglect the health of the nation, no one will eat it, and what will they need it for? Then let's 10 times the cost of treatment. But there is still a better way to limit the use of poison in society, which is unfortunately being advertised today. And as for television, I insist, of course, that we limit it right now, we have to ban not only these boards, but the vodka has to go away from television beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u35	Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u36	Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! Dear Boris Jakovic, Mikola Volodymyrovich! I generally support your approach to this colossal state problem. And what I'm saying is that your two bills should form the basis of a broader state-wide programme. I'd like, in particular, to stop, really, the problem of what's going on in the sport of this unconscionable, dishonest advertising. Today, the whole country knows and hears every day that these trademarks are being advertised as part of the Ukrainian Sports Support Program. I want to tell all the MPs, all the state, there's no program to support Ukrainian sports. That's not true. But given the evil that this is doing to our sport, to the health of the nation, which you are speaking about perfectly, there should be such a program, and there should be a countdown as said by Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. So it's a very topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u37	I thank you for your support, and I fully share the position that was actually in your speech on the program. But we need to start, and we need to take concrete real steps. Yes, what I'm proposing and what Mikola Volodymyrovich is offering, it doesn't solve all the questions. But this is also a serious step. This is indeed a breakthrough in our concern for the health of the nation, not the other way around. So I hope that you will also be supported by the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u38	That's what happened. That's not what Corge asked. Please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u39	Another Corge?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u41	Please pass the word to my colleague, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Well, I'm not afraid of that word, I'm sure that all the sober-minded people in this room clearly support the ideology proposed by both Nicholas Tomenck and Boris Bespall. I can also say as Head of the Committee that this movement is unanimously supported by all members of the committee of all five factions. Why we did it. Because we realize that if we care for a healthy nation, we need to protect our children from direct tobacco and alcohol advertising. In doing so, of course, we need to know that for a successful inactive market and advertising market to succeed, these changes need to be made in stages. That's why the committee supported the next strategy. This is the first step, we're missing, we're giving green light to these bills, we're creating a working group for careful second reading. Question to the reporter. How do you see a gradual movement in the direction that is proposed? That's probably what's most disturbing to the industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u44	Well, first of all, I do see that we have to adopt legal standards that don't apply to tobacco and alcohol, just to improve legislation. And I have these standards, some of them I called. There they do not cause contention to improve legislation. As for the gradual ban, I am convinced that tobacco and alcohol advertising should really start from the beginning the most, well where the problem has matured. I mean, it's an outdoor commercial or a board run and it's a television vodka. I'd give a little bit of permission to do this kind of advertising, not on the first and last pages, but in the print media that's happening today, well, on the way to development, where there's a worse material base. They find it very difficult to enter a competitive market. I'd take them maybe to the second stage of this. But I think there should be no advertising. And in summary, advertising for alcohol and tobacco should only be where I suggest it, only at special exhibitions of specialized editions, but it will no longer be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u45	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u46	Yes, this will be information for industry workers and interested persons. And another thing I didn't say in the speech. We're approaching differentially. And for elite wines, namely, wine, champagne, and wine of controlled appointment, which is wine, where the whole process of growing grapes and using is strictly controlled. There is a weakening of advertising requirements because it is an element of our culture. And in this regard, my bill is in line with the Grapes and Vines Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u47	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u48	Dear colleague, tell me, do you support such an initiative to create an interfractional unification of non-smoking MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u49	Of course. I am surprised that you do not extend your initiative to those MPs who do not drink.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u50	Please do not extend this initiative because there will be much discussion. Pedestrian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u51	Well, I'm ready to join those who don't smoke. I really don't smoke or burn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, I am neither a smoker nor a proponent of drinking in public places. But I do have one question. What specific figure will the budget, especially local budgets, be lacking as a result of the adoption and implementation of this law, and what new sources of budgeting are you proposing to cover this deficit? If we accept this now, and we have a budget adoption process, there will be problems. So I have another proposition. In the "Transitional positions" write that the introduction of this bill will take place if it is adopted, for example, since 2008. But for the time being, find the sources of this deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u53	I think the question deserves attention. Right now we're making a budget and we need to look for these reserves. Although I would like to emphasize, if you look strategically, for the 2009/2010 budget, that's the only thing that's going to win. And the thing is, the advertising market is so full of not only tobacco and alcohol, and we've got political advertising, and the boards aren't running. There's a lot of advertising in the field of communication and so on, but given that we really need to reorganize such contracts, I think we should let the advertising market restructure for six months, and that's the right approach in this part. But this is no reason for the bill to fail, otherwise, by referring to the loss of the budget today, we will lose "tomorrow". And "tomorrow" is not just for the budget, it is "tomorrow" for the country, for Ukraine. That's a lot worse, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u55	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council has before it two bills relating to amendments to the Advertising Act of Ukraine. The Tomenko Bill is intended to prohibit the advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages on external advertising media. Boris Bespalog's bill prohibits any tobacco and alcohol advertising in general. The two projects are therefore strategically similar. Last week, another similar bill was submitted to the subcommittee by Valeria Pisarenko. In addition, proposals to improve the Advertising Act by representatives of the mass media and the advertising industry. The Subcommittee calculated that Law 1044 demonstrated an electoral approach. Only outdoor advertising was selected from existing channels of advertising. The lack of adequate financial and economic justification, namely, not taking into account the tax losses of local budgets, as well as the revolutionary timetable for implementation, are also significant shortcomings of the bill. Such a bill would benefit the large producers of tobacco and alcohol, as well as newspapers and magazines, who hoped that the advertisement would move to their pages. The experience of several countries has shown that restrictions on advertising for alcohol and tobacco consumption have not been reduced. Only redistribution of market shares between producers is taking place. It was therefore decided that the best thing to do should be brought together, reasonable in a single bill, which the subcommittee would submit to registration only on days. The Subcommittee finalized the terminology of the Advertising Act and streamlined the rules for the placement of advertisers. We have been guided by the fact that the legal instrument must move forward in time, meet the needs of society and be free of emotion. The strong position of the subcommittee is that the ban on tobacco and alcohol advertising is gradual and evolutionary. Moreover, Ukraine has 5 years to implement these norms. I recall that Ukraine has ratified the framework convention of the world health organization that gives us that right. Even nuclear weapons have been phased out of Ukraine. Unlike the bills of Tomenko and Bespalogo, the subcommittee proposes to tighten the deadline, and we propose to tighten the approach. This does not seem populism, namely, to prohibit tobacco and alcohol advertising in educational institutions, newspapers, cinemas, theaters, sports competitions, concerts and theatres. As far as the subcommittee is aware, the BUT faction has decided to vote in favour of a tougher draft. So Tomenko's option is not good for that. If BUT does vote in favour of the bill, it is likely only for one reason to support its faction colleague. I wish to say that the Committee has decided to allow the Tomenko Bill to be proposed for first reading. But my personal opinion is that he needs to be removed. Thank you for your attention. And no matter who has harmful habits, I wish everyone good health.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u56	The question is to the reporter? Chewchenko? Please. And you want, Jaroslav Mikhailovich? And Dry. Two questions, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u57	You know, we have a unique situation, because the committee reporter, I'm going to take the liberty of saying that I totally distorted the committee's decision, which was adopted unanimously, including by the vote of Helen Bondarenko. And I really want to say some unpleasant words. I'm just sick and tired of hearing that the laws banning the advertising of alcohol and tobacco are being stopped by the summons, and I'm tired of hearing that tens of millions of dollars are being spent buying MPs and factions so that this ban is not implemented. I think it demeans the Supreme Council and humiliates the industry when they talk about it. So once again, I would like to testify to the committee's position: it was unanimously decided to support the Tomenka bill in the first reading and to draft the Bespalogo bill at the second reading stage. I have a question to the reporter, what has personally affected your decision? You voted in favour, you didn't make any other arguments that we heard today. Today you are expressing a different position. Thank you, Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u58	Thank you, Andrei. I can tell you that Tomenko's position has affected him, which can't be determined, is he going to set a time limit or not? Why then comment to some economic publications on his firm stand? I mean, he doesn't respect the treaty relationship we had with him. And as for bribery, you know, I really agree with you. Tomenko had introduced the bill in the past and had not brought it to an end. So what did he do for four years?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u59	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u60	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear colleagues! I'll take a minute to ask. I want to ask you all, in Ukraine, almost 200,000 drug addicts, even though one of them got on a needle through an ad? Did you see a poppy head running around? Even though one of them started drinking because he saw "Portway" on the commercial? Did he start smoking because “Malborough” or the humpback camel? What are you doing here? These bills affect the income of the local budgets. We want to show that you are the most holy of the popes: you do not smoke, do not drink, all are so orderly! Tell me, because, Olena Anatolyevna, once again, will the adoption of these bills affect the local budgets that these two fractions of bucimto care about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u61	Yes, absolutely. I can tell you they'll answer that. They'll say that the health of the nation is priceless, and we understand that, and no one is arguing with it. But the fact remains that there are no compensatory mechanisms. And the disastrous times that both Bespallai and Tomenko are proposing to impose a ban are striking. We've got five years, what's our hurry? We have an income of 70 million bracelets per city in Kiev this year. Of these, 40 percent is advertising alcohol and tobacco. But the problem is that it does not solve the problem of consumption. Literally in the first phase. It's only possible through generations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u62	Tomenko asks the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u63	Honorable colleagues and a distinguished reporter. I just want to say that there's this thing called the ethics of an MP and then there's this thing called the ethics of human relationships. The MP's ethics are that we're the people's deputies, not the paid representatives of the business. If, for example, advertisers, if.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u64	Exactly. Exactly, Nikolai Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u65	Please do not interrupt the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u66	If advertisers pay someone money and he does his job, he can do it, but he cannot use the status of a deputy to say some inadequate, mildly speaking, things to protect the business. Because we need to protect society first. And let the advertisers pay the wage managers. The Committee on Budgets concludes that there is nothing to be lost. The pockets of advertisers and companies that are now five or ten in Ukraine are lost. These companies are mayor friends, friends of governors, and they spit on these kids and make money. So I'm willing to compromise, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u67	Nikolai Vladimirovich, you must have listened very badly to me. I said that you don't prohibit advertising in printed publications, and you know where the money will go. And when you spoke to the committee, you implied it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u68	But there, Olena Anatolyevna, I beg you. Take it easy. Chukmasov asked questions. But it says not to put it on the first and last page and so on. Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u69	Yeah, but the thing is, it's inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u70	Please, Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Chukmasov, the faction of the social party. Alan Anatolyevna, you know, I'd like to get a good look at those two bills, and I think there's a reasonable grain here. Of course, what the authors didn't learn today, and we can see it on TV, and when we broadcast the movies, when part of the commercial is being used underfoot, when there's a bottle with an inscription, we see it in a lot of movies, a pack of cigarettes. What about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u72	It's very simple. I have already said that the subcommittee on advertising, which I am leading, has drafted its bill, including your proposals. First, we suggest that tobacco and alcohol should be excluded from the advertising of cigarette packs, which are used by alcohol and bottles. This is the first stage. I can say that, according to our bill, we are going to ban the advertising of alcohol and tobacco in Ukraine on all channels of transmission and advertising until 2009, that is, many or small, we have two years left with tail.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to share in the discussion? They want to speak to the MPs. Sign up for the factions. Herman, Moses, Philindash and Chewchenko from factions. Now, please sign in. Anna Mikolayevna, wait a minute. Please, Herman speaks from the Party of Regions. Well, 30 minutes, 15 minutes. That's enough to talk about. No, you have three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, when I listened here to the discussion and proposals of the bill, I thought of that. While there is no drug commercial in Ukraine, drug abuse is on the rise. That is, we do not achieve anything as normal as this. We are merely pretending to fight noblely for the health of the nation, as has been said here. For the health of the nation, perhaps we should fight more complexly, and we should think about how to give work to those tens of thousands of young people who walk through the Christian Church and do nothing, looking for places to drink, and how to smoke. We have to think about how to give work to those many older men who lose it and sing about not having a job, that's where to solve the problem. We should not fashion those who smoke, drink, and use drugs. About 1986, in Munich, I saw this advertisement: a huge shield, painted by a Soviet militiaman and a girl of light behavior, and it says, "This is what they drink and smoke." And every German who looked at this ad may have thought: “I probably wouldn’t want to be like these people, if I took a cigarette in my teeth, I’d be like them and say I’m like him.” That is, we have to go another deeper way. Of course, it's a very noble thing to fight the advertising of alcohol and the advertising of tobacco. But when I'm on the 5th channel, I see how people are told and told how to kill, how to shoot, and how to shoot them, I think, first of all, we need to think about banning the likes and advertising. And in general, we have to go to all of this in the complex, think deeply, take the basis now for the ideas that Mr. Tomenko and Mr. Vanity have made. To think deeply about a new bill, all of them to consult together to fight not only the consequences but the reasons, for no one has yet achieved anything by ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u75	Moses wants to speak from “Our Ukraine. ” Yes, please, Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u76	Lila Grigorovitch faction "Our Ukraine" Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainian community! And you know, and this is how I listened to our discussion, these trends that are moving around or hiding in our hall, the speeches that have already begun, I wanted to suggest something completely different -- and let's not do anything. Why do something? Let's not do anything, let's stay as it is. That is all the more so, for generations to come. But today there are children in the family of every Ukrainian family who are 6, 8, 10 and will be born more, for we have stood still for 8.5,000 dollars. That's it. Remember, literally, the recent election campaign that you've been asked by old teachers, mothers. They asked you to do something about this commercial, and we understand that you can't give us money right now, because instead of a price of $95,000 per cubic meter, today, listen to no more than 135, and 168 is predicted. People understand that and let them draw conclusions. But they asked if you could get that commercial. So when they go out to the rostrum today and they say, let's not do anything for generations, I want to report that, over a generation, 20 years from now, there's nothing to do, because we're good here, because we're both manufacturers and legislators ourselves, the population of Ukraine can shrink below 40 million citizens. This is what the urge to do nothing for the future looks like today. I wouldn't compare two terrible disasters, such as drug abuse and alcoholism or smoking, because drug addiction is such a planetary disaster that creeps into every crevice, even without advertising. And tobacco, especially alcohol use, is something that spontaneously or subconsciously, is necessarily absorbed in habits, in lifestyles, in the admiration of young people when they see cool, uplifted athletes who themselves may not be doing it, but are willing to relax in leisure. In view of that, I believe that today our Parliament is honoring a test of dignity and morality. Either we do nothing and let people record those who are so good or we will do something, for Europe has long done so. And if someone today thinks that it is Euro integration and is afraid of it, then Euro integration is that the poster “Let them drink and that’s them” can be attached to a hall that refuses to start doing anything today. Undoubtedly, the Bezpalego bill has a deeper logic, but it doesn't matter what we're going to take as a basis. I want these two bills to be combined and voted in the first reading and let's see who came to Parliament and what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u77	Filindash Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u78	Thank you, Eugene Filindash, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, after the Institute, I was able to work as a teacher at a regular Kyiv school. And you know, what I saw there was just terrible. All the students, the vast majority of the students, already starting from the seventh, some of the eighth, or the ninth, under the influence of, first of all, the advertisements, are already starting to drink beer, smoke and girls, here's actually the statistics that were quoted here, it really does happen, the girls here are already ahead of the boys. Think of your past and most of us, at least. Such drunkenness and smoking among young people were not yet twenty years ago. And the main reason is that now young people, and first of all women, future mothers, are starting to drink and smoke at the age of 14-15-16. The main reason why this epidemic is total right now is because it's advertising, because the mentality of teenagers, the psyche of young people, is the kind of thing that responds first of all to what's prestigious, to what's fashionable. And if they see it from all sides of the commercial and they see it as cool and that people are advertising in the house and so on and so on, and so on, they're following it, it's psychology, which, well, it's nowhere to be from. Other reasons, it's clear that there's another reason, yes. But drug addiction in its own time began, including from films that began to appear and where it was also not always a negative assessment, and from other things. So I think, of course, these bills should be adopted today in the first reading and this is the position of our faction. And all the things that were added, the changes that were being proposed today, could be added and sent to the second reading. But these laws are certainly necessary. We should not act in a stupid way by banning it, because, in fact, it would be a forbidden fruit sweet. But we don't prohibit the use of alcohol and tobacco, we don't just allow the mentality of children and adolescents to be influenced so that they think it's good and cool and fashionable. Here's what we're proposing. I believe that the hall should support this because it is the health of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Shevchenko Andri Vitaliovich, Yulia Block Timoshenko - What's next? Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u80	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! I have a stable sense of where I live. Four years ago, standing here on this stand, we, I passed the law, voted in favour of a total ban on advertising alcohol and tobacco on all carriers. He was vindicated by the President and we rolled back again. Next call. Old Tomenko, back again. And the same is always true of the argument that, moles, advertising is not advertising, let's look at the root. Media researcher Gordon McCluen said, "Let's not lie to each other, advertising is an undeclared war of human consciousness." In the United States, smoking is an epidemic, and it is a struggle to fight AIDS and typhoid and so on. In Europe, too. In the United States, there is a formula in public consciousness: smoking is extremely dangerous, it reduces human life by at least ten years. This is supported by advertising, whether you can smoke or you can live, it's not dependent, it's fifty-fifty; or you can drink and be long-lived. It's a formula that lives in the public consciousness of our CIS countries in China. And these countries, so-called the gold billion, are benefiting. Today we will begin to vote and very quickly, thanks to fellow socialists, they are willing to vote, confident that they will support the Communist colleagues, I know that it is not a simple sentiment in the faction of the regions. Vote calmly when you think about the future. And it's just these laws that we're taking a step. We've been melting for a long time. And it's amazing to hear from my colleague Bondarenko that we have four years to go. First, it had indeed distorted the Committee's position completely. On the committee, we voted unanimously in favour of supporting these bills. It's a simple step, you know, it's a simple step in the right direction. It's very difficult. We've been on the ground for decades. Of course, it’s amazing that we have a sport that has to do with alcohol. It's like we have a formula for sports, you're an alcoholic. That's not right. If we're going to Europe, Alexander Alexandrovich, I quote you. You said Europe should be built here. So today, let's decide, are we going to Europe? Are we doing this little thing? And how do we do it? With a cigarette in your hand and a bottle in your pocket? So once again, I urge you to support Bespalogo's bills, Tomenko, and just to understand that this is a very small step, very small. If we don't do it, we're going to be trampling around here, and then we're going to be so hypocritically asking, "What did Tomenko do for four years?" They're going to ask us all what we did here for four years, they're going to ask, "What did Tomenko do for four years?"
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine One of the speakers urged us to discuss the subject without emotion. But I feel that there is no need for emotion here, for we do not have work and emotions. I listened attentively to two performances, which were actually alternative in their foundation to two lovely and intelligent women, Lilia Grigorovitch and Hanna Herman. Of course, I support and support Lily Grigorovich's position, because we should eventually do this, these first steps. Because it's clear why we can't make a decision over a couple of phone calls, it seems like a pretty obvious question, or a completely obvious problem. After all, we all know that smoking and alcohol abuse are harmful. It is certainly necessary to vote on the basis of the Bills of Mikli Tomenka and Boris Bespalogo, and the faction of the Socialist Party, as Eugene Filindash said, will support this proposal. There were, to some extent, alternative suggestions that could be viewed as an attempt to revive the hall. Indeed, given the mentality of our people, it is premature to talk about a culture of drinking alcoholic beverages. Restrictive measures are needed. And what MPs Tomenko and Bespali offer is perfectly normal. The nation of Israel was mentioned here, where I often have to be. Indeed, there is two levels of alcoholism lower than our country’s, because there is no advertising, no television, no newspapers, and so on and so forth. But you can, you know, if we complain about restrictions on the grounds that citizens' freedoms are limited, it's a long way to go, and I don't just want to run a parallel. At the same time, we know that the means, especially television, are coming to our children's zombies and listen to what they repeat, especially when they watch and so on. And here, indeed, the business interests of certain persons are affected, but health, the genetic foundation of the nation is far more important. It seems to me that only those who do not want the health of the nation will not vote today to take the first step in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u83	We're done discussing this subject, these projects. Are you insisting on the closing word? Please, Bezpali. Are you insisting, too? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! First. Thank you to all the participants in the discussion. The other one. I thank the leadership in this case to the Parliament for setting this law important for a full discussion procedure, not for a short one. Third. My bill is not a thorough, reckless idiotic ban on something, it's also selective, and tobacco and alcohol advertising can be done, but only where? Only in the relevant specialized editions! Only in premises that are directly traded! And only at appropriate advertising or exhibitions, such as gun advertising! I mean, who wants to know and who's interested in it, they can find out about it. And the commercial of champagne, the wine of the collection and the wine of the elite controlled appointment, it's the best conditions there, which is also fair. The next moment. Local budgets. We've just studied this issue while the discussion is under way. So, expensive second, the local budgets will lose 0 copies and 0 bracelets, they won't lose anything because in local budgets advertisers pay depending on the area of the installed billboard or there, if it's not a shield, from the advertising area, even if it's empty. And none of these shields will be dismantled. So nothing is going to lose local budgets, or, by the way, road budgets, where it's on roads, highways, out-of-populated areas. So that's a sticky argument. And in general, these are all the conversations that we need, but deeper, wider, later be honest, say, never should, and we've poisoned, poisoned, and poisoned Ukrainians. So say it, and stand your ground. But I don't think you're going to be poisoning, because Parliament is going to ban it from you, and the first step he's going to do is literally take a few minutes to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u85	Mikola Tomenko makes the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I wanted to pay attention to young deputies and experts in responsibility for what we're saying. Every time I propose a bill, some things, I don't write down one of the journals, or look somewhere. I'm working on such a bill with experts, experts, and at the very least, I'm conducting more than one study or discussion. I have this style of work, so when someone thinks it fell out of the sky, that man is wrong. Because this idea, once again, has been debated in this room for three or four years. And I'm really the systemic lobbyist of most Ukrainian citizens who don't smoke. Now, less of us today, two years ago in Ukraine, there was no 61%, now there is 59, and the dynamic is that we can quickly get a young generation that will take first place in the world of smoking. Alcohol is a separate subject without touching it. There were large health professionals who said that drugs should be treated. You don't read books? What Is the Nature of Drug Abuse? But addiction comes from tobacco, from alcohol, from this way of life. And AIDS, look at what we have on AIDS! Today, we have non-portable cities, as it was, today we have AIDS, the largest indicators in the rural area. Because in a poor rural area, we already have tobacco, alcohol, and AIDS. Today we have the highest smoking rates, not in cities, but in rural areas, where, by the way, east, in the center of Ukraine, where we have never seen such indicators. About money, local budgets will always raise money when they think a little bit about how to deal with external advertising. Because they would rather work to promote our factories, economic brands, social ads, and raise money than wait for alcoholic companies to bring the money to them. And no one will lose, and the Budget Committee clearly confirms that. I also inform young people about newspapers and magazines worldwide that newspapers and magazines, and we in Ukraine are banned from advertising on the first and last pages. And when you buy and bring home, you do not take the responsibility that a neighbor can read besides you. But when a kid comes out of a kindergarten and faces an outside commercial, it's a conscience to say that evil is an advertisement in a magazine, and there's no harm to people in outdoor advertising. So I would like to call everyone to account. Once again, there is no need for lobbyists in the Supreme Council to be paid for by alcohol factories or tobacco factories. Here we are all protecting our society, and in this is the historic mission of the Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Let us take a brief summary of our discussion and make a decision. Because the subject is really important. [[B in m in s a l in]] With motive? Please, we don't have motive in the Rules. You can take the floor if the faction gives you the benefit of the doubt because the faction of the regions did not speak for it. Please. She's not from the faction. Oh, I'm sorry. Then it's one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u88	Out of motive, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one minute. I'm asking for your attention. Since the lively discussion is going on, we're being consulted right now, and we, I'm sure, all of us here in the hall understand how important this problem is. And it's important not only for the BUT faction or our Ukraine, it's important for the entire Ukrainian people, including the Communists, we see, we support, and the Party of Regions, and the Socialists. What's the offer from the faction of the Party of Regions? We invite you now, as the first bill to be voted on will be the Mikoli Tomenka Bill, which raises some debates, and the second one goes to Mr Bespalogo's more elaborate bill, we invite “Our Ukraine” not to support the first bill, but to vote together. By the way, it's not just our Ukraine and the BUT faction. And to support Mr. Bespalogo's very own bill so that we can work on it, taking into account all those observations, is a profound and balanced law that would settle this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u89	Please. Please, don't worry. Calm down. No one's advertised yet, and you're making noise. Please. The problem is serious. It's not a coincidence that we're having such a hard discussion. Although I thought it would be easier for her to go through this discussion. None of the drafters propose to prohibit, for example, drinking. The propaganda of drunkenness is forbidden. And I think they're both right here. And I want to make it clear. Hanna Herman, speaking out, was an invalidity in the discussion about her, she offered to adopt the first and second laws as a basis. That's also a fact. And then we have to divide this problem into two parts. We have an adult drinker, not because there is an advertisement, but because he drinks from the dead. Today, the village was sleeping, not because they were watching commercials, but because the children were nowhere to be seen. But there is a need to root out the fashion for drinking, for smoking. In order not to be shown on TV how the young man goes with the bottle overturned, this is popularized as fashion. We need to promote a healthy lifestyle. If you show Santa Tomenck that he's running now or playing football, or Anatoly Pisarenko, who, his businesses are releasing tobacco, and he wants this case not to be advertised, because the record that he put in his pants 20 years ago is still unstoppable. And he can't stop because the deputy works, he doesn't have time for that. Therefore, we need to turn to the promotion of a healthy way of life. Take the road in Kiev or anywhere in Ukraine. Here's a resort, a casino, a drink, a cigarette -- nowhere I've seen any billboards, hammers, scales to be. Nobody's promoting it because it's not fashionable, you see. I think that if we don't stop this process, if we don't make a policy of propaganda a healthy way of life, we really will all turn into a nation where man walks, talks and drinks begin at the same time. It's just a big trouble. So I would like to vote on the basis of both laws and unite them, and on second reading, I would like to submit one coherent project that will reflect all the proposals made here by the MPs. So in order to come to the discussion, I'm putting to the vote a project reported by Nicholas Tomenko, 1044, and I'm asking you to support it. It's based on both the bills. [[11:31:35]] For 226 Copy that. And the Bespalogo project is also based on a first-reading vote. Once they are united, I ask again. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:31:57]] For 399 I propose to put these two projects together in a single document. Please support me. Put these two documents together in one document. [[11:32:18]] For 399 Thank you, 399. And I ask that the proponents and committees work on the second reading so that everyone is clearly reflected there and don't put off the case for too long. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance is under consideration. [[on the payment of insurance premiums by mining enterprises]] Reported by Ukrainian National Deputy Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u90	Dear TV setters, distinguished radio audiences, in the face of a steady rise in oil and gas import prices, we are constantly returning to the question of the owner of energy and, above all, the coal sector. But today, the coal industry is profitable, today the wages are underpaid, and the wages are very low. And so in the coal sector, more than 50 percent of the coal miners who work here in the mines are people of retirement age who work for low wages as a pension supplement. And at this time, there is a college of the Ministry of Coal Industry, which also considers a bill to increase the prestige of mining. My bill provides for amendments to the National Pension Insurance Act to article 20 on the suspension of payments for eight days from 20 to 28. What is the basis for this? The problem is, since the coal sector is cost-effective, 50 percent of the budget funding goes to, for example, 4.2 billion this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. budget funding to support the coal sector. But 50 percent of this amount comes from an unprotected article and a special fund. So, first of all, the budget payments go on a protected basis, and when the budget is being filled and payments are made on a protected basis, the special fund on unprotected articles begins to pay off. And so the cost is subtracted from the budget under an unprotected article after 25. However, according to the Act on general compulsory pension insurance, these contributions are to be paid up to 20 times the current month. As a result, the coal industry is suffering considerable damage, and mines have paid 43 million in just six months this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. fines. By the end of the year, it could be about 90 million. And that's a large part of the money that didn't go to pay the wages, and that doesn't affect the prestige of mining. My bill supports and approves the Ministry of Labour, the Pension Fund and the Pension Committee. So, dear colleagues, please support this bill, this will help a little bit to decompose the coal sector in some of the problems, and it will give the miners an opportunity to raise their wages a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u91	Any questions to Mikhail Yakovitch? Please sign up. Grigorovich. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u92	Lila Grigorovich "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! Surely, by sharing and understanding your idea of at least a partial improvement in the situation of our miners, I would like to ask questions of this order. Please say, this special tax regime, when you can pay the pension bill by the 28th, and by the time they arrive, it'll actually be the end of the month. Will it affect the deterioration rather than improve the pension provision of miners because, in fact, the implementation of products in each field usually takes place after 25 each month? Because we're going to improve, really, whether there are guarantees and what guarantees that this will not lead to delays, not optimize these pension payments and deductions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Leela, for a good question. I want to say that we've been working on this issue in detail with the Ministry of Labour, and with the committee of profile, and the Pension Fund, and we've come to the conclusion that this money is being translated from one pocket into another pocket. But they don't go through the pockets or the wages of miners. And it also creates some problems for the pension fund itself. Because the pension fund does not come out of court for such matters, and there is also a delay in the payment of contributions. And it's just a distraction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u94	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. The Flagship of the Party of Regions. Dear Michael Jacobovich! Of course, we can only thank you for the legislative initiative because we have a certain nonconfrontation in existing legislation. There is nothing terrible about life that develops according to our laws we wrote then by coming out of the following things. But I have a question for you. First, how and how is the mechanism for monitoring the implementation of these changes to the bill in yours, or in transitional positions, or maybe then some procedure will be developed, that is, the control mechanism. So that we don't get paid at all. And the second question. What's the position, about this Pension Fund, whether you have a conclusion and what their point of view is. And the third. In view of the fact that there are such observations, you, as the author, share the view of the committee that the bill should be accepted as a basis, not taking it as a whole, although it is short and small, not accepted as a whole, but merely as a basis. Three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u96	Mr. Jaroslave, when this bill was written, I say again, we discussed very carefully, and we came to the conclusion not to touch the final positions, not to touch the controls. And these mechanisms are written out and everything's pretty clear. It only changes the payment date from the 20th to the 28th, just for a week and absolutely nothing else. We simplify the situation here and help the same coal sector. And with the Pension Fund, the settled issue and the profile committee discussed it, and a representative of the Pension Fund supported the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u97	Radziewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u98	Thank you, Alexy Radziewski, Party of Regions, Lvivščina. Dear Mikhaylo Yakovic, understands that the issue you have raised is of an extremely important nature in order to organize the situation in the coal sector. The five days you remind yourself of can only be imagined. How many cases have to be tried, the burden of the court, and so forth? I will personally support your proposal, I will vote in favour. But the question is. You would not be able to give statistics as to how many court cases are violated in connection with the imperfections of this standard every month, on a scale of the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u99	It's not dozens, it's hundreds of trials. And Mr. Radziewski, the miners thank you. They are very grateful for your support and for your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u100	Have a seat, please. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u101	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The legislative initiative that was now presented by the national deputy Volinz was very carefully considered at the committee meeting. Indeed, the question today is extremely relevant, and it comes from life; it comes from a practical plane. I would like to say once again to those colleagues who were asking questions and who wanted to clarify the situation that, indeed, there was a situation that insurance contributions under the law should pay the enterprises of different industries up to 20, and because of the specifics of coal and coal production, and the lines of maintenance usually start to come after 25. So it's about a time period that needs to be settled. This bill will be supported by the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, the Ministry of Coal, but most importantly, this idea is supported by the Pension Fund, because it's a very technological situation. I'd like to point out once again that there's no cheating, there's no restructuring, we're moving the deadline a little bit. Thus, the committee at its meeting supported this legislative initiative. I'll say more by responding in a way to one of the questions that the committee today, given the relevance of the problem, is proposing to support this bill not only in the first reading but in general, because it is small in content, it is completely understandable and is needed today for coal workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u102	Is there a question for Peter Stepanovich? None. Please sit down. Does anyone want to share in the discussion? She does. Sign up for the faction. Red-headed, fractional, sorry, just write it down, not from the faction. Got it. So please have 10 minutes to discuss. Sorry, we don't have 15 minutes. Red. From socialists. Yes, Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Red Eye, faction of the Socialist Party. We, the faction, generally support this bill. I just want to pay attention to one of these questions. It's for all of us legislators. Perhaps such a problem is not limited to the coal industry. And so for the future, I just wanted us to work together, in general, this problem that exists. These are payments that cause some disruption in the economic activity of our industries. Soccer faction for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u104	Light from, uh, Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic, please. You can go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful that you have joined us in discussing this matter. And of course, the committee took a pretty close look at this whole problem, studied it, and then made a decision. There are absolutely no such perfect solutions, because my colleague Redfoot has touched on what there is to fund other directions, including disability programs, and so forth. But there's a special feature. We're entering the winter. We can see now that the question of the heating season has been extended. At least now we have to make every effort to stabilize the coal industry, to give heat and coal to the thermal power plant, and also to coxochemicals, metallurgy, and much more, including wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u106	Matvienko. Arjevetine, please, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u107	Stanislav Arjevetina, “Our Ukraine”. In the banking committee, unfortunately, this bill was not considered, it was not passed to us. The position of our faction is as follows. In large numbers, we share some of the problems that exist in this area. But in our view, this proposal does not significantly improve this situation, and we would advise the authors, if they are in pain for problems in this field, to take a possible experience that is supporting a field such as agriculture. Next. The author of the bill did not provide sufficient grounds, and above all, did not show how to introduce this new norm. In our view, the few days that are proposed to change the order of credits are setting precedents in other fields. This precedent will have negative consequences because we first, - we are violating the Ukrainian Act on the Equivalence of Persons Paying Insurance Contributions, which is proclaimed in Part 7 of the Ukrainian Law on National Insurance. So we're in favour of this standard being implemented either by everyone or by no one. Because a few days does not solve the problem, only creates additional precedents for other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u108	Baldirev from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u109	Baldyrev, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Our faction will certainly support this bill because it is designed to solve the problem. It may not be the ideal way, but it may be to solve the problem that is so far sustainable, which is important for the sector that is the basis of Ukraine's economy. Energy, you know what that means. That is why I, especially since the authors are representatives of different factions - both BUT and left factions - I hope that it will pass easily and that the representatives of our Ukraine will also vote in favour to look pretty good in front of the miners who are not yet your electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u110	Yvchenko. Yvchenko does not insist. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, in this sessional room, we have repeatedly tried to improve the basic law on “On mandatory government pension insurance, ” especially with regard to the payment of insurance contributions. I would like to say that Mikhail Yakovic has raised the current problem, but we should be prepared to see that this problem is not the first problem, and this is not the last problem, because we have before us a consideration of some of the other changes that relate to the very size of the insurance premiums, because those fines that are currently issued by the support of business entities are very often designed, and very often we simply reflect the willingness to insurance. And you know, the problem that we have today at the Pension Fund, it's born with what? That for the 27 million working people, only 14 million pay their pension contributions. Of these, only 11 million are total. And what do we have in the Pension Fund? We have over a thousand insured individuals, 906 pensioners. Dear colleagues, we have to think and be responsible for the future fate of our people, because you can play the populists for a long time, you can deliver all kinds of nice words here, but sooner or later, one way or another, we'll meet up with the fact that in the budget, the pension fund's grant will no longer be available. In general, our faction will certainly support this bill largely. Because we can see both from the speech of the head of the profile committee and the author. These include control mechanisms, control mechanisms, amendments to this bill, and the same as in article 20 of the basic Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. And with regard to the observation regarding the equality of entities that are in fear, that is, the equal rights of persons to pay their premiums. I don't think this equality here is in any way impaired. This is just a specific area that's happening. I don't think we're going to deny it in this room. If the national deputies of Ukraine propose such a scheme of changes in order, or to make payments in relation to other entities that pay insurance contributions, in particular. In agriculture or something. So I call on all the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u113	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Timoshenko Street. Respectable colleagues are national MPs, respected citizens, Ukraine is, is, will be and will be a coal state, a country that is the world's most high-quality coal reserves. I'd like the chairman to set up an order in the hall. Today, Ukraine has reduced coal production for both metallurgy and industry, and for household consumption, but in this room most people remember. When Ukraine produced 222 million tons of coal per year. And then the energy security problem wasn't that sharp. I think that, as part of a future national development strategy, we need to restore the leading role and place in this most important sector. But this sector itself is in danger. The production of every million tons of coal is a human sacrifice. And without compulsory social insurance for miners, miners as the most risky profession associated with such efforts and mortality, with such a disability, we cannot fail. That is why I urge everyone, by rejecting political orientations, to approach our civic patriotic duty and to support the bill, even by agreeing that this bill is not ideal, but this is a good and important step forward in setting up our miners' protection system and in stimulating work, hard work, black work in this sector of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. National Deputy Suškević, Timoshenko's Cell Block. Dear colleagues, I am one of the co-authors in my time of the National Pension Insurance Act, and I am always extremely cautious about what is involved in interfering with the body of this law, because it is possible to distort everything that affects our efforts, our efforts, the efforts of the government, the President of Ukraine to implement pension reform. But I would like to pay attention to all, all those who have read this law today and who are proposing to be determined by voting under this law. A unique situation: the Ministry of Education and Social Policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports this law. Supports a professional committee on pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. And most importantly, once again, I repeat what the committee head said, the pension fund absolutely supports this law. In this situation, we need to understand, language goes into the basic improvement of pension insurance and the payment of insurance contributions under this bill. I would ask, Alexander Alexandrovich, to listen to the committee head's proposal, to vote both as a basis and as a whole. Because it's a timely solution to this problem for coal companies. You know what a critical situation we have in this company right now. And I would like to support, in general, both as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u116	Savocin Hennaday Anatoliyovich, please. So the pause is given to focus and not to say anything else. Please, Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u117	National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Ladies and gentlemen, I think this law is timely, because the people who fall under this law really deserve the honors of both the states and the Supreme Council. Then, when I read this law, I propose to adopt this law as a basis. Because one way or another, there are problems that need to be solved in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u118	Thank you. What do the Ministry officials think about this? No, you weren't here. So you have a previous record, look. Hot Helen Vasilovna, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, what do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u119	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The question is not simple. But in the view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Pension Fund we have to write it down in a second way so that coal enterprises don't pay fines for what they get from the budget after 25. And the payment must be up to 25. So this is a matter that needs to be resolved. We will resolve it until the second reading. Along with the committees, let's write that this is a measure of temporary action for the period that the sector travels from the State budget. And let's do it this way that it's not going to be a reason to give benefits to other industries. I thank you for your attention and ask you to take part in the preparation of this bill for the second reading so that we can get rid of all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u120	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Finance won't deny it? No, it doesn't. From the faction of “Our Ukraine, ” Arjewitin said that they also support this project in the first reading, so no one should have doubts here. I am voting for the adoption of this law in the first reading. [[11:58:49]] For 408 Decision taken. I say again, in the discussion and ministers on this subject, the ministries say that we need to work out some nuances, so I'm not going to go to second reading, second reading, and then I'm not going to go to second reading. There's a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u121	Please take your seats. We'll continue our sessions. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act is under consideration. Registration number 2059. [[about the size allowance for each child raised]] Please sign up for the performances, first of all from the factions. It's legally recorded. And please, now, from the national MPs who want to participate in the discussion of this bill. It's not "Rose" yet. Now I'm going to take a look at how much time we're going to take. Let's take half an hour, if there's no objection, let's have a discussion. Please, Grubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich, please. And from the Cybenko Committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, we know that one of the important socio-economic problems that is today in Ukraine is the demographic situation. And today, in reality, the population of Ukraine is no longer 50 million, as it was more than 10 years ago, but actually less than 45 million. A man. Again, according to statistics, if the same trends are followed by birth and mortality, by about 2025 the population of Ukraine is not more than 30 million. People, people, That is, it's a nonsense and there's going to be an area called Ukraine, where there's not just going to be a population. And that's exactly how we deal with the situation, and we understand very well that the trend towards population decline is primarily dictated by socio-economic factors. We are well aware that parenting requires a mother’s full self - interest, and we generally know this, too, limits the possibility of career growth. And it's often more dense, even raising a child, and especially when a child is sick, it doesn't allow a mother in general to work. And that, of course, leads to women's corresponding wages being low, and in the case of their retirement, the corresponding pension, which is calculated according to the standards of wage, is also small. This is, of course, a great injustice from our point of view. And above all, injustice to women who raise children. After all, we also realize that this work is very difficult and difficult, and it is socially necessary. This is compounded by the increasing annual infant mortality in Ukraine, which is now high enough. And this child’s mortality, including illness, comes out, and if the child is ill again, the mother needs to sit with the child at home. In view of this, it is suggested that pensions be granted to women under 18 years of age. In the case of a woman’s retirement, if she has one or more children who she has raised who have reached the age of 18 years, an 18 - percent pension allowance is proposed for each child. In our view, this law is socially important, it doesn't need huge budget spending, if you say in comparison to numbers, the increase will be as follows: only one of the 400 dollars that fall into the state budget will have to be used to implement this law. So 400 dollars in the budget has gone into the budget, one bracelet I think a child can be given to raise a child it's normal. This adoption of this law will also provide the opportunity to obtain social protection for those women who have actually spent their lives and their time raising an adult generation. We should understand perfectly that in voting for this bill, we are voting for the social protection of mothers. Because we're lucky, we're national deputies, we get a big salary like this, but there are hundreds of thousands and millions of families where parents have low wages because we know the minimum wage and minimum pension in Ukraine. So I just thought that it was really our duty as citizens of Ukraine to create opportunities for Ukrainian citizens, equal opportunities to raise children. As a result, we propose that you vote in favour of this bill, to vote in favour of the future of our nation. Because without supporting this law, we vote that in 20-25 years, there will be no more Russians, no more Ukrainians, no more population, no more clean territory. Thank you for your attention. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u123	Any questions? Please sign up. I'd like women to sign up. Bogdan, please don't run the sessions, I understand you came for the first time in six months, so you don't know the Rules. There's a leader to tell you what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to take statistics on how many times I've been and you'll be interested to announce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u125	I know how statistics are done. I see a good hall and your presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u126	So look down and you can have your glasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u127	Please, 5 minutes Etukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u128	My friend, I have two questions, based on what's in your report. First question. What do you think is why, in the course of economic reforms, in your view, the population of Ukraine has declined, as you said, from 52 million people in the United States? Up to 47 million, why this time of peace? That's the first question. And the second. As you think, enough of the measures you're proposing to improve the demographic situation that is truly catastrophic. Is it possible to consider this in a complex?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u129	Thank you for asking, it's very appropriate. Of course, I'm sure that in those 15 years of independence of Ukraine, we had a lot of governments, and I think, to a greater extent, those who worked in different governments, they probably had more information and had more influence, whether they depended on them or improve the situation in our citizens' lives or not. The main factors that have reduced the population of Ukraine, I think, are the socio-economic factors, namely, the decline in the income of Ukrainian citizens. Because we understand very well that the meager salary that was 30-40 dollars before 2003-2004, yes, we got in the village, we know, right? Is that how he can raise a child for 30 bucks? Someone can do it, show me. No one can. Or maybe 50 dollars minimum, for 17, sorry, there was, remember, a gross minimum pension. So for 17 bracelets, you can keep the child and you can keep yourself -- unreal, there was no money. There were huge problems with the disease. Today, in most parts of Ukraine, there are huge, let's say, layers of the population that suffer from socio-hazardous diseases: it's AIDS, it's tuberculosis, and many others. So these are the social factors. But we know very well what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u130	Please, Rajiewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u131	Your Honor, I've been very familiar with the content of your proposals, I've read carefully the thoughts that you've put forth in the form of a bill, and I've come to the conclusion that this bill is quite populist today. It will in no way contribute to the positive outcome of the problems that you are trying to solve. Moreover, your proposals do not match the vast number of legal acts in force, the laws of Ukraine specifically aimed at supporting motherhood, the social protection of the child, and so on and so forth. So tell me, please, how much will your proposals for the state budget be? If you have calculated the amount, please name it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u132	Thank you for asking. Maybe I'd say so. First of all, not my proposals, not the state budget. I don't think it's people, citizens exist for the budget, and the budget exists for citizens. Therefore, the budget is required to spend the maximum social cost on people. Calculations. Every 400th bracelet, 399 went into the budget, and give four hundred to the kids. One in four hundred. If you're given the numbers and it's hard to count, we know which budget today is more than 100 billion, right? That's right. Well, that's the government budget. What's wrong? I've seen that I've given the government more than 100 billion dollars. budget. And the cost of this law is less than 350 million, I mean every year. Count it. Can I have one bracelet of 400? Let's give it back from the budget. No problem. So that's a small amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u133	Well, this year it's going to be one of 400, the next year it's going to be one of 500, and so on, depending on what budget. So it's better to call it a real number, not one of 400. Bo budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u134	Adam Ivanovich, I agree. But we're going to assume that the budget is only going to go up, not down. That's what the growth government says. I support the idea of budget growth every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u135	Then we'll see where it grew. Dry Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u136	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Bogdan Volodymyrovich must surely welcome any legislative initiative that is aimed at a holy cause to ensure our future. Because we're not all here forever, even the ones on this stand. But I will not go into the depth of the budget process. Because it doesn't make sense then. You've been asked a simple question, you've had to answer with a simple answer where to subtract, someone's got to be taken away and allocated for someone else's benefit. Please tell me, why 15 percent? How much do you want to make? At the minimum of living, or at the average, why 15, not 18 and not 20? The other one. How do the amendments to article 77 of this Law correspond to the requirements of the basic law on compulsory government pension insurance? The second question. And the third. What do you think as a legislator with such great experience and a person who is certainly enlightened, perhaps it is really better not to do such things, patch up holes, but to tackle the global problem of increasing child care payments by the age of three?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Why 15? Well, there's a figure to be given. For example, in the same law, we read: “Citizens who had been unjustifiably subjected to political repression and were later rehabilitated, a pension allowance of 50 per cent and members of their families of 25”. Why were there 50 and 25? Well, come on, you can do more than 15. But the pressure on the budget will be heavy. How is the general law on pension insurance communicated? It's very normal, it doesn't contradict any position at all. The global problem of caring for children under three years of age. I totally agree with you. This is a serious problem. And maybe I'd come from supporting your initiative, to do, let's say, a large social package of laws or changes to laws that basically, let's say, enabled mothers not only to three, but also to 18 years to support children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Retirement, Veterans, and Disabled Persons supports mothers who have given birth and have been raised to adulthood in every way. I would like to remind, including that part of our colleagues who came to the Supreme Council recently that it was the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities of their time and I, as his head, that initiated the adoption of the Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. And this law has provided for some social protection, some social support for mothers who give birth to children in those categories that fall within the scope of this law. In particular, it's about an increase of 20 to 25 percent of the basic pension minimum of living, a supplement to the basic pension. Another legislative act has slightly reduced the retirement age for mothers who have given birth to five or more children. I mean, the point is that we're working on this problem. And I think that's the right trend. With regard to the bill that we are considering today. Well, the first thing I have to do is point out, if I don't, today is a figure from the author of the legislative initiative that only 1 out of every four hundred bracelets will go into the execution of this bill. But I have other information. When we considered this bill at the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, representatives of the Ukrainian Pension Fund claimed that the value of this law was 6 billion dollars a year. So I'd like us to focus on that. But most of all, it's not even that. Dear colleagues, as far as I'm concerned with this initiative, I'm a human being as a parliamentarian, as an MP, as a communist, I support the idea myself, but I have to say this. The author proposed to amend the Pension Insurance Act. To a law that is not fully operational today, de facto, which ceased to work since 1 January 2004, when the Act “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance” came into effect. And the Pension Insurance Act, to which the changes are proposed, only works in a part that is not contrary to the Law, the rules of the Law on the State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance Act. That's why, based on these very motives, on the grounds that we're trying to make changes to a law that doesn't actually work, the committee doesn't support this decision, so it's decided to redraft this document. But as a representative of the faction, I also have to say today that the faction, the faction of the Ukrainian Company in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has decided to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Any questions? None. Yes. Please sign in. Ah, a lot of questions. More than one, don't ask, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, because you put 3-4s. Three minutes. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u141	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I want to ask you the next question. Please tell me, Peter Stepanovich, do you think it's immoral that individual Ukrainian national MPs issue laws on top of the mountain, as if of social significance, knowing in advance that they will never be financially secured. I mean, just like the author and we have about a dozen of these laws on the committee. Sadly, however, sources of funding are not indicated. And so would it not be right if the author of the bill also pointed out where to get these sources of funding? We're for this, but when we were in power, we had to do it all quickly, show our faces how concerned they were about a multi-child mother. And now that the principle is getting worse and worse, I think it's an immoral act by the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u142	Thank you for asking, Catherine Seed. Once again, I would like to point out that, indeed, among the comments made by the scientific and expert authorities, there is a reference to the violation of article 27 of the Ukrainian budget code, which is the first. Secondly, I called the specific figures that were reported by the representatives of the pension fund at the meeting of the profile committee. I remind you of this figure, the order of 6 billion dollars per year is the price of the question. And I would like to agree with you, even more, that some of our colleagues, giving a similar kind of legislative initiative, have, at least, an honest answer to the question: What is it that is also a part of the poverty of this population? And I completely agree with the tone of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u143	Please, Hubby Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u144	Dear colleague, if you are giving numbers, take at least time to count them. You said this Law could cost 6 billion dollars. 15% of the minimum pension is 50, 6 billion divided by 50, 120 million children. How can we have 120 million children? So you clearly told the lie. If you answer another question, How many children? Well, count it, 50 bucks, even for 10 million kids, that's not more than 500 million dollars. Well, why are you telling the truth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u145	Thank you, my dear fellow, for not telling a lie. If you, as the author of the bill, would come to a meeting with a committee of profile, you would personally hear the figure that came from the rule of the Pension Fund. But since you sent your assistant, who obviously didn't pass on this information to you, well, I'm sorry, it's not my problem anymore. And once again, I'm stressing that the figure that I've given you, I've referred to the source that this is the government of the U.K. Pension Fund. I'm sorry, I didn't say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u146	Well, for great merit and activity in the MP's life, Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm very short. Peter Stepanovich, the point is, I might not have asked this question, but the thing is, you know very well, your committee and our committee, we are particularly in the lead before the elections, we are overwhelmed by bills that don't provide for financial security. There's nothing but politics here. I don't want to evaluate a bill by an honourable colleague, but I do want to ask you, and please develop this opinion for our radio audiences: is there an article 77 of the non-active pension law, with an existing law on mandatory government social insurance? Pensions are determined depending on wages and internships. Maybe he meant some coefficient of correction? Then you would have helped him write that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u148	Thank you. I, the question, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, would like to point out once again that, indeed, this was one of the main arguments for rejecting the committee's draft law, something that's being proposed to amend the law that doesn't work in its entirety today. Moreover, this rule does not comply with the general government pension policy. But I would like to emphasize once again: believe that on the committee, I have, as a committee head, no less pain in the soul for solving this problem, but we tried to solve it through the law of retirement for special merit before Ukraine, where, in fact, a slightly higher increase in basic pensions is there 20-25 percent. Moreover, a decision has been made to reduce by five years the retirement rate for mothers who have given birth to five or more children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u149	Thank you, have a seat, Peter Stepanovich. Yes, dear colleagues, we have, well, let's take 15 minutes to discuss. The Red Cross, please, the faction of the Socialists. It will be followed by Volkov – “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u150	Red Eye, faction of the Socialist Party. After hearing my report on the outcome of the review of the bill at the Committee on Veterans, Pensioners and Disabled Persons, the Socialist Party faction decided not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u151	In general, it's short and simple. Please, from “Our Ukraine, ” Grigorovitch. Prepare Bondar, Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u152	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today, a short working day will enter the history of our parliamentary activity as a day when we will adopt a number of legislative acts that will serve our future generations. We have just done very wisely because we adopted the Law on the Regulation of Advertising of Alcohol and Tobacco Products in the first reading. I think we're going to do the same thing about this bill. You know, sometimes I don't understand how we actually have some kind of general strategic line in this room. When, literally a few days ago, a parliamentary week ago, amendments by the President of Ukraine offered to provide orphans who had completed higher education in one year rather than forty years, morals were mentioned in the hall, fear God, and so forth. Today I hear from a woman's national deputy that it's not necessarily a bill that increases by just a small number by 50 dollars to women who have given birth and raised a child up to 18 years of age. You know, let's not go into morals, future generations, and so forth, just to fling and juggle for our political ends. The national deputy of Ukraine, Hubsky, passed a perfectly logical bill on the sixteenth year of our independence. And if some people haven't done anything in the last year, and it's done a lot, because 8 and a half thousand dollars at the birth of a baby gave birth to 7 percent more babies in the last year. But that is not all. We need to take care of housing for these families, and this is a mortgage, we need to take care of pensions, and this is another incentive for demographic progress, not a demographic crisis in Ukraine. So 50 times I don't know how many mothers there have counted as much as 120,000, and so on, that's definitely not the 6 billion that scare us today. And for that reason, I'm going to be extremely concise. The bill fully fits into the concept of a strategy for overcoming the demographic crisis in Ukraine and there is no greater task today, because in a country where half the population has died, half the sick, there will be no successful business, no economy, no priorities for others, no economic or social. Therefore, the faction of “Our Ukraine” strongly recommends that this session hall support the bill in its first reading. And I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u153	Yes, please, from the “Julia Timoshenko Block” by Elena Bodnar. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Ukrainian National Deputy, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to tell you, Your Honor, all of us from childhood, we all remember very well how difficult it was for our parents to raise us. It's hard, because you have to give it all to this child to grow up to be a real person, so that then the same child feeds their mother, when mom's broke and the baby's making the same pension, by the same 15%. It's a very small thank you to our mothers. I think that parents, not only mothers, but also men who have taken on such a heavy burden to raise their child and without the help of their mother, deserve great respect. So our faction has made a unanimous decision to support this bill. In the second reading, of course, some amendments can be made, but the bill is conceptually worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u155	Mikola Sadowa, then from the Suhia region faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, to raise a person, a Ukrainian citizen is a constitutional duty for both parents, educators and society as a whole. You can only raise a person and a child when he is fed, when he is warm, both in public institutions and in physical warmth. When there is concern for the whole society. Does it provide proper nutrition for the newborn today? No, of course not. Is there a proper diet in kindergartens? No, of course not. I can give an example in the city of Kirovograd, today in the city of Kirovograd, the parents brought larger bottles into the kindergartens, poured hot water there, and when the child goes to bed, they lay down with the child and these hot bottles because there is no heat. And this concern in the city of Kirovograd about these children. And school feeding, the Ministry of Education and, in particular, the minister of Nikolainko, have taken steps to ensure the minimum feeding of students in the 1-4 classes, but the minimum, not necessary. And the rest of the students, of course, remain observant. Therefore, a number of measures must be taken to protect, first of all, children who are most likely to be followed by a mother. It is logical to support and support those who have raised and raised Ukrainians. But today we need to think about today, about today’s troubles, and about that huge scale of TB among children. It's that huge drug abuse that's among the kids, and the drinking that's already been talked about today. Therefore, a systematic analysis of the problem is needed. And on pension insurance, and on how the Education Act is implemented, on preschool education, on general secondary education. So socialists, the faction of socialists, in principle, support the very idea of protecting children, must protect the mother, but laws that can act rather than be populist must be put forth and proposed. Therefore, a systematic analysis and a system law to protect both children and mothers is needed, not populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u157	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Behind him is Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with my colleague Sadov of the faction of Soccer. Of course, in my speech when I asked the question to my colleague Hubski, I said that, of course, the very idea of supporting my mother and child should be provided with all kinds of legislative means. But I asked: Why 15 percent? I thought that we would now hear here a reference to the Constitution of the Basic Law of Ukraine to Article 46, where it is clearly and clearly stated that citizens who have the right to social protection are guaranteed this right by compulsory public social insurance, not by taking 15 percent off the ceiling. And one more thing. Pensions, other types of social services and assistance, in this case we're talking about pension assistance, which is the main thing to ensure a standard of living at least below the minimum of living. Colleagues! Let's take this problem seriously. At least one. Before providing the so - called specific, remember, during the time of the Soviet Union, child - care costs were fixed, let’s anticipate the payment of the child - care decrees at the level of a minimum of living for the disabled, so that the ridiculous money is not available. Then the bill could be supported by both hands. And the last. You know, I'm still talking to our colleague of the Ukrainian National MP, he's an experienced MP, he understands very well, if there's a contradiction in the bill to the two bills, it's quite clear that he's not going to work on this bill at all. And whoever's in power, which president, which government, will be vetoed because this bill pleases, earlier today, reporting is not effective. I understand that from a political or political point of view, someone might like to vote in favour of this law. But it's not going to work, it's not going to bring what we want -- the material provision of mothers who grow and raise children into such a difficult, time-consuming transition period to market principles. Dear colleagues, the main task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to help people adapt, reduce, minimize the social consequences of this market transformation rather than feed them with populist fairy tales. Our faction for this bill will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u159	Andrew School, Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u160	Thank you. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. You see, I'm always completely sober in the sense that there's going to be a contradiction between power and opposition about how to form a budget, how to form a revenue and expenditure portion. This is a question that is clear and that may be discussed from another point of view. But when it comes to supporting a child in Ukraine, let's see what we have. We now have very bad birth rates, we have negative three in the eastern part of Ukraine, we have a little positive Kiev and about 0.05 percent Western Ukraine. We're losing population in practice. And that's why talking about politics or factionism here is just not worth it. Here you have to look for that absolute over-time, over-party and over-fractional consensus, believe me. I understand that someone here is governed by party reasons, someone thinks it's learned or not, but you forget what factions you're part of. Because in Ukraine there may soon be a time when no one will go to the polls, believe me. When we talk about 15 percent, whether it's a reasonable number or not, let's vote on the first reading of the bill and work on it. Because under the circumstances, the situation is completely unclear as to what reasons govern the MP’s desire to support him or her. And when you were in opposition, you gave similar laws with the same argument, but when we talk about this law, it's similar to others, but it's different because it touches a serious problem in Ukraine. Whatever it is, it would have been invented artificially, which is very often found in the legislative activities of individual national deputies. This is indeed a problem under the circumstances. And I can't understand when we're talking about 50 dollars of support, it's not the kind of money that needs to be discussed. When we look at the very, very often irresponsible spending of funds by the state budget, the same thing, it doesn't carry and it doesn't carry the balance of the budget, you understand that very well. And of course, protecting the government in such a way that let's not adopt social laws, because they're not the time today, because our government in power is, well, at least, dishonest. And I was pleased and interested to hear representatives of Communists say: “You don’t have to help your children. Because there is no money for this.” Well, it's funny, it's just funny. Because, in principle, you don't even have responsibility for an active government, because there are no ministers there. We should not take on the burden of responsibility, for it is easier to walk in life. And believe me, if you don't vote for this bill, you're gonna lose your electronic support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u161	Yes. Vladimir Landik, I can't see. All of it. Yeah. From the government, who? Now, now. Who Are Ready From the Government? Hot? Please, Olena Vasilovna. Olena Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u162	Honorable national deputies, the government, and the Supreme Council will continue to support families with children. And today, Catherine Semenovna advocated that her committee, which she headed, would be responsible for the provision of funds for children under the age of 17, and for their mothers. The author of the bill suggests that we rescind the pension policy and say that if you have a child, a husband or a woman, does not matter, and you pay the premium, your pension will be greater than that contributor’s pension, which, for example, does not change the child’s birth condition, or the child dies in two days to 18 years. Is that a fair approach? This is at the expense of the contributors. Not at the expense of the system or the tax. Now for the second question. Why should a mother spend money on a child when she is an adult? That means a woman who's already retired. Once upon a time, 10 years ago, we had a driver's protest. And they demanded a salary, and to change the crevices, they were promised to retire early for five years. They're retiring five years early today. The pension is small, and they are forced to work until they are 70 years old. So it seems to us in the government that we have to pay our contributions to the Pension Fund for mothers who care for children. Children should receive 2 or 3 subsistence minimums over time, in order to be able to learn them, fed them. And a mother should have a vacation that is sufficient to care for her children and to pay for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u163	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna. Please do not have any reasons for this rule, please close to the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Well, first of all, with regard to populism in which authorities, I can say that at Kuchma, at Yushchenk, and today at Yanukovich, I have been filing and passing social bills. This is for example. So let's say we have pies in the social sphere. They didn't give it to the villagers. And did you offer that? I proposed this bill. Thanks to the Supreme Council, they supported it. The second bill is for example for you. Social expenditure in medicine and culture in rural areas. Again, he did not make the elections today, nor did he make the elections. This law was passed. I think the Supreme Council also supports my next law to compare pension insurance, which is already in development, teachers, doctors with civil servants. Why a minister pays 90 percent of his salary and a rural doctor and teacher significantly less. Why? Unless the country doctor and the teacher are working less than the deputy minister for the state. No, it's not. He raises children, and we need to worry about that. That's clear. The next question is about 6 billion. I didn't say you produced this false information. But the information is not true. Once it was produced by the Pension Fund, I'll explain. He says he spends 6 billion. I'll explain. One child's fee will be 51 bracelets. Divide 6 billion into 51 bracelets. It's going to be 120 million. What do we have 120 million children today? That's an honest lie! I'll explain. Children with more than 6 million to pay for. 6 million times 51 and it's going to be over 300 million. So 300 million is one four hundred of that budget that we're going to vote for. Next. Next question. Oh, look, it's a discussion. There's someone here who's here to take action against the children. The next question is important. Do you say who to take from? That's how we haven't given it to anyone yet. The budget is not accepted. If the budget had been accepted, you could say that they had been taken away. But the budget wasn't accepted, so we didn't give it to anyone. And today we have to figure out who we're giving to. And that is why we do not take anyone away from this article because we did not give anyone. Or have we arranged to give it to someone? No, it's not. The budget is open, transparent and will be discussed in each article. Next question. For what we should pay women, the government asks us which are already retired. That's how I explain it. If a woman raised a child and did not work, she received a small salary. And I can tell you that your pension depends on what your salary is. If you were sitting in a hospital, you didn't get your salary and your pension would be small. And that's why you lost your salary by compensating 50 bucks a month for one child. Thank you for your attention. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you of a simple thing, and each of you knows and, I think, more than that, Bogdan Volodymyrovich, that we can't talk to you about the 2007 budget, because all we're talking about right now is, at best, it might relate to the next 2008 budget. Therefore, we should not be misled because it is legislation. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. You know, that's how I've been listening, doing good brava boys and thinking, even if one calls, let's help women give birth. No, let's give the money. Where is our personal contribution to increasing the population? Yes, I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. [[about the size allowance for each child raised]] Registration number 2059. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:36]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm with you. The factions? Please. Region Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 112, “Our Ukraine” - 66, Socialists - 2, Communists - 14, non-fractional - 1. I owe you 13 minutes, so I'm going on for 13 minutes. Please sign up for “Victane”. Yes, please, we are now going to the “Variance”, one minute. One, excuse me, an hour. Please, Tedeev. You don't? Is it? Who? Verni Dubov. John Verni Dubov. Please. There, there, there, I see, there. Verni Dubov, instead of Tedeyev, Galunenko prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u166	Honourable National Deputies, respected compatriots, have launched a violent campaign aimed at discrediting the government of Viktor Yanukovic. We consider it necessary to tell our people this: Today, despite a critically small term in power, there is a positive outcome. It's about energy prices and gas prices. I want to remind everyone how the orange team used to explain to people the high price of gasoline and gas. No economically sound calculations, no analyses. There were two main arguments: first, we chose the European path, we are Europeans. So we have to pay for gas and gasoline at European prices. Second, Russia will not forgive us our independent choice, so it will be cruel and cruel to press Ukraine. And we're going to show her that we're really independent and proud. A party of regions, the anti-crisis coalition and the Yanukovich government have only two months since the formation of the government have already offered a real package of economic improvements to the lives of citizens. First, the price of gas for the population has been reduced from 414 to 339 dollars per thousand cubic metres, for thermal power companies from 658 to 498 dollars per thousand cubic metres. Second, the government of Yanukovič actually executes one of the basic positions of President Yushchenka's pre-election programme: “the rich will share with the poor”; and the slogan of another orange political power: “justice is”. The government has developed and proposed a gas tariff differentiation program, depending on the level of consumption, or the heating area. The main idea is that the owners of simple houses and not rich apartments will pay even less for the gas they consume, and the residents of solid multi-story mansions or flats will pay more. Third, the government of Yanukovich guaranteed the stability of the price of gas for natural persons per year. The population will not have to wait for the next April or July to follow the rhetoric of politicians about rising world gas prices. Fourth, the government is developing an energy conservation program. Citizens will be charged with gas counters with the electronic accounting system of prepaid gas. And five, the oil market not only sees price stability, but I see a gradual decrease in the price of gasoline. Officials promise a further gradual decline in prices. The guarantee of the protection of the domestic market will be restored by the State’s attention to the work of domestic oil refineries, which the Council had passed, in fact, ignored. A well - thought - out pragmatic dialogue with large businesses, owned by the world’s most famous ASS networks, supports the native.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u167	Yes, thank you. The headman passes the word Koleshnichenko. Get Mutz ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u168	Vadim Koleschenko, Party of Regions, town of Sevastopol Deep-rooted voters, respected colleagues, and the Chief! I think it's time to answer a few important questions under this dome. First, do we build a democratic state that respects the natural and constitutional rights of all without excluding our citizens, or do we create a colony where the dictatorship of the so-called national conscious minority will rule? Secondly, does the political elite realize that the right of tens of millions of citizens to speak Russian is as essential from the moment they are born as the right to breathe and to defend these values of life at all costs? Thirdly, do high-ranking and respected commissioners of the European Parliament, who are monitoring Ukraine, guess that the Network of Television and Radio today, instead of a technical body, has turned into a political monster of the Inquisition, which is burning iron-licensing the Russian language in Ukraine and decides on its purely commercial interests. I will give an example of the town of Sevastopol having 90 per cent of the Russian-speaking population and only 6 per cent of the Ukrainian-speaking population. At the same time, 18 hours of radio broadcasting are conducted in Ukrainian, and only two hours are given to the regional news broadcast in the mother tongue. And it's required that you have 50 by 50 here as well. Our Rada today deprives Sevastopol's live radio of the right to broadcast to the Sewastopols. These are more than 150,000 subscribers who provide their subscription fee to the network. We ask the question: Who wants conflict and hostilities in our Ukraine? I understand that if we do not adopt a law that actually works for the sake of the language, for the benefit of the people, we will not be able to ensure the security of the unity of our Ukraine. I realize that in the case of the legislative consolidation of the protection of Ukrainian and Russian languages, several hundred nationalists will be granted unemployment because their political capital is built solely on the blowing up of language. But let these individuals receive any pensions, or in Ukraine, planning peace, harmony, and mutual respect for each and every person. Our Parliament needs to adopt appropriate laws, at last to implement the European Charter of Regional Languages, Minority Languages, so that everyone feels protected in our State, not by exorcism and by the tribe. Only then will we have a prosperous democratic state that protects the interests of every human being, not small Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Mutz. Is it? Please, you've been barricaded there. Get ready for Bondarchuk Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u170	Orestes Mutz, Party of Regions, Ternopilish. Dear colleagues, I want to draw attention to my poor country, where corruption and lawlessness flourish. But it's almost two months away from the president, whether it's a minister of force or a leader of the orange opposition. You accompany them, the same local corrupters and corrupt politicians. For example, in the eyes of the deputy prosecutor of the district of Lachnenko and the prosecutor of Ternopol, Mr. Sharovara, are encouraged by the arbitrary construction of a 16th - century monument. Lands are arbitrarily captured. Construction monopolies are being released from the city's water supply by nearly 5 million dollars, and they are repairing the city's water supply at the expense of the community of Ternopol, increasing the cost of water twice. One of the local oligarchs of skeletons who are shouting everywhere has won their will, won their fortune, privatized their hotel farms: two hotels, saunas, parking lots, and land. In total, he privatized 29,000 square meters for $200,000 at a real cost of 9 million. If in Donetsk 1 square meter of pit repair costs up to 100 dollars, then on. About 500 bucks. 70 percent of the building's broken, or illegal, at all. For example, Agrobud is building a house with no permits, and the prosecutor's office is silent, and the company has closed it down with dollars. There is a very important harvesting season for peasants in Ternopils. The so-called opposition, monopolizing the sugar industry, fooling my countrymen in the barrels, reducing the weight of the beet and reducing its sugaryness from 1% to 3, which is millions of dollars in the shadow pocket, not in the budget area. Other orange deputies of the Ternopil Arch, the directors of the liquor plant, are selling shadow alcohol by declaring themselves opposition. My address is to be considered by the Attorney General of Medvedsk, the Head of the Board, the President, the Prime Minister. I ask you, on behalf of the community of Ternopolska, to free us from the pocket attorneys, the district attorney for Mr. Lošnenko, who, by the way, probably beat the Guinness record, has been working for over 15 years as the district attorney's first deputy, i.e. with all the Presidents of Independence, a little beyond the Union. No need for the community and his companion, the prosecutor of the city of Sharovara. Your Honor, if you don't want to see the community's self-sustainment over unsuspecting law enforcement officers, I ask for immediate intervention. Please. I'd like to turn to the opposition, who just got cut off for the budget. Tell me, please, you'd steal less in Terepolska from sugar factories, and you'd be more helpful to the budget. And did you, Mr. Andrew, turn to the school, forget how on live television our landlady said to you: “Take off your high shirt, for you have disgraced us, Galicians?” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u171	Yes, Garden, please. Gardens. Next Volkov. I can't see. Kowzel. Kowzel conveys the word to Kirilenko John, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u172	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. For the past four years, the territory of the Kirovograd region has been the arena of political and economic battles, and this is exactly what people are suffering from. For almost eight months, the area had no head of government, and in the end, we have a young, energetic, reverend Chernish. From the early days, an oligarchic local clan attacked him and hindered his work. Since 2003, seeds not seen in Ukraine as a source of social tension and disorder have been planted in the city of Kirovograd. The 100th district and the head of the territorial electoral commission, Hilchenko, showed the world’s higher level of forging the results of the vote. The Henprosecutorate and the powerful business and financial clan of the city are doing everything they can to drive the investigation into a dead end and virtually stop the process of bringing the case to trial. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to ask at the next sessional week the question of the establishment of the Temporary Follow-up Commission to delay the investigation into the falsification of the protocols resulting from the elections in Kirovograd as early as 2004. Next trouble, there are two main heat suppliers in Kirovograd: the south-west boiler and the TES. First, in renting a private structure from Kiev, it is called “Kirovogradeplo” and the second is given to Kharkiv high energy systems with a statutory fund of 380 g. A private tenant from Kiev opened a credit line of 5 million It's a warm house for boilers. The cost of this boiler is 12.5 million. in December, now owes 18 million dollars to this private enterprise. There is virtually no heat farm in the city of Kirovograd. This is also true of TES, which is committed to a credit line of 2 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of Under the mortgage, 900,000, 1 million returned. 100 grand. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. So, first of all, I'm talking to the people who did this, and that's what the 100th constituency, Sharov, Volkanov, Hilchenko, Andreev, Tsukanov, Kralewec and others did, and they put people on their knees. That's why I'm addressing the problems raised to the head of the Supreme Council, to the minister of the coal industry in Alexandria, to the Henprosecutor's Office: people are waiting for appropriate action. People are waiting for answers about their protection under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u173	Ivan Kirilenko, please prepare Catherine Lehchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u174	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, for the first time, too many years, there was a remarkable sign for the village of voting. More than 420 national deputies, regardless of party ownership, voted in favour of an extremely complex Law on Agricultural Income Taxation. And this is a powerful testimony that, regardless of party decoration, we realize that agriculture today is the most vulnerable, most sensitive sector that needs our attention and support. But we took the first step. Dear colleagues! The next step in state support is the 2007 state budget. I realize that today it is not easy for our colleagues who have accepted it for work today. Over 3,000 amendments were made to this main financial document the following year. But I am convinced, just as you are, that where the spending part of the budget will relate to the villages of its social development, the formation of transparent and understandable support mechanisms that are particularly cost-effective for peasants' hands will not lift them up, so we know that there are always traps. And there's an opportunity to expand an article a little bit -- that's the first one. The other one. Let's take a very close look at the sources of funding for the APC programs next year. On the one hand, if you look at almost a third of the village's support in the 2007 budget rises, it is a source of concern for the source of funding, namely, article 89 of the programme's funding provides that the source of the 4 flagship programmes in 2007 is almost 2 billion dollars from the privatization of state property. I emphasize, real money, almost 2 billion. for the leading programmes from the privatization of state property. Take a look at the implementation of this year's coming plan, take a look at what is being done monthly, and let's understand that "the spring day is feeding." These four flagship programs, subsidies for plant and animal production, financial support for APC enterprises through the short-term and long-term lending mechanism, partially offset by the value of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production. Dear colleagues, this is the money that is needed in the first weeks of the new year. The villagers will see them, won't they? So I want to focus again on those colleagues of ours who work on the budget committee: these are the amendments. Dear colleagues, look at them carefully, don't wipe them out -- it's very important. And one more thing. Take a close look at the wording of the articles, and they do not conform to the basic law on support for agricultural production. It may happen that the money will be allocated and we will not receive it. It's a legal colossal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u175	Lechenko I don't see, please, it's very good that you're in place of her, but she needs to say it herself, so long as you're not “monkey-like”. Please, let Kiselov pass the word to Radziew, followed by Korz, to prepare Bachtieu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u176	Alexei Radziewsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, I would like to remind you that in this room very often there are calls for tolerance, understanding, mutual respect, in the end, to observe Christian morality. And basically, these calls are correct. But I want to demonstrate how these calls that often come out of our colleagues' mouths from the orange camp are designed for events that take place there, directly among the people, in the territories. And I can tell you that I want to show you how this is happening in the Lviv region. From this highest rostrum of our nation, I inform the public of Ukraine, the deputy corps that the well-known newspaper High Castle recently published an article by its journalist Roman Shepherd entitled “The time has come to move their remains to a place of rest. ” What are you talking about? In the city of Drogobychi, with the silent consent of the orange authorities, aggressive and reactionary forces have offered to lift the memorial complex from the face of the earth, where veterans of the Great Homeland War are always gathered annually to pay tribute to the fallen for the liberation of these lands during the years of war from the brown plague. Now the idea is to take this monument down, dig up the remains, and carry them outside the city. Please tell me where the Christian morality is, where the political conscience is, where education is finally, when in 2006 we are witnessing this kind of action. I want to ask you, is this the position of the Julia Timoshenko faction? Is this the position of the most venerable Julia Volodymyrna? I don't believe it, it's probably the position of the newspaper of its editor-in-chief, so finally, do something about it so that there's no such grumpy examples as to demoralize our society. Here's the address, and here's the newspaper, and don't deny it to me, because it's true! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u177	Please prepare the Bachelor Tetjana Bondar Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable people's deputies are radios and TVs! Over the past few years, we have seen how little progress has been made in strengthening our Ukrainian economy, and quality goods and services have become increasingly accessible. However, the most painful issue was the situation of Ukrainian health. Today I am Chairman of the Health Committee, yesterday I worked as a doctor, the chief physician of one of the largest medical institutions in Ukraine. It is therefore with full responsibility that I can state from this high rostrum that medicine, like no other industry, is given the attention of the State. Despite the fact that our socially oriented Constitution has declared the full care of the citizens of health care, the provision of our hospitals is at the level of the 1970s, there has been no renovations for decades, and the medical profession cannot apply its knowledge in practice, and the wages of their families are below the poverty line. When we come to hospitals for voter votes, our promises are boundless. While many of us have found time and opportunity to provide strong sponsorship, for which I always thank everyone for their help. Nevertheless, there has been no fundamental change in the system. You need laws. The Health Finance and Health Insurance Bill, registration number 2192, has been initiated by 18 people’s deputies of various political parties and factions. The bill regulates the introduction of compulsory health insurance in Ukraine in parallel with the existing level of budgetary funding. It also introduces rules to encourage the development of voluntary health insurance. The proposed form is close to the European budgetary and health system. The most important question for us: where do we get the money? And I want to say that we have reviewed many of the work and work of European countries, the SND countries. As a result, it has been concluded that we do not have the right to contribute to compulsory health insurance from citizens. Therefore, the responsibility for compulsory health insurance must be shared between employers and local government authorities in a 50-50 ratio. In addition, employers will pay medical contributions for workers and their children, with payroll charges as well as social funds that will be included in gross costs and local government fees on income tax from citizens. The Pension Fund will pay for non-retired retirees. Thus, the future system would in no way prejudice citizens'rights to free medical care. Pre-received.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u179	Thank you. Is Vladimir Bondar there? None. Please, the Bespallian has given the word to Arjevetin. Mother Vitaly will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u180	The delegates of the “Banks of Ukraine” assembly entrusted me, the head of the Association Council of Ukrainian Banks, with a statement addressed to the President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The meeting marks the significant gains of the Ukrainian banking system, which enabled it to develop into one of the most powerful sectors of the national economy, to become a competitive State and its trusted partner. Today, assets in the banking system have reached more than 50 percent of GDP, and loans to the economy have made over 20 billion dollars. Population contributions to the banking system amount to $90 billion. At the same time, the banking community draws the attention of authorities to problems that hinder the further growth of the national economy and the banking system. Such problems are: the imperfection of the system of protection of the rights of creditors of Ukraine, the dependence of the National Bank of Ukraine on the interests of the political forces, the activity of the Ukrainian banking system in the legal field, which does not contribute to the creation of competitive conditions, the instability in tax regulation. These problems can only be solved in close cooperation between all branches of government for Ukraine’s exit to a qualitatively new level of global economic development and social well-being. In order to deepen the positive impact of the banking system on Ukraine's economy, it is necessary: First. Support the bill to allocate 20 per cent of the surplus of the National Bank's income over its spending on the creation of a fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. The other one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the nomination of the President of the Association of Mr. Sugonako to include him in the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. Support the proposal to cancel a congregation at the Pension Fund from commercial, arbitral transactions involving the purchase and sale of a non-cash currency. Four. Follow the principles of equal competition between financial institutions when adopting new legislative and regulatory acts and when changing existing ones. Ukraine's future is an effective dialogue of power and business, power and society to create decent living conditions. Let me also publish another statement. This is a statement by “Our Ukraine” on administrative intervention in the formation of the country's crop market. The “Our Ukraine” faction expresses deep concern about the situation in the Ukrainian grain market in connection with recent government decisions. They are convinced that the introduction of the first licence, then the quota of exports of the grains belonging primarily to the feed group, has nothing to do with the concern either for the food security of the state or for the share of the direct producer of the grains of the peasants. In this regard, the “Our Ukraine” faction requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to immediately make its decision on the regulation of grain exports in accordance with Ukraine's current legislation, national interests and international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u181	Hello, Mother. To prepare, Plotnikov handed over the word Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u182	Vitajli Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” faction. Statement by “Our Ukraine” on administrative intervention in the formation of the grain market in Ukraine. The “Our Ukraine” faction expresses deep concern about the situation in the Ukrainian grain market in relation to illegal, anti-market and non-motivated measures for its settlement by the government. They are convinced that the introduction of licensing first, and then the quota of exports of grains belonging primarily to the feed group, has nothing to do with the country’s food security or the share of the farmer’s direct producer. Today, it is evident that artificial export restrictions, such as barley and corn, will inevitably result in a collapse of prices in the internal market. Ukraine is growing far more of these crops than it is eating. We stress that the first to experience the blow of absurd government policies will be farmers — producers of grains who will be forced to produce below their own cost — with millions of losses. However, this chain of problems for the Ukrainian economy, caused by the government's grain self-activity, does not end. As a result of the decline in domestic prices and the decline in grain exports, there is a decline in monetary output as a result of Ukraine’s gross domestic product. The cost of millions of dollars comes from Ukrainian ports, grain complexes, and railways. Banks will face again the problems of not returning loans to peasants. The investment climate will deteriorate primarily in the APC. And small and medium - size enterprises that trade in and transport grains can cease to exist with all negative social consequences. “Our Ukraine” states that the quota for grain exports will inevitably lead to new corruption schemes. First of all, it will not allow officials and those who are close to power to manipulate quota allocations, speculate on the grain market, and benefit from differences in prices in the internal and external markets. In this regard, the “Our Ukraine” faction requires the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately make its decision in the area of the regulation of grain exports responsible for and carry out its activities in this area, based solely on national interests and common sense, and Ukraine's international obligations. Personally, I would like to emphasize that very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u183	Vitaly Ivanovich, it's all good. But if we're hungry, we'll sing another song. The sand of John. Cowchenko get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u184	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today I would like to address one situation that has arisen in the village of Mahal of Cherniewec, which is one of the oldest and largest populaces in the region. The village is very interesting, most of the population is made up of Romanians. It has happened that residents of the village rarely vote the way they want in the district center. The graduates of this industrious village worked at the leading universities of Vienna, Chisinau, Paris, Bucharest, London, and so forth. Before the war in February 1941, dozens of Mahalcans were shot near the nearby village of Lunk. And before the war on June 13, 1941, 579 of them were deported. And although the village is near the town of Chernivci district center, the village has not yet been gassed. But today I'm going to talk about something else, and I'd like to pay attention to the leadership of the Lviv Railway, and we need to approach here not from a political point of view, not from an ethnic point of view, but a purely human point of view. And we need to open up a railway crossing at the Mahala station, which was closed in 2004 after the first route of the city of Chernivci. The decision to close the move was made without the opinion of the village community and was indignant about it, because the existing road that led to the land for the production of the 144 inhabitants of the village, as well as hayhairs, pastures, rural garbage dumps for the general use of the inhabitants of the village, was convenient for the villagers and shorter than four kilometers. In view of the harvest season, usually by tractors and submarines, as well as the funeral of the inhabitants of the village of Prut, the funeral procession must be on its way to the church in the center of the village of Mahala and back to the cemetery of the village of Prut. This is a very long distance, causing obstacles to motor traffic and endangering the lives and health of residents. Accidents with severe consequences that took place during the 2004 k006 years have created tension in the village, and the community insists on resolving the question of the restoration of the work of moving to the Mahala village station. This does not need additional funds, but it just needs understanding. A session of the village council, the deputies of the Mahala village council, which includes a few words, addressed the appropriate letters to the Ministry of Transport of the relevant authorities to resolve the matter. Sadly, though, this has not yet been resolved. That's why I'm going to the Crossroads to solve this issue. In the event of non-response, I leave the right to ask the MPs to take not only concrete measures but also to think about the staffing of the Lviv Railway which do not want to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u185	Please, Mikola Kravchenko. To prepare, Kuzmenko gave the word Mendushu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u186	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Respectable people's deputies, respected residents of the city of Kiev. With the arrival of the Czernovecki team to head the capital, you and I have witnessed an unprecedented capture and transfer of property from the territorial community of the city of Kiev. The media print daily material on the usurpation of power, ignoring Ukrainian laws. A few examples. This is also the Elitacenter, according to the Russian Dutch, on the issue of the capture of the zoo, the destruction of entrepreneurship, the seizure of communal property and the extensive sale of land. These are all ways of a new team. The takeover of the Bessarab market is generally higher than any rule of law, morality and law. The point is that, to date, a team led by a comrade, Mr. Chernovetsk, has set its goal of destroying property. And this is all happening in the background when the city is not ready for winter, when a number of serious problems have arisen in the city that the press is talking about. 20.10 This is the situation, that is, today, which has led me to introduce Bill No. 2403 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the separation of the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and the head of the Kiev City Public Administration. I explain that it was in 1990 that the Supreme Council, the Pro Capital Act, united these posts and this played a positive role in the development of the city of Kiev as the capital and at the Omelchenko that we saw that there were shortcomings, but not the injustices that are being created today by Czernovecki and his team. And it is today when we usurp power that these functions must be taken away from the random people who have taken the lead of Kiev today. The brigade, which is now part of the Chernobyl family, has created a new twist in the situation of the acquisition of municipal property. I think my bill will eventually help the Kievers, the city of Kiev will be freed from these people. It is through this bill that the Supreme Council will be able to help the people of the city of Kiev, the capital of our Ukraine, to free the European State from the people who today abuse the high situation in the city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Jaroslav Mendoza. Next, Lukyanczuk gave his word to the best applauseable Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, international politics is pragmatic, so diplomats are pleased to repeat the aphorism of several centuries ago, ascribed to Lord Wellington “There are no eternal enemies and eternal friends in England. There are eternal interests in England.” The more convincing in this context are the genuine expressions of respect and compassion for us Ukrainians on the side of a country tens of thousands of miles from Ukraine and its population, and the territory thousands of times smaller than the area of our Fatherland. I mean the Republic of Cuba. This is the only country in the world that has been providing state aid to Ukrainian children in the form of a disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant for 15 years. Since the 1990s, funds from the Cuban government have been paid to medical and health facilities in the Republic of Cuba, to qualified medical care and to a rehabilitation rate of over 20,000. Ukrainian children. Asked about the reasons for such a move, the Cubans say: “This is a gratitude to the Ukrainians who, after the Cuban Revolution, built schools and power stations, worked as teachers, engineers, instructors.” In general, the Cuban budget has spent some 350 million dollars on curing and curing Ukrainian children. That's what I'm talking about. I am talking about all of this because on November 8th, a resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba introduced by the United States” will be voted on in the United Nations General Assembly for the fifteenth time in a row. In 2005, 182 countries voted in favour, with all the European Union countries voting for the resolution, confirming that the majority of the world's countries view the continuation of the blockade as anachronism and the resurgence of the cold war. Another figure for information, during this period, is estimated by economists to have cost more than 81 billion dollars from the economic blockade of this small country. That's what I'm talking about. Under these conditions, I appeal to my fellow deputies for proposals, in the coming sessional week, to consider and accept the Supreme Council's statement on this issue and to express my attitude on the use of the blockade as a destructive tool in international politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u189	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, prepare Zabarski. Is it? Lukashuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u190	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, Bill 2082 of the People’s Deputies of Saints was to be considered in Parliament yesterday. About why it was withdrawn, about it further, and now about the bill itself. On September 8, Svetash passed a unique bill that envisioned a sharp increase in the transportation congregation during the first registration of the car and its subsequent operation. Yes, the owner of 24 “Volga” would have had to pay 4.5 000 dollars of the transport congregation per year, the owner of the old “Opela – Omega” – 3,800, “Folkswagena-Passat” – 1.710, the owner of an old vase “kopokika” would have to pay instead of 24 to 900 dollars per year. In fact, the author of the bill suggested that up to 4 - 5 million Ukrainian motorists or 75 percent of Ukrainian car owners should go into their pockets. This kind of improvement of life has already been offered to our fellow citizens today. He argued his amendments to the Festival with some sort of concern for Ukrainian ecology and the demands of the WTO. But we all know that Svetash is the founder, shareholder and honorable president of Autoinvestro. This organization sells new imported cars in Ukraine. The Santa also collects cars at the Kremenchuk factory. So there was room for a banal lobbying of your own business. If people find it uncomfortable to keep cars over 5 years of age, they will have to drive them to the dump and buy new cars in the Sanhedrin. Such a bill caused a dramatic negative reaction, even in the home of the Kharkiv Saint, local motorists staged a protest on October 9. Perhaps the MP himself realized that he had done so because he had submitted a revised version of his bill in exchange. In the first option, the owner of the “Volga” under the age of 10 was to pay almost a thousand dollars a year instead of 250 dollars a year. Now the festivities “repented” in the hands of the owner and offered to pay him not 250, but only 525 dollars a year. So it's only twice as much. Of course, this option was not popular with motorists, so yesterday a third version of the bill was introduced, and yesterday it was withdrawn. Why? At the initiative of the Holy One himself, who once again asked to be sent to work. I hope that, after that, similar bills, which, as a result of which citizens, millions of citizens will lose their money in this room will not appear independently of the factions from which they come out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u191	Thank you. Oleg Lukashuk, there is no Zuravko, Corge passed the word Pisarenko, to prepare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u192	Oleg Lukashuk, Uliya Volodymyrny Timoshenko. For the first time in years of independent Ukraine, we have approached the heating season completely unprepared and are standing on the verge of breaking the heating season. Government statements that 98 percent of the government is ready for the heating season seem vulnerable and not even competent. We hear signals from areas, especially Winnicki, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovski, about total incompetence for the heating season. And I'm convinced that if we don't go back to the price of 17 copies of gas that was in the government of Yulia Timoshenko and don't give up the gas of our own Ukrainian production to burn down the population as well as the budget sphere, we're going to bankrupt most of the utilities, because for our population, the price of gas offered by the government is 44, or 37 copies per cubic meter -- it's absolutely not liftable. But not only do I want to call on the government today, but I want to propose a construct. Yesterday on television, former speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament Vladimir Litwin published a fact that's very interesting, I think it's going to be for us today that our Ukrainian gas is sold to commercial structures. The truth is not known whether these commercial structures are in the days of Kuchma, or in the days of Echanurov, or today’s government. And I want to make an official request to the MP's interim commission of inquiry that cares about and studies the question of raising prices for gas and utilities, asking her to deal with this fact, and if it really does happen, break up these equipment and give the Ukrainian gas to our population, which will remove this problem and we will have the normal prices that our population can pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, Pisarenko, get ready for Visarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u194	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, as we see from today’s session, the issue of combating tobacco and alcohol is finally becoming important to our nation. I would like to report that today in the Supreme Council there are three drafts on this issue, these are the two bills that we have already discussed with you today, these are Bespalogo and Tomenko, and the third is Pisarenko, the author of which is Pisarenko. The difficult course in the issue of the ban on tobacco and alcohol allows us to identify the first victorious step taken by the Supreme Council, approving the bills of Tomenko and Bespalogo in the first reading. But in general, this question does not solve the existing problem. I suggest that we consider the world’s experience and go the other way more harshly and more radically. After all, it is not just a bill but the life and health of our citizens. The draft law that I have passed allows for two issues to be resolved. It will reduce the availability of information on alcohol and tobacco, especially for minors, and practically implements the Framework Convention with the World Health Organization and the fight against tobacco since May 21, 2001. The issue of banning tobacco advertising and later alcohol is a question of principle and in answering it, we must be honest with ourselves and the electorate. Scientific evidence clearly confirms that tobacco consumption and the effects of tobacco smoke are the causes of death, sickness, and disability. Last year, according to MOHs in Ukraine, 782,000 people and 100,000 people died, just count the figure, 100,000 of the 800 people almost died because of tobacco - related diseases. This is 1 in 8 people in Ukraine who die because of this addiction. To combat this scourge, most developed countries ratified the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco and established a total ban on tobacco advertising. Instead of inventing a bicycle or dragging the issue away, we should take advantage of the experience of European countries and introduce a complete ban on tobacco advertising, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights that produce tobacco products. I want to say that today there is only one approach to this question. But there is a general difference in the duration of such a ban. I think that we should ban tobacco advertising as quickly as possible today and use European and world experience to ban and promote alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u195	Yes, please let Vezhensky pass on the word to Artemenko. Get ready, Korsakov, Toothpick, Ribush Sergy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u196	I would like to read out the statement of the bloc, the factions of the “Our Ukraine” Block. “The Faction of the “Our Ukraine” Block is outraged by the situation with regard to the construction of a highway along the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye, which is to unite two equal parts of the city, where more than 800,000 Ukrainians live. For several years now, the team of “Our Ukraine” has been trying to solve this extremely sharp problem for the guards as quickly as possible, constantly pointing to obstacles from the leaders of the Party of Regions, who, on one side of the electoral process, claim to be willing to allocate funds and even build bricks into the foundation of the future bridge and, on the other hand, do not allocate the necessary costs in budget planning. The problem of highway construction has long been the case. In the days of Kuchma and then his successor, Yanukovich, was awarded a maximum of 80 million bridges in Zaporozhye. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. These amounts did not help to solve the problem more quickly, but they were preserved at the end of the financial year. This approach did not interfere with the 2004 presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine to state his great concern for the Zaporizci bridges throughout the country. Having come to power in 2005, President Yushchenko, the leader of “Our Ukraine”, made every effort to move this issue out of place. In line with his commission, the State budget for 2006 for the construction of the Dnipro River highway for the first time in the history of the building was 233 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The depositors, counting on these funds, almost sighed with relief. At last, the work of the builders was about to become engrossed. But that was not what was supposed to happen. From August onward, Janukovic was again in charge of executive power. After several months of trying to demand money, pleas, and pleas, it became clear that the situation in 2004 was repeated when the funds arrived at the end of December, causing the city’s authorities to have them return to the budget. It's just the abuse that seems to be the fact that in October of this year the government converted to bridge building, think about less than one and a half percent of the annual cost. This is because in an effort to keep pace, the builders work in debt at their own expense. This is because of the timeless financing and the increase in materials, and the cost increases every day. This is because Zaporozhye's city-donor is suffocating from a constant overload by transporting an old emergency passage across the Dnipro River. Every day, Zaporozhye and the entire area suffer economic damage. And the guards understand how the Yanukovich government once again mistreated them. Just as we can see the electoral slogan of the Party of Regions is running -- improving your life today. Even though the price of gas has increased, the possible cancellation of the benefits for low - level populations can no longer be surprised. This is the improvement of life today from the government of Yanukovich. In view of the above faction of the “Our Ukraine” Block, together with the entire Paris community, requires the government to immediately recalculate the costs for the continuation of the construction of the Dnipro Highway through the Dnipro River this year and to allocate 534 million dollars in the State Budget for 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u197	Thank you. Just wondering, what did they do eight months before there was another government?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u198	Sergey Rybuk, please, I can't see Netsky. I'm asking you a simple question. Yes, Gerasimov passed on the word, to prepare Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u199	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Rybub, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirsk. In the face of everyday problems, we all regret to forget the problems that are global in Ukraine. Among them, I want to remind you that the Chernobyl disaster is the problem that all of us are hostages of. For 20 years, the people have been chained to Chernobyl. This global planetary catastrophe has taken Ukraine to the 10 most polluted areas on earth. 3.5 million of our citizens live in mountains, suffering, poverty, and disease for 10 percent of our territory. They have already had 550,000 children, 85 percent of whom are sick. So the catastrophe continues, deepens, and carries on in more detail the scarier its negative impact not only on Chernobyl but on our entire nation and beyond. Thus, the health and life of the entire nation became a problem. But let us agree with why the attention of all of us, parliamentarians, governments, and people to this problem, has become so low. Even in the collection book, it's a good thing that they published – “20 years of Chernobyl disaster” says that there is a danger of social oblivion. Well, if we're going to social oblivion, then we're going to be a state that's going to go into social oblivion. And the conclusions-recommendation are there. But we know, and today I want to pay attention and listen very much to this problem. We've been copying for 20 years, sorry to say the same thing: medicine, healing, plus-minus 5 dollars to children for food, sick children. And then more sick kids. Even the migration of people in 20 years has not been resolved. In a number of cities, we bring the problem to the local level. I was at a district council session, and they said, "Come on, what have you left of us?" Do we have the money that only for the cure today, tomorrow he died???, not today, is not the approach at all. In fact, I think in its own time, poets, writers, publicists, politicians -- all of them, come on, Chernobyl problem. Today, you see this situation, today we need to discuss the radio, the television that was released when the cities were freed and so forth. I'm gonna finish the time. The problem isn't money, because the problem, as we've allocated a billion and a half a year, is last year, a billion and a half. And the legislation doesn't say 3.3 billion more, but 14.8 billion, that is to activate our work, raise our national level.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u200	Thank you. Everyone in this session room is very supportive of you, so you don't have to agitate them. The rest is not because the microphone has already been turned off. Catherine Samuel, please. He's got Gnatenko Lev behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u201	Dear voters and those left in the hall! Yesterday, we all witnessed the expected, predictable march of orange ministers who joined the anti-crisis government at the request of the President of Ukraine. There is absolutely no tragedy for the government or for the Ukrainian people. On the contrary, I think there has been a cleansing. In my opinion, this is how the President and his team went to the shelters of responsibility. And from there will be observations whether the Ukrainian people will die or not, whether it will be warm, whether it will be fed, whether it will be hungry, whether the Ukrainian economy will work, whether it will continue to fall to the bottom, whether it will work, whether it will eventually work, we will support the domestic producer, or not? Who will correct what you did in the orange in two years? You're saying that the draft budget is not what it's supposed to be, is socially out of line, and we agree. But, excuse me, who was the first to suspend a whole series of Ukrainian laws on social protection for veterans, blacksmiths, miners? The first prime minister of Ukraine was Victor Yushchenko. He set up these ambushes. Who stopped giving hot meals to their children and even made school textbooks inaccessible to the average Ukrainian family? Scream to your health. And these questions can continue. There is no answer and there will be no answer because the orange team does not want to be responsible for everything that is happening in our country in Ukraine. How the harmful cats were made, and now the clean hands. You did it to make things worse with your neighbors, with Russia, knowing that we depend energetically on it, you made cloudy gas prices. What has been done in a year other than destruction? Who saves the Kahov irrigation system? Let's keep quiet. Why, please tell me, at such a critical time, those who supported the President and those on his team today have gone into the shadows. I regret that the Criminal Code does not hold all the prime ministers and prime ministers responsible for the widespread destruction and destruction of our nation. Because if that were the case in our Criminal Code, then they would be where they are. And on account of today's law, you don't have to break your head. Well, please give up 7.5 billion, and we'll give each family the money they predicted. And it's gonna be honest, not lying. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u202	Please, Leo Gnatenko. Get ready for the girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u203	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected radio and television audiences! From this high rostrum, I want to draw attention to the problem of inadequate housing for military personnel and their families. On October 1st, more than 58,000 military personnel are stationed in the quarter of the Ministry of Defence. The main reasons are the uncertainty of the scope and how to finance the implementation of an integrated housing programme for military personnel and their families. As a result, the law on State guarantees of social protection for military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces on granting housing within three years of their release is being enforced. Priority is to meet the target budget, which is the construction of the Ministry of Housing Defence, which is nearly twice as low as the market value. The State budget provides 1 billion 271 million dollars for construction and housing. However, the monthly budget schedule approved by the Ministry of Finance does not even take into account the minimal need to finance the construction. Most of the funds are due in the last month of the year, up to 80% in October-December. The customer’s inability to meet his financial obligations, increase construction and transfer terms, reduce the pace of construction, and increase his receivables and creditors ’ debt. There are even more problems, and this could happen in 2007. Projection of the construction of the Ministry of Architecture and Housing as chief budget manager for the construction of housing for military personnel may cause the construction of the Ministry of Housing to be halted for almost a year in violation of the plans for the construction of buildings. This is more than 200 properties per 15700 apartments that are at different stages of readiness. The need for the transfer of an unfinished construction project, the redesign of the permit documentation, the change of funding arrangements, the construction of housing under the conditions of the rations will be halted, and more than one and a half thousand apartments will remain under construction at the end of the year. There is a high probability that sanctions will be applied by civilian construction agencies to the Ministry of Defence. I propose that for 2001 I leave the chief budget officer for the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to carry out the construction work. In 2007, the housing transfer system to Minbud was operational and since 2008 the Ministry of Defense had been relieved of its functions. The MP's request will be sent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, boy, and for one minute, there'll be a replica of the school. His name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished MPs, TV and radio. I was forced to come to this rostrum by the grief that struck the village today. When we received the initial 2007 budget document, we saw a terrible figure being given to the village. With great power, we adopted the Budget Code, and the Budget Code states that peasants have the right to receive 10 percent of the budget. If you divide by this 2007 budget, that would be a good number. But not only are we 17 billion allocated, according to the Budget Code, but the original was 7.5. We began praying and bowing down to all the officials and the Budget Committee. And now we're told, and what you're making noise there, we've added a billion to you. You can also judge how the village can survive under these conditions. If you're a peasant today. For example, let me give you an example in the area of Jashkov. If we have 25 percent of the area, the remaining 75 percent of the people are forced to smoke who knows what, because after the war there was a straw, which was burned out, the woods were cut down, the forests were removed. How Can I Survive the Village Today? And I can remind you how to survive. A pensioner who receives a minimum pension has to pay 250 liters [250 L] of milk for a gas balloon. And we know how much of that gas there is. For you to know, mineral water is considered to be “Borjomi” healing, well, to buy a liter of water, you have to give two buckets of milk. Is this the attitude of a peasant today? Right now we're here with normal laws that let's save the village, let's let the kids have their babies so they can raise their children. Who will be born? There are some pensioners left in the village. I mean, in my village today, it's a beautiful village, a promising village, more than 20 houses are empty today because no one wants to buy them, once. And the second is that to buy it, you have to pay more for the shipment, what it stands for, this house. It's a village that's been gassed today. It's a village that doesn't need water. These are the roads. That's all. People are dying. If we had three children last year, 36 died. Even in the '70s, we had two first-class, parallel first-class classes, so today we've lived to have such a result that for the following year we don't even form first-class. I want to tell all the government officials and the budget committee, come back with your faces, give back what we've earned. After all, we worked for nothing in the postwar period. We paid the loan, we gave it all to the state. We gave up our health.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, 1 minute to school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u207	Thank you. I'm going to try to invest in one minute because, in principle, I don't want to characterize and discuss the predecessors' speeches. Some were told by the electorate, giving appropriate support, and all others are responsible for the state of the country that is and therefore they can use this rostrum only in order to inform them how great the success is, how good life is in the country and how great it is living here. But to be honest, I'm here as a representative of Western Ukraine, a little ashamed of one of the representatives of Western Ukraine. It's a question of course to the Party of Regions and People of Intellectual, and Mental Level, you take the list, I understand that it wasn't the first. But at least you can work with him and explain that the presentation from this rostrum is not used to speak nonsense, at least to the address of each person present. So I hope someone there will hear me, and they will pay attention to me, to someone who just has no right to talk about anyone, nothing to talk about, anything to say about me from this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-20-m0.u208	Yes, dear colleagues, you and I have exhausted the agenda, and we have spoken with the sufferer. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'm reminding you that next week we're working with voters, I'm stressing, with voters in the districts. I would very much like them to see us there, and the next plenary meeting will take place on October 31 at 10 a.m.
