ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, parliamentary guests, radio audiences, television viewers. September 21st, Thursday. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Put your cards in. The "Council" system is activated. Please register. [[10:02:56]] There were 415 national deputies registered, and the morning session was declared open. Today, the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Ahmtova Renata Leonidovich was 40 years old. There is an offer to greet him with applause and to wish him good and health. You have a list of issues for discussion and decision - making. But before that, I'll make an announcement. On the basis of a personal statement by Ukrainian National Deputy Savosin Hennady Anatoliyovich, a member of the Socialist Party's MP, I inform you of his membership in the Anti-Cristian Coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the documents are properly drawn up. At the same time, according to article 27 of paragraph 15 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two factions — the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Socialists — may request a recess for half an hour, but in order not to take a break, a three-minute permit can be avoided. No objections? I won't. So I'm not going to call a break, please, Hara Vasil Grigorovich makes a short statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u2	Respectable residents of Donbass! Respectable colleagues and respected journalists! I've heard a lot of things in my life that are stupid, rude, stupid, but what I've said by the people's representative of Food is not within the human scope. Each death of a miner at a depth of 1,000 metres by the Donbassians and all normal people is seen as a personal tragedy. What's more, when there's tens of them. All over the world, mining is deadly, and people have to pay human lives for the coal they mine. I was born and lived all my life in Donetsk, where miners are the most respected people in the labour region. Today and tomorrow, in my native Donbassa Traur, on one of the best mines in Ukraine, a mine called the West, a tragedy killed by miners. It would seem that any person with a heart and a brain should grieve and offer condolences to the families of the dead. Even fierce enemies at all times have never bled over the woes of the fallen families of miners. But there are also nonhumans who have no conscience, no soul, no brain, who rejoice in this tragedy and try to earn political capital. It is unfortunate that one of them is the National MP of Zjiživov, a member of the “Our Ukraine” faction, who has treated the tragedy with unseen statements in the media. I quote: “The death of miners is the punishment of God in the Donetsk region for the support of the wrong political power”. I can't and I don't want to comment. The only thing I can say is as a national MP, and as acting chairman of the Donetsk Regional Council of the Trade Union on behalf of not only members of trade unions that are part of a regional trade union, of all Donbass citizens, that you, Misha, are a depraved, moral freak. I don't know if God's punishment will catch up with you, but the fact that five million Donets will curse you, that's for sure. It's clear with Poživnov. But not only me, I am surprised by the silent position of “Our Ukraine” in the coming of a member of its faction. I know for a fact that there are few, most normal people in fact. I don't believe they're in solidarity with this inhuman. On behalf of the families of the victims, on behalf of my native Donbass, on behalf of my faction of the Party of the Regions, I request our Ukrainian faction to repent for the inhumane act of your representative of political power and to apologize to the region that is the backbone of Ukraine's economy. Honourable members of our Ukraine faction, show your civilized European face! And finally, Your Honor Alexander Alexanderovich, I ask you to mention the dead miners for a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u3	All rise, please. Please sit down. Before we go to the consideration of issues, I would like to look at things that are essentially lifelike, maybe with eternal problems, we need to be careful in terms on the one hand and on the other, because there are tragedies, and we need to be human to deal with tragedies, and no one has to do anything about it to make any meaningful statements, conclusions, speculations. This is unnecessary in society as a whole, and more so when it comes to representatives of the people, national deputies. Today, according to article 96 of the Constitution and article 37 of the Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers is presenting a project on Ukraine’s State Budget. He's looking at the proper procedure, there's a report by the Minister of Finance, the First Deputy Prime Minister, then he's answering a 15-minute question, a 30-minute report. Then the committee head's report will be discussed in an orderly manner: factions and committee representatives. 60 minutes will be given for such a discussion to take place. So the word is now given to First Deputy Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov for a report on the occasion of the submission of the draft budget for 2007. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. In line with current budgetary legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed and is presenting for your consideration a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. The draft budget is designed in line with the main directions of budgetary policy for 2007, the Supreme Council's proposals to them and the concept of Ukraine's development, presented on 5 September 2006 at the Supreme Council of Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine. The formulation of the 2007 State Budget project is being carried out in the context of the adoption between 2005 and 2006 of populists before electoral decisions aimed at setting up economically unwarranted and financially unsecured payments. False fiscal pressure policies have led to a sharp decline in economic growth in 2005 and a slowdown in national production in 2006, increased transport and energy tariffs, increased labour force, significant competitive pressures on the internal and external markets have weakened the price competitive advantages of Ukrainian enterprises and have negatively affected investment activities. Landowners have not been able to keep a steady and necessary amount of gross capital. Businesses have become active in the shadow of their turnover, the negative external trade surplus in the first half of the year has amounted to a minus one billion U.S. dollars against a positive salinity of about $7 billion in 2004. Some of the goods accounted for $3.3 billion over 8 months of the current year, a growing imbalance in wages and productivity, state social commitments, economic development, and budget opportunities. As a result, in 2006, we expect an imbalance of about 7 billion dollars, which the government is now trying to neutralize by anti-crisis measures. Taking into account the current situation, budgetary policy in 2007 will focus primarily on stabilizing the financial and economic situation in the country, implementing structural reforms and eliminating the negative effects of the populist policies of previous governments, addressing the most important socio-economic problems, raising social standards and living standards, and restoring the innovation and investment model of economic development. The macroeconomic parameters of the budget, you can see on the slide. One of the most important tasks for today is to restore macroeconomic stability. By implementing urgent measures to address crises in the economy and in the social sphere in the current year and in budgetary policy next year, we are laying the foundation for sustained and long-term economic growth. We need to move from an economic development model that aims to stimulate consumption to models that stimulate investment activity and develop domestic production. We will pursue an active policy of supporting the domestic producer, domestic exports and the development of imported production. Stabilising economic development, improving trade balance and increasing investment activity will help to maintain exchange stability. The efficiency of the budget and monetary policy, as well as the promotion of the release of end-use goods of domestic production, should be the main drivers of a stable price situation. Basic options for budget income and expenditure. The income of Ukraine’s 2007 budget is projected at about 180 billion dollars, 14 percent more than the plan. I would like to highlight the 2006 plan. In fact, much more. The projected expenditure of the budget is about 200 billion dollars, an increase of 14 percent, again, in 2006. The government budget for Ukraine for 2007 is projected at 140 billion dollars, about 12 percent more than the 2006 plan. The revenue increase of the General Fund of the State Budget for the following year is about 14 percent. The planned increase in 2006 was 14.5 percent and, in fact, much less. Taking into account the imbalance in this year's budget of about 7 billion dollars, the real increase in the income of the general fund will be saved at the same level as in the current year. This means that without radical changes in tax legislation, there can be no sharp increase in budget spending. There have been such attempts, but they have led to a sharp decline in economic growth. For example, in 2005, income increased 1.6 times and real GDP increased by only 2 percent. That's what this is all about. And taking into account these factors, the level of reallocation of gross domestic product through the revenue of the consolidated budget in 2007 will be 30.2%, which corresponds to the main directions of budgetary policy for the following year. In the 7 months of 2006, this figure was 34.4%, largely due to a reduction in fiscal pressure on the real economy. First of all, we're lowering the income accounting standard for part of the income, the income of economic organizations from 50 to 15% for state enterprises. So about 2 billion dollars are left at the disposal of these enterprises for the innovation of manufacturing, its modernization and technological re-arms, and the deployment of energy-efficient technologies. For critics of reducing the cost of state-owned enterprises, I would like to remind them that the 2005 plan from the coming of the state-owned enterprises, 5.6 billion, was executed by only 41% and in the monetary term was 2.3 billion dollars. Secondly, we're giving up clearing calculations in the housing and utility sphere. Thirdly, we're reducing the rate of the community to buy currency from 1.3 to 1%. Fourthly, we cancel the calculation of the over-calculus of the payroll fund. Fifthly, we will improve tax legislation aimed at correcting shortcomings in existing legislation, from value added tax, from corporate income tax, from excise collection, from improving tax administration, from restricting certain tax benefits. The government deficit threshold for the following year is set at 15.1 billion dollars, or 2.55% of GDP. So it's at the planned rate of the last few years. Here we need to take into account the deficit in local budgets, which in 2005 amounted to 1.4 billion dollars, for 2006 to 2.8 billion dollars. In 2007, we plan to take control of the situation at the local level. Funding for the public budget in the following year is planned at the expense of government domestic and external borrowings. As shown in the graph, the ratio of domestic and external debt to GDP is within safe limits and is much lower than the Maastricht criteria. At the end of 2007, the national external debt threshold is set at about $10 billion, $10 billion, an internal debt of about $1 billion. The rise in social standards and the standard of living of our fellow citizens remains key to the government's work. In the next year’s budget, social spending accounts for about 80 percent. At the same time, a relaunch of the innovation and investment model of the economy should be a source of accelerated population growth. So for the next year, budget policy -- support for innovation and investment in the economy is 26.8 billion dollars. This is almost 1.6 times higher than in 2005, when the budget's income was so-called, record growth. The next year, the budget support for the innovation and investment development of the economy is going to be, on the slide, you can see that. Along with the funds that invest businesses, and we're planning to get at least a hundred billion dollars, it's going to provide a powerful resource for the sustainable development of the economy. In the medium term, the total annual investment volume by the state and private property should increase to 200 billion dollars per year. For the first time, the coming of the General Fund of the State Budget from the privatization of state property is used in the following priority areas: fuel and energy complex – 0.3 billion dollars; housing and utilities and socio-economic development of regions – 2.3 billion dollars; agri-industrial complex – 1.9 billion dollars; processing industry – 1 billion dollars; construction sector – 1.4 billion dollars; stabilization fund – 3 billion dollars. There is a 28 percent increase in construction costs, technical refurbishment and capital repair of mining equipment. More than eight times the cost of developing machinery for the agri-industrial complex has been increased. The development of the defence and industrial complex has nearly doubled. More than twice the cost of developing domestic aviation has been increased. The urgent need to reduce the energy intensity of GDP, especially given the gas supply problem, has put energy-saving technologies at the forefront. Systemic financial resources have been launched to increase energy efficiency in various sectors of the economy. The government budget provides a budget programme totaling about one and a half billion dollars for the targets. 767 million for investment projects in economics, primarily the introduction of energy-saving technologies and technologies from the production of alternative sources of fuel. 701 million dollars of state budget subsidies to local energy savings budgets In addition, local energy conservation measures can be used to finance state budget subsidies for investment projects aimed at the socio-economic development of regions in the amount of about one billion dollars. In order to ensure the implementation of the State policy for the development of a mineral raw material base for the implementation of the national programme, it is envisaged to target 616 million bracelets. The draft budget for agrarian development and social security costs for the first time amounted to 13 billion gruels. There is a 26 - percent increase in the cost of agro-industrial programs. This includes additional expenditure on animal production and credit support for agricultural producers — 1,567 million dollars. Financial support for agri-industrial enterprises through a short-term and long-term lending mechanism to partially offset the cost of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production. Along with an increase in the innovation and investment component in the next year's budget, a substantial resource has been put in place to improve the standard of living of the population. Expenditure of the Pension Fund will increase by 14 per cent in 2007 before the 2006 plan and will amount to about 80 billion dollars. This is a real increase in the income of our fellow citizens. For the first time, the Pension Fund will be indisposed. That is to say, own income from the fund will ensure that pension payments in the solidarity system are paid in full, taking into account the maintenance of the minimum retirement age for the required insurance service at the minimum subsistence level for disabled persons. As you can see on the slide, in the 2007 State Budget project, there's a 0.5 percent reduction from the salary to the Pension Fund. For the first time, the budget of the Social Insurance Fund will be inconvenient with temporary loss of employment. We're exempting the non-proprietary functions of the Social Insurance Fund from temporary loss of employment. Childbearing assistance and care before reaching the age of three will be made possible by the budget, and it will be easier to obtain it. This aid is projected to increase according to the increase in living minimum for working persons. For low - income families, the amount of this assistance will be 262.5 dollars at the beginning of the year and 274 at the end of the year. During the last days, there has been a great deal of resonance in the issue of the payment of one - time assistance at the birth of a child. I will note that there are no restrictions on the size of this aid for 2007 in the State Budget project. As in the current year, it will amount to 8,000,500 dollars. The total amount of one - time assistance at birth increases by 10.4 percent against what is foreseen in the current year. The 2007 State Budget Project provides that citizens will receive assistance in childbirth through labour and social protection agencies. The appointment and payment of the child’s birth will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In 2007, living minimum per person is projected to increase by 8 per cent per month compared to 2006 to ensure real population income growth. For the following year, the subsistence minimum is set at one person per month as of January 1, 492, as of April 1, 501, as of October 1, 510. There is also a quarterly increase in the subsistence minimum, taking into account the consumer price index. I'm going to notice that the rate of real wage growth is greater than real GDP. If measures are taken to increase the rate of real wage growth, inflation will increase accordingly. For example, in 2005, it reached 13.5 percent. There has been increased support for families with children, scholarships for students and students in vocational and technical schools, Chernobyl payments, pensions: an additional resource of one billion dollars. I will point out that public support should be given to citizens who really need it. So in 2007, we offer state aid, benefits, compensation, guarantees and other social benefits, taking into account citizens' total income and material wealth. An additional 6.4 billion. The money is provided to cover the salaries of budget workers. On the basis of the minimum wage foreseen in the budget, from January 1, 400, from July 1, 420, and by the way, 400 will be set from December 1st, and December 1, 450. The size of the official salary, the rate of duty, is expected to increase by 12.5 percent in a year. In view of the entry into force of the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Persons of First January 2007, it is proposed to reduce the congregation’s current rates of compulsory state pension insurance by 0.5 percent for persons whose income does not exceed the subsistence minimum for working persons. The budget provides about 4.5 billion dollars next year, or 1.6 times more than in 2005. Additional measures are being taken to reduce energy consumption by 10 percent, to increase the share of municipal energy services from the State Budget special fund. Measures will also be taken to reduce energy loss in the production and supply of heat. In the 2007 draft law, population tariff increases are accounted for and increased by 1 billion, or 1.6 times the cost of providing benefits and housing subsidies to the population. The cost of housing services in the family’s total income will not exceed what is taken into account in determining the subsistence minimum. Yes, on the basis of the cost of living, a minimum of 10 per cent is included in the cost of residential services for working citizens, for non-working citizens 13.5 per cent. In the following year, it is predicted that the cost of housing services, including the total income of families of 2 pensioners living in a 2-room apartment, will not exceed 13.7 percent, and that families of 3 people will make up no more than 10 percent. It should also be borne in mind that the following year the average wage is projected to increase to 1,223 bracelets, pensions to 484 bracelets. The social security and pension costs of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster are increasing to a quarter. Nearly 60 percent increase the cost of compensation for families with children and for the free feeding of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. By December 31, 2007, we are planning to complete payment of compensation to citizens for lost immovable property in the event of relocation or self-removal from radioactively polluted areas. The 2007 draft of the Ukrainian State Budget takes full account of the costs of increasing the number of war participants' promotions and pensions, which will be calculated as of 1 January 2007. be calculated depending on the size of the subsistence minimum for disabled persons. The following year, 380 million dollars are planned for the cost of annual annual financial assistance to war veterans by Victory Day. We continue to implement a phased implementation of the Ukrainian Children of War Act. In 2006, a 25 per cent discount on housing services and benefits in transport is being financed. The following year, 1.8 million children of war, who are disabled, receive a total pension allowance of 430 million dollars. Helping people with disabilities is an extremely important aspect of social policy. Nearly 100 million dollars have been raised for sanatorium treatment and the purchase of orthopedic prosthetic products, means of movement, rehabilitation. Moreover, we believe that the State should be concerned about the quality of such products, so for the first time in the State budget, funds will be allocated for technical restocking and the condition of prosthetic enterprises to the requirements of an international standard. The expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget to compensate for lost savings for the following year is planned at 650 million dollars, or 4.2 times the actual expenditure for that purpose in 2005. Let me draw your attention, on the slide you can see how these compensations were paid in the current year. In August alone, our government listed the first tranche of Savings to pay off these compensations, and in 2005, a widely advertised campaign of compensation to the population of real savings, you can see, it only made 155 million dollars. In 2.4 times, by 5.3 billion dollars, there is an increase in the amount of assistance to families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children, and temporary state assistance to families. [[you can see on the slide]] The rate of increase in expenditure on the budget for health care is 18 percent higher than the rate of increase in expenditure on the budget. Not only have we increased the cost of health care but we also concentrate on the most pressing problems in the field. Over a billion dollars of public budget expenditure are being spent on centralized treatments for tuberculosis, AIDS, oncology, cardiovascular and vascular diseases in the population. More than twice as much funding for the state programme: child oncology and state prevention programme for cardiovascular and vascular diseases. 1.8 times the cost of combating tuberculosis has been increased. Almost three times the cost of a centralized purchase of modern medical equipment has been increased. Another 100 million dollars will be directed to equip rural hospitals. At the same time, we need to realize that the practice of budget spending is imperfect. Moreover, we have isolated cases of abuse. Above all, we will organize the purchase and use of medical equipment and equipment. First of all, we're introducing marginal prices for medical supplies, medical equipment and medical supplies that are purchased at budget costs. Secondly, we are tasking the expert board of the Ministry of Health to control procurement, quality and effective use of medicines. We have to go to the pilot next year on health - care reform projects. As Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic said in the programme speech, it is not a bed-and-dwelling place to finance the treatment of the sick. Investing in education is our investment in the future. The number of specialists should go to quality. Education must be reformed, especially higher and secondary. Today, for example, there is a sharp shortage of professionals in the workplace. That's because we have a strong enough network of vocational and technical schools, over 900 vocational schools, where there are about 480,000 students. At the same time, there is no link between the government’s procurement of labor personnel and the real needs of the economy. In order to remedy this situation, it is proposed that the employment and labour market balance indicators be established with the participation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In principle, we consider the proposed approach in the draft law to the use of the funds for fundamental research that funding is proposed only if it is given to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, an expert board of positive conclusions on the appropriateness of spending in each scientific development. If, in previous years, the financing of the state budget housing and utilities provided for only a few elements of development, such as the acquisition of a mobile warehouse, for the first time in 2007, the funds were earmarked for the implementation of the general programme for the reform and development of the housing and utility sector. To address the problem of submerging urban areas in the State Budget project next year, a new budget programme of 65 million dollars is envisaged for the first time. From year to year the problem of housing for those who have the right to do so is increasing. Money is secreted by the state, but it seems that money goes like water into the sand. In order to increase the efficiency of spending on housing for budgetary institutions and power structures, this function is concentrated in the Ministry of Construction. Non - inherent functions associated with the assignment and recalculation of pensions are released from the force structure. This function will be provided by the Pension Fund of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u5	Mikola Janovich, please. Dear colleagues, I understand that the budget is such a matter of concern to everyone, so you should discuss it more quietly. Please listen carefully. The principle of things. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u6	Non - inherent functions associated with the assignment and recalculation of pensions are released from the force structure. This function will be provided by the Pension Fund of Ukraine. For this purpose, the state budget provides 10.3 billion dollars. In retirement, we have a lot of imbalances. For example, today the military pension per person per month is three or four times higher than the labour pension. Moreover, nearly 200 dollars exceeds the average level of cash provided by an active officer. The basic principles for establishing budgetary relations between the State and local self-government for 2007 are a clear distribution on a stable basis of financial resources between the State and local budgets, regional development and the role of local self-government. The volume of local budget expenditure in Ukraine’s consolidated budget for 2007 will increase from 36 per cent to 43.5 for the following year. As far as the income of the local budgets is concerned, the plans of Minfin are real. For 2007, subsidies from the State to local budgets were increased by 55.5 percent to 17 billion dollars. The left share of the selected funds will be allocated to public social protection programmes. Thus, in the 2007 budget, it was possible to preserve social focus and restore innovation and investment incentives to the economy. We're counting on fruitful cooperation with all the MP factions, the experts involved in the drafting of the law. I strongly believe that budget policy will be a source of accelerated population growth next year, building the economic potential of our country. The government is ready to work with you, I'm counting on your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u7	Honorable deputies. Mikola Janović has completed the presentation of the draft budget, and you have 15 minutes to ask. Please sign in. Lukyanenko asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u8	Lukyanenko, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Mikola Azarovich, Mikola Janović. I have asked several times as head of the Association of Hungermare Researchers and the deputy of the Supreme Council to finance the Association of Hungermare Researchers in Ukraine in accordance with Presidential decrees. The President issued decrees on November 11, 2005, No. 1087 and 1088 and Decree No. 1544 on November 4, 2005. These decrees oblige the Association of Starving Researchers to finance the construction of a memorial and to carry out statutory activities. I don't see it in the budget project, how do I explain it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u9	During the current year, a National Memory Institute was established, with an estimated expenditure of about 6 million dollars in the following year. To your question. I'm going to look at this question and answer it during the first reading of the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u10	It's German.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u11	Elena Netecka, faction of Party regions. Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u12	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u13	Dear Nikolai Janović, first of all thank you for your informative report. At the same time, I think you've missed two moments, probably due to a lack of time. First, you didn't name the budget gaps you got. Secondly, the budget is a transitional budget. Unfortunately, it has been the case that, over the past three years, instead of dealing with legislation, we have all been involved in politics, and life imposes new demands. As you are looking at the establishment of a working group entitled “Kabmin – Supreme Council – Association of Cities” to consolidate the challenges that life poses. And as a prisoner, I ask, will there be bridges in Zaporozhye?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. There will be a bridge in Zaporozhye. There is sufficient funding for this in the State Budget project. With regard to the creation of a working group, the government is set up for constructive cooperation and we are ready to consider, between the first and second readings of the budget, the proposals of national MPs, factions and local self-government, including. Part of the holes, as you put it. In the current year, 1.5 billion dollars will not come from privatization. About two billion are planned for an unrealistic income from the profits of businesses. We do have an increase in the number of business losses. This started in 2005, continued in 2006, and we have to put an end to this trend. We failed to borrow abroad, which was foreseen by the Ministry of Finance in the current year, about three billion. We're not going to have about one billion dollars for the realisation of the property of military towns, surplus weapons, and so on. That's about seven billion dollars, and we're now in the anti-crisis program predicting a whole range of measures to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u15	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u16	Mr. Reporter, I have a very clear question, because there are many debates in the press about social figures and they are very resonant in society. We've been given a draft budget that says that the minimum wage of January 1st is 400 dollars. Minfin told the press yesterday that we didn't read it correctly, as of December 1, as budgeted. I wanted to clarify whether the minimum wage would go up to 400. The second position is the same as many discussions about the payment of $8.5,000 for the birth of a child. I also wanted to hear your position. And the third question, with regard to the resonance issue, is the hospital. You offer to pay 30 days to the hospital and 30 days to the business administration. Is there really any serious argument here, for I fear many abuses on this issue, since it is doubtful that the hospital will continue to pay for the business.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. The minimum wage will be set from December 1st of this year. The 2007 budget will reflect this fact and continue to set wages at $400. of January 1. Understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u18	So it goes on from December 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u19	Of course, it's going on. No one will change that norm since December 1st. The birth of a child. That was the subject of such a noise, which was terrifying. Eight and a half thousand dollars, as paid, will be paid. Without any restrictions. People’s deputies are entitled to set some standard of aggregate income for the payment of loving social assistance. Let's limit it to you. This appropriation is intended Do you have a deal? That at the income of the family over 1 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Is that fair or not? It's a deal. And let's stop speculating on this, let's not build up a culture. Someone's telling me that pregnant moms are experiencing stress right now. Let's calm down our pregnant moms. Right away, at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u20	Mikola Janović, Mikola Janović, you are making a draft decision on a proposal of 1 million. The stress is not women, but men, so let's take it easy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u21	With regard to payment for the Lycarnios. Dear National Deputies! There's a lot of money in the budget that I think should be agreed between us in this room. And the government is ready for a constructive dialogue, ready to retreat. In large numbers, these standards apply to the organized circle of persons. And they don't have much of an impact on the social situation in the country. So the government, once again, is ready to cooperate and balance these norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u22	Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich. None. Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u23	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy, Acid Vassil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u24	Please, Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u25	Dear Nikolai Janovich! At another press conference, the Government of Ukraine, my Government, was accused of proposing that import duties be abolished for goods imported into Ukraine and at the same time proposed that additional duties be imposed on imported oil to Ukraine. You are also being accused of returning free economic zones and priority development. But the main thing is that the Government is supposed to reduce the pension costs by 5.3 billion dollars, i.e. it does not plan to increase pensions for pensioners. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u26	Dear Vassili Aleksevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We are prepared to respond to constructive questions, constructive criticism, but clear misinformation is difficult to identify. The budget of the Pension Fund has been increased, with a significant increase. I'm pointing out that the pension fund's budget is inquisitive to about the general fund's income. At least one order has numbers. Therefore, there is no reduction in the expenditure of the Pension Fund. And that's what I'm saying for the whole country. Moreover, there is an increase in pensions. With regard to free economic zones? God, calm down about the criticism of free economic zones! No free economic zone, unfortunately, has earned much. No investment project in the Territory of Priority Development has yet been earned. They don't want investors, they don't believe us, they don't want you, they don't want to believe us, they don't want to believe you. They don't want to invest. So calm down, for God's sake. If such investment projects show up, I'll be the first to come to this room and tell you about this investment project in detail. Do you have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u27	It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u28	Let's talk about oil processing. What I called the policy of government, I am in Russian because the question was given in Russian. What is the policy of those Governments that have led to a 30 per cent reduction and, in some periods, to a virtually complete halt to refineries in our country? And this is a crisis in oil processing, a very serious crisis. And we are now thinking about how to remedy this situation. How do you fix it? And make the process of oil processing beneficial, because no one is going to import or process oil at these factories. And as yet no decision has been taken by the Government, I stress, as in terms of tariffs, that I am moving forward because there will probably be such issues as to reduce or increase import duties and export duties on petroleum products. The Government has yet to study the situation in detail and carefully. And we will necessarily come up with the solutions that will allow for tariffs, I will run ahead, compensate the population for the loss, and, on oil processing, we will resume the full operation of the refineries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Bogesheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u30	Natalia Bogasheva, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to my colleague, Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u32	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine". Mikola Janović, I sincerely welcome you to the fact that you really want to speak English and welcome you with quite remarkable progress. I'm serious and I'm honest. As far as my questions are concerned. I'd like to put them in the context of local self-government. Mikola Janović, first of all, how will the budget deficit be eliminated by 2.6 billion this year, because it consisted of energy carriers, which is the problem of the base already next year? The other one. Mikola Janović, I don't believe that you've balanced budgets, because only the income portion has increased theoretically by 15 percent, and your plans are up to 35 percent. It's a hollow balance. How do you cover them? And the third. Why don't we put in direct budget funding at least for cities, encouraging local reform today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u33	The deficit in local budgets did not result from the lack of payment for energy. There's just no payment. The deficit in the local budgets has resulted from local borrowings. As a result of the uncontrolled financing of the Ministry of Finance, the local councils borrowed 2.6 billion bracelets in 2006. And that's the problem. The lack of funding for energy will be addressed by the government, and sufficient funds are available for these purposes in 2007. Moreover, we anticipate the creation of a stable fund of 3 billion dollars, and we expect that we from this fund will be able to compensate for both local budgets and the population of possible losses. Each budget of the region was to be discussed in detail by the Ministry of Finance and the expenditure and income of local budgets were increased by about 36 percent compared to the current year. That's a significant increase. That's why we think that. The base is. Dear Anatoly, the base is, it's calculated. A protocol of contradictions or disagreements has been drawn up with each area. And we've made clear what questions need to be worked out in detail. And between the first and the second readings we're going to have these questions, they're going to add up to a small amount, and we're going to solve that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u34	Please, Rybub. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u35	Thank you. Deputy Ribukh, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomir. Dear Mikola Janović, more than 13 billion for the development of the APC, is already the indicator when we are on the verge not only of increasing production but also of efficient farming. And before I ask you this question, the growth of direct state support for the development of animals 2.3 times is just great! Let the peasants hear what the price will be good, and hopefully the market will be for animal production. But questions about the restructuring of agriculture and vegetation. In the government where you worked before, there were two articles, police articles, for the development of hops and pottery. And we've already invested a lot of money there. Now it's gone. Two billion dollars plus 10 million dollars. How do you see that you might be able to restore us because these are just depressing territories and effective fields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u36	The very significant achievement of this budget in terms of supporting the agro-industry complex is that for the first time we're moving to direct funding, to subsidizing agriculture from the General Fund of the State Budget. So we don't start the money with different schemes, we go directly to the agro-industrial complex. This is, I think, an extremely important achievement of this project. With regard to restructuring and reconstruction programs, Polissa. I agree with you. And between the second and the second reading, we'll take this program into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u37	Thank you, sit down, please. All right, have a seat. Makeyenko Volodymyrovich, head of the budget committee, has the floor. He's got 15 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u38	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, honourable members of the Government, invited by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 37 of the Budget Code, September 14, this year, submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2007. In line with the requirements of article 39 of the Budget Code, the Budget Committee conducted a preliminary evaluation of the draft State Budget Act and authorized the following: A preliminary study of the draft Law indicates that it will visit the requirements of the budget resolution and the practice of preparing such projects over the past five years. The state-of-the-art estimates take into account the proposals and the Supreme Council's mission to the main directions of budgetary policy for 2007, most of the proposals and assignments are taken into account. In particular, the principles of the proposal and the mandate of the Supreme Council are taken into account, such as the setting up of a share of the redistribution of gross domestic product through a consolidated budget of about 30%. The project provides 30.2 per cent. Taking into account the expenditure for the further phased implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of War Children, it is proposed that pensions for persons with disabilities be provided for and that 430 million dollars are duly included in the draft budget. Ensure that the local general budget fund increases its drinking weight from 40.8% to 43.5% of the total budget fund. This means that more funds will be distributed from the budget at the regional level. Gradually reducing the special fund in the state budget from 22% to 19. Expenditure on government debt management has been allocated from the cost of service and public debt repayment. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that individual proposals need to be prepared in depth and not only for government decisions but also for our legislative settlement with you. In general, with regard to this draft law, we would like to point out that it contains a number of structural measures aimed at improving the functioning of the budget system and improving the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources, such as the introduction of a single order of assignment and the payment of pensions by the pension fund bodies, the harmonization of the system of salaries for public sector employees and enterprises, the streamlining of procedures, the provision of housing for public officials, military officials, members of the military and teaching staff. The lower provisions of the draft law are included in the need to ensure social justice and targetedness in the provision of all kinds of public social assistance, depending on the material condition of the citizen or the family. For the first time, it has been suggested that the privatisation of state property should be included as a source of development costs with a specific focus. The draft budget provides for the unallocated expenditure of 3 billion dollars as a stabilization fund, the cost of which is intended to be directed primarily towards compensation in the event of an increase in energy tariffs. In addition, legislative arrangements are needed to ensure the transparent use of the stability fund’s funds. With the aim of supporting depressed areas for 2007, subsidies from the State Budget have been provided to local budgets to stimulate the development of 100 million dollars. The government's proposal to reduce tax pressure should be welcomed, both through the export-import mechanism and by the state-owned enterprises that need to be updated by the core funds. Thus, the bill provides a number of proposals that we support, in particular, to reduce the rate of deduction of part of the income of economic organizations from 50% to 15th for state-owned enterprises. I think we're now being heard by teams of state-owned enterprises and will support this proposal. Refusal of clearing calculations in the housing sector, lowering the rate of the assembly from the purchase of currency from 1.3 percent to one, leaving over 600 million dollars in the economy for development. By supporting the government's efforts to support energy conservation, we hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will urgently develop a real energy conservation programme. Regarding the government budget deficit, it should be noted that the amount of 15 billion dollars, which is 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, corresponds to European and world standards of this figure, is 3 percent. What's more, these costs are going to be spent on development. Considering that the newly formed government has been able to work on the draft budget for almost a little over a month, it is not possible to resolve all the issues that are currently on the line. Similarly today it is clear that the State Budget Bill is burdened with numerous articles that change tax legislation and other basic laws that regulate social and other non-budgetary issues. But such changes are either constantly repeated in recent years in State Budget laws, or are systemic in nature and have to take effect for one year. This reflects the realities of the present and shows the urgent need to resolve the issues in the basic laws. First of all, we need to adopt the Tax Code and objectively inventory and regulate other legislation that does not provide financial resources year after year. We hope that in the thorough drafting of the bill in the Committee on Budget Affairs we will find realistic reserves to solve the most pressing problems that remain, that you raise and raise during the discussion. For example, regarding customs congregations. The government has proposed that they leave them until Ukraine acquires membership in the WTO. But the corresponding amount of income is not included in the budget. The high standard for renting state utility property on competitive grounds and renting according to its market value, but the forecast for the budget from such a source is not significantly increased. In addition, additional resources can also be found within the budget budget balance by distributing spending to effectively use budget funds to achieve the best possible outcome. While appreciating the inclusion of a list of objects from privatization directly into the budget project for the first time, it is necessary to take a closer look at the realisticity of 10 billion dollars of privatisation money by getting additional information from the State Property Fund on the sale of shares and start-up costs for each of the proposed objects. The bill also needs to re-establish rules for the co-operation of the Committee on Budget Affairs with the government in part of the involvement in dealing with individual issues of the implementation of the State budget. In spite of the increase in local budgets for 2007, as in previous years, the financial situation of the local authorities of the state of authority, particularly the maintenance of local self - government, cultural institutions, and the functioning of the local police, whose maintenance costs are transferred in the following year from the State Budget, remains objectively problematic. It is also controversial and requires an additional legislative settlement of the issue of paying public officials to avoid wage distortions, as has been the case in the last 2 years and other social benefits. This and other issues need to be addressed in further work on the draft budget. Therefore, I would like to ask all members of the people to respond with understanding and to adjust to constructive cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers to provide on a professional basis a review of the drafting of the bill and timely adoption by the Supreme Council by 1 December of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, our task today is not to adopt the draft law in the first reading, but rather to take it up with the Supreme Council for consideration and further elaboration and adoption. As a result of the discussion and in accordance with article 39 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided, by a majority of votes, to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law on the 2007 State Budget. In accordance with article 40, part 1 and part 2, of the Budget Code for the Notes and Proposals of the Committees of the Supreme Council, the MPs, the National Deputies to the Draft Law on the State Budget 2007, I have to be submitted to the Committee on Budget Issues not later than 1 October of this year. All proposals should be balanced and not lead to an increase in government debt compared to the amount foreseen in the draft law. Let us pay attention to the heads of committees, the heads of factions, all the national deputies on the date of October 1, after which the proposals coming to the committee have no rights and no opportunity to consider. I would like to point out that according to the approved Supreme Council Head's schedule for the consideration of the draft Law on the State Budget for 2007, the first reading is due to take place on 20 October. The second reading is November 17th. The third reading and adoption in general is 29 November of this year. Finally, honourable members of the people, I would like to inform you that a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council was held yesterday under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine, which included a draft budget. In his speech, the President of Ukraine called on all political forces, government, parliament, to cooperate with the adoption of the State’s main financial instrument for the following year, which would unite Ukraine and serve the interests of our citizens. We call on all the political forces to support the draft budget for 2007 and let this document, the 2007 draft budget for man, for the economy, for the future, can be called, if you give that consent, a budget university to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a report. Wait, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. The committee head's report draws conclusions on the relevance of this document to the Budget Code, the direction of budgetary policy for the following year and the budget resolution. The report indicates that this document is in line with these directions. Is there a need for clarification? Yes, well, please sign up for clarification. But in these three contexts. Please. Please. Odarchenko, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u40	I have a question for the honorable head. We now listen to and hear a great deal about innovation and the investments that go into our nation's national economy. But when we look at unemployment and population employment, we see that they're not growing at all compared to last year. We see that the share of the income of the country's GDP enterprises, it's not only growing, it's shrinking. What I'm curious about is, why do these innovations, if we don't reduce unemployment, if we don't increase employment and if we don't increase the efficiency of our businesses? When will this bright future come, and when will we have high, these high indicators? I have one more question. We wrote it down. You, there are about 10 billion in the budget project for innovative purposes of agriculture. As you predict the mechanism of the crucifix.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u41	I'm sorry. The question of the bright future is not up to the head of the committee. It does not respond to the requirements of the law of the draft budget for its submission. And relatively there's innovation, please, if you can answer, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u42	As far as innovation and investment are concerned. Indeed, the government put these in the 2007 budget. And our task with you is to make this happen. It can take place only after we have passed this basic law. And from a politically stable situation. If the world sees that we have the President, the government, the Supreme Council, together, there will be confidence in us, and investment will come to us and we will have innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u43	Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u44	Please give the floor to the leader of our militia, Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u45	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, your statement, such a reference in favor of this very short document shows that the position that the government and the head of the budget committee of the same party could not be expected to be objective in this case. And I want to ask you. Why did you keep silent that there was no accounting document for the provision of regional budgets at all? It's never been in the budget. No analytical calculations were made in the regions. And one last question. Please tell me, when you called this budget a budget university, did you mean that you wouldn't do this budget like the Universal you signed?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u46	As for the position I hold, I occupy it in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council, which you and I have voted here. As far as the calculations are concerned. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! It's a budget presentation, it's not the first reading. We got it on September 15th of this month. And we're living people, along with the secretariat, we've been working out what we've been able to do. From this day forward, the budget committee accepts all the comments, suggestions, by October 1. We will work 24 hours a day, and on our first reading, we will be ready to answer that particular question. As far as the budget is concerned. Thank you for liking my expression. We hope that this document will be signed by all political forces, including the BUT faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u47	I ask you not to politicize this question on one side or on the other, because that's how it comes out, what question, and what answer. Let's work on the document. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! I would like to focus on a very important topic, which is the correspondingity of the 2007 State Budget project of the Constitution of Ukraine towards meeting those standards of social protection for Ukrainian citizens. That's the first one. The second. I would like to point out that there is virtually no clear policy in the budget and relatively simplified tax system, and there is virtually no direction or desire for structural transformation in the economy. I'm talking about both aviation issues and the fishing fleet issues and other issues. So I don't think this document can be called a universal economic document, as you say. I think it's a very weak document for the Supreme Council to work with him. He must be sent back to Kabmin to be processed professionally and then given to the national deputies for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, indeed. There are many questions, but we are chosen by our constituents and work in the Supreme Council to bring him to perfection. We invite you to cooperate. From today's number we've created working groups in every direction of this budget, and we're ready to work with you on all your proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u50	Chubarov, last question. Chubarov. Chubarov, I said turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u51	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I can't join your high-level evaluation of the State Budget project next year. You mentioned yesterday's meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. So the first question on this board was the Crimean and Crimean Tatar situation. Four months ago, a program was adopted by the Ukrainian government to resettle and house Crimean Tatars and other nationalities who returned to Ukraine. This program is for five years. According to this program, the following year 82 million were to be planned for this purpose. Money from the State Budget and 26 from the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In that budget you called a universal, I saw 44 million. - Twice as much. By the way, this year's plan is 75 million. That's right. So I'd like to ask you as head of the committee: how can we, if we take a look at it, change the volume twice or three times where it doesn't correspond to the predicted volume?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u52	The committee will invite you to the next meeting. We're ready to consider your suggestions and support the numbers you've proposed. In fact, if there were 82 million dollars in the program, it would have to be done, and we would go to the government and support it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u53	Have a seat, please. We are now scheduled to discuss reports, and the Rules therefore provide for such a sequence: factions, committee representatives, and a national MP. [[especially those who have not made written conclusions on the draft budget]] First, the factions are recorded. Please write down who will be speaking. Please. Further representatives of the committees. On the same list. Yeah, keep going. Please. I'm explaining, well, first the heads or the factions, then the committee representatives, and then the deputies who signed up. Look, you've got it on your monitor. Together. I'm sorry, I'm offering to talk to you for 60 minutes. If the number of committees. Well, we have a number of committees and factions, so that the time is 60 minutes away when everyone wants to make a statement, we can continue the discussion. How much time will you spend together to discuss? An hour of 15 minutes. Enough? Wait a minute! I'll do it again. It's all right, I get it! This is about the fact that the “Council” program provides for two blocks, and the third is not understood. These are the factions and the committees, and then we're going to conduct a record for the MPs. And then let's set time, because beyond the limits provided for in the Rules, 60 minutes can be anticipated for another 15 minutes. Thus, there is no objection to such order. So in general, it's 3:00. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. About the procedure, about the rules of procedure. The year is fifteen. [[11:21:42]] For 318 A decision has been made. Grigorovich, please. It's from the faction. Are you speaking? Jebravski, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to start with a positive view that the government has submitted a budget to the Supreme Council. This budget is called a different budget: the development budget, then transformed into a "social and development budget". But I would call this budget "a budget for my own". And I'm going to try to prove it further, so that you understand. In 2005-2006, the government was criticized for the fact that it was a budget for eating. But he was actually socially oriented. It was to social costs that the main costs were spent. We are told that “we need the game of the economy”. What macro indicators are offered to us is 6.5 percent increase in gross domestic product and 7.5 percent inflation. At the same time, IMF is making more pessimistic forecasts: 2.8 GDP growth and 13.5 inflation. I mean, if the IMF is a pessimist, our government is a huge optimist. Today, there is an emphasis on reducing fiscal pressure. Did it happen? Absolutely not. If we look at it, the only money, the only reduction is 0.3% on cash, and that's it. But if you take a redistribution of the gross domestic product, this year you have 34% of the revenue to the budget, next year is 30. 4%, 600 billion GDP, 24 billion won't go down. So let's say that 700 million goes into what's less going to be removed from state-owned enterprises, 3 billion won't be off-balance sheet housing. Where's 20 billion dollars? And 20 billion dollars in free economic zones is a black hole in the Ukrainian budget, and this is not a game of economics. I would like to emphasize that tax pressure is increasing, so the income tax is going to be 13 to 15%. There's already going to be a 20% increase in pension payments in the village, which is 700 million dollars. I would like to point out that it would be as if they were reducing from 20 to 12% VAT on agriculture, but the financial resource is 2 billion dollars not enough to replace these issues. I stress that today the budget deficit of 15.1 billion dollars will not be covered by privatization costs, and these are already allocated by so-called investment programs. Investment programs will only be in manual mode because they won't even agree with the deputies and the committee. Finally, since time is limited, this Law violates many articles of the budget code. And the first part that we don't have in the budget to adopt different economic laws is that they should be separate laws that regulate relations in the field of economics. I believe that this project and the faction “Our Ukraine” will not consider this project, accept this project for consideration and suggest that it be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u55	The word is Kostenko, from "Julia Timoshenko's Block." Is Tymoshenko speaking? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u56	Julia Timoshenko. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, first of all, I read all the volumes of this budget carefully, and then I asked for a press service, and I looked at all the advertising videos of the Party of Regions that they showed to the country during the elections. And I could say right now, 30% of the people who vote for Yanukovich and his party are just being deceived. Given three minutes of time, which, by the way, is wrong to discuss such a serious document, I'd like to say that, first of all, this budget is not just antisocial, it's a budget for the destruction of every person's social life in Ukraine. I won't be talking long, I'll just say that pensions in this budget aren't expected to go up in principle, with tariffs going up 2-3 times. In addition, I quote an explanatory note signed by Janukovic himself: “The social protection system for the first time in the State Budget project reduces the expenditure of the State budget by 5.3 billion dollars for the Pension Fund.” This is a quote for those who have spoken here. So for the first time in the history of Ukraine, 5.3 billion dollars will not be paid to the Pension Fund. Is that a pensioner genocide? Moreover, for those involved in the fighting and for those like them as well as for those involved in the Great War, all benefits to utilities are eliminated. Is that what we were promised in the commercials? So it was necessary to tell the people of Ukraine. As for the minimum wage, it does not increase, virtually, until July 1. From July 1st to 5%. The tariffs and everything else are 2-3 times. Compare it, please. Why didn't you tell people about it during the election? If you were liberal, you'd go with liberal slogans. I can also tell you that, of course, 8.5,000 dollars at birth are not going to be given to newborn children, because Mikola Janović, an experienced bureaucrat, has predicted so much information that no family will ever be able to provide. Therefore, it is not necessary to deceive people. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the left-hand sector of our Parliament that we have virtually no savings at the expense of privatization. Ten billion are credited to the needs of their own boys in the budget. It's a budget for a colossal shadow economy in the country. And for the liberals of this Parliament, read what it says, 16 taxes in addition you get for a liberal idea. Therefore, there is no time, but I will say that there has never been such a budgetary disgrace in Ukraine. And I am convinced that socialists and Communists will not be able to support this disgrace. We're going to vote and we're going to rule out the worst budget of the worst government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u57	Kaltz, please, Party of Regions. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u58	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. We need to understand that we are not discussing the draft elections, we are not discussing the draft political parties. We are discussing an economic document. That is why I would like us to use economic categories. I wish we could tell each other the truth. At the same time, I would like to support one of the previous speakers, who referred to several positive points. First. The budget is on time. And this was done archivally. Second moment. He said this budget was for his own. If he meant that all 48 million citizens of our country, he told the truth. This budget is for 48 million fellow citizens. At the same time, I want to say, Nikolai Janović, your distinctive feature is modesty, but you have too modest and have not expanded the subject of budget gaps that have reached you. You didn't tell me what kind of economic heritage you were given, and that's exactly where the ashtray formed the budget. I'm a long way from boasting about the budget, because the MP who praises the budget is the MP who makes fun of Kabmina. We are not the Kabmin branch, we are the Supreme Council. And when I see objective, I repeat, objective, not politically designed, things must be harmonized with Kabmin. As Vice-Chairman of the budget committee responsible for the local budgets, I will insist, Nikolay Janović, that a working group be established immediately. There are a lot of issues that need to be addressed, not in a bad way, but in order to build up the entire legislative framework, plan changes, plan changes in the budget code, plan changes in the Tax Code, in a set of local government laws. Only such an integrated approach can produce results. Second, local budgets. The so-called equalization grant is a grant of removal from territories that are constantly operating. We need logic, we need motivation to make the budget an incentive for the Territory. There are no perfect budgets. There are bad budgets, real and tense. This budget is real, tense, but it will be even more intense, Nikolai Janović. We need to prepare, the Supreme Council, the budgetary committee will do everything in its power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u59	Dude, it's a faction of socialists. Bondarchuk comes from the faction, Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u60	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear colleagues, the faction of our party will vote in favour of sending this most important financial document for processing. Although it does have a lot of money to pay attention to. First, we need to look at a little bit about the general ideology of the State Budget project, because it does not take into account our commitments to the voters set out in the pre-election platform of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and not only the SPI. In our view, the government has not worked enough, and it has certainly given rise to a factor of delicacy in the search for budget reserves in some cases, figuratively looking for an ax under the bench. It's been swapping in a trifle, sort of a refusal to pay for the support of future moms. Although the question may be asked, how many future mothers will do so, and how much money will we make? No one could answer. In this context, it is unacceptable to attempt to delegate powers to regulate a number of points relating to the budgetary process and its execution. For example, allowing the government to review it, empowering the government to review the list of objects subject to privatization that are excluded from it. Eliminated by the Supreme Council until funds are used to support depressed regions, the refusal to subsidize the State Budget Pension Fund, which could lead to a break in pension payments. And the elimination, in general, of the possibilities of, as it were, interfering with the Supreme Council in the budgetary process is limited. But we've been through a period of decretification. The consequences of the decrees are known. They affect various aspects of our lives today. Let me remind you that the constitutional system in Ukraine today is the parliamentary-presidential republic. Let us follow the constitutional position or regulations regarding both the Supreme Council and the government and not ignore them. And we also know that our entire economy depends on energy prices, and all the calculations have obviously been made based on the current level of these prices. But we know that Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic's visit to Moscow is expected next week, so we'll probably also have to count these, make some calculations. Secondly, it seems questionable that the support of the village will increase. If 4.1 billion dollars of direct funds were foreseen to support the village last year, nothing can be seen this year. And third. The State Budget project does not show how the resolution on the financial provision for the acceleration of Ukrainian housing and utility reform is being implemented, without which we are not incurred from the tens and hundreds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u61	Ivan Mikolaiovich, you are there regarding the support of the village, please take a look, because we held two meetings on the budget. On the contrary. And Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk spoke about this as a representative of the working group. There are direct subsidies for agriculture. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u62	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Communist faction, determining its position on the draft budget, comes out of the following. First of all, the government is, by decision of the Supreme Council, our coalition, part of our shared responsibility with you. So it's suggested that in this case, in determining the ratio to the budget, we came out of the way that the government would set priorities today, and what would be the direction of priority. That is why we, the Communist faction, have already prepared specific proposals for the articles and will submit them to the Committee on Budgets. This will primarily be based, scientifically based, and based on the need to develop an agri-industrial complex, industrial policy, support for the coal industry, that's also proposals for the implementation and implementation of the law on children of war, support for the poor today or the ranks of our population. That is, everything that today concerns the protection of the interests of our citizens through the budget. Clearly, the Communist faction will never support the limitations of our citizens' rights and freedoms, including those laid down in article 76. Not the privileged categories of our citizens, the civil servants, but the ordinary citizens, the laborers, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the disabled, the women, the children, the categories that are urgently in need of social protection today. I could give many other examples. But once again, I want to state that the final faction of Communists will determine whether or not to support this draft law after we, when we prepare for the first reading, consider and see that the government will consider what it does not take into account. Today, the Supreme Council is responsible for the government’s activities and should, along with the government, feed, prepare this project. What I would like to pay extra attention to. First of all, I don't think the government has been able to analyse the full depth of economic crises and very dangerous trends that have been established by all previous governments, especially those that have deteriorated since the orange governments. We need to understand today that mechanisms called market reforms have led to changes in the principle of the formation of financial resources. It's basically a broken base for the income generation of the budget of all levels of production. What does Ukraine today produce besides metal and chemical production? Whole areas of machine building, printing, light industry, furniture, and much more have been destroyed. So when we see it in the internal market, we're going to answer that Ukraine is not investing itself today, it's investing in a foreign producer. So this is exactly what we, Communists, are proposing when I say that, first of all, we need to combine the planned indicators that we should achieve with the private business. You have to use state monopolies today. We're against wrong practices when citizens' rights are restricted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u63	Thank you. The committees and deputies will be speaking. From the Science Committee, I understand, Catherine Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u64	I want to draw the first impression from the documents that we are discussing today. We should not forget that the budget is not only a financial instrument but also a political instrument, but perhaps a political component. And this requires looking at it not only through the financial calculator but also through the eyes of the educated and all those involved in the educational process of the students, students, parents, and scientists. In particular, a specific political decision in article 116 concerning the limitation of the pension of workers. The financier's point of view is the economy of money. But 2/3 of the heads of colleges and departments and laboratories in the scientific institutions of retirement age. The problem of rejuvenation of science and education is facing all countries. The offer of a decent scientific pension is important, but where incentives for young people to get involved are important. Regrettably, the funding of appropriate youth programs has been either reduced or unchanged. Even the only more serious programs of support for young scientists through a foundational research fund have been fuelling small-scale funding for several years. So you can count the possible negative decisions here. I think we should be very smart about this. The declared integration must be reinforced to Europe by concrete steps. The slogan of increasing participation in international scientific and technical cooperation coincided with the fact that the draft budget reduced twice the corresponding article of the Ministry of Education and Science. Well, of course, how can I agree with all of this? The same is true of science. This year, the Act on the Priorities of Science and Technology ends, a set of relevant state programmes. And there's no bill, no software upgrades. What does science not continue to develop? Support is needed. Yesterday, on the committee, the academics of Wozyanov presented us with a task: The Medical Academy has two projects: oncology and genetics of a breakthrough level. It's about cardiovascular disease, and that's what the academic Knishew was talking about. So if we finance, in the coming years, we're going to take the top positions in the world. So we need to work in detail on a list of such strategic breakthroughs in order to look good. Today, in the Facts newspaper, I read: “Vladimir Klitschko will hand over 250,000. The Commission notes that the Commission considers that the State party is not in a position to ensure that the State party is able to provide the necessary information to the State party. It's at a time when we don't have tens of thousands of children in school, tens of thousands homeless. I mean, like Bulgakov said, a riot in my head. As long as she's in her head, there's not really gonna be any sense in our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u65	I ask the heads of committees or committee representatives to make their proposal for acceptance or rejection of the draft budget, because we will have to be determined. So I ask you to call the committee's position immediately, and you can express your own, and your own position. Please, Kirilczuk, are you speaking from the committee? What's that? Wait, what committee are you on? I mean. That's how the budget was made by MacKeenko. Please sign up after you have elected. Hunger, please. You'll speak after the committee. McKeenko was speaking. Right, from the committee, that's his business. Please. Please, the Hunger of the Agrarian Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u66	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! In my statement within the Rules, I would like to focus on the main issues of the development of the agri-industrial complex. I would like to inform you that a working group, led by Alexander Alexander Moroz and Mikola Janović Azarov, with the participation of national deputies and government officials, has been set up to consider the budgeting, the financing of the agro-industry complex. To tell you the truth, the work has been fruitful and it can now be said that the financing of the agro-industry complex is now slightly better structured, more focused on supporting the implementation of modern market tools, and the main thing is that the ideologies of financing and the so-called tax financing or the dissipation of the budget are changing to a specific subsidy from the producer. I want to remind you that, for example, one third more is allocated from the village funding budget. Because specifically, for example, 2.5 times the cost of bank resources, five times the cost of insurance, and four times the cost of technology. Yet, I would like to stop today, my dear colleagues, at a disadvantage. When determining the amount of budget support for the agricultural sector in 2007, there was no account of an end to the debt regime since 1 January 2007, which cost almost 4 billion dollars to the agricultural sector. We don't take into account the price distortions that today are and are increasing resources for technology, for energy, for other things. It's time-consuming. ignored time requirements are needed to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinebuilding. By the way, there's only one and a half million when there's a need, one and a half billion. Despite the requirements of the Ukrainian Tax Scheme Act, the Ukrainian Land Pay Act and the Ukrainian Land Rental Act have been suspended on the purposeful use of payments. I want to remind the government, Mikola Janović, that there is virtually no solution to the question of budgetary financing for the social development of the village. And we demand at least one billion. It's a debt of 800 million, and 200 million for the capitalization and development of the social sphere. Based on the country's socio-economic situation, according to the committee, given that the situation in rural finance is improving today, there is no reason to deny its acceptance. But I'd like the government to put at least 11 billion dollars into the budget, and we're offering specific funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u67	Thank you for being so concise. Bronnick, you're on the committee, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I think we cannot help but welcome the desire that exists now, I think, in the hall and in the government that we have appointed, is to learn to live strictly by means rather than to live according to desire. And the attempt to do so in 2007, despite all the problems of this year and, above all, the energy budget, it cannot fail to be encouraged. But I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the following. Inescapable increase in tariffs. We live in a large world, rising gas prices, and it is inevitably objective on energy carriers. But it is necessary to introduce a system of social tariffs quickly before raising. Yesterday, the Committee welcomed the statement by the National Regulatory Commission that they were working on social tariffs. So first, we need to introduce a system of social tariffs, and then we need to start raising tariffs to balance the economy, to balance energy consumption. And question number two: The government has accepted what it has accepted. He also adopted the energy strategy of Ukraine. Ukraine's energy strategy includes 40 billion investments in energy and energy conservation. While creating an investment climate, with unpopular solutions, the budget should provide for such a system when we have energy savings. However, this budget does not contain this, and we do not know at all when a financial system will be established that will allow us to see for sure the future, both for our population and for our economy. The 400 million that are expected to give energy to energy savings is one hundred per cent of Ukraine's needs. Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovic, in his statement to Parliament at the opening of the session, began with energy from worn-out energy. We must understand that the pits must not cross the end; we must not cross the line when we are once again reintroduced into the international situation by the economic gas and our own state into the energy cold when we have survived. Therefore, the Committee will prepare all the proposals, I hope that, together with the Committee on Budgets and the Government, we will finally consider all the issues of providing everyone with the energy they need for their lives, the energy economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u69	Baranovsky gives the word to Matviyenko from the Committee on Economic Policy. Behind him is Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u70	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I will tell you immediately that the Committee on Industrial Policy has not considered this budget, so I will express my own opinion, although it is very much the same as that of the members of the Committee. You know, honestly, when I was reading the budget, I had this de-javo condition. We've been through this before, these are the programmes that we have to fund from the budget to date. More than 200 of them, government programs. Name at least one that has been implemented from "a" to "me". We're going to raise money by 5, by 7 per cent of each of them, and once again, like water in the sand, that money will go away, and we're not going to do any of them again, once again, the mechanism for financing coal growth is $5 billion, which, to say the least, is not coming to an end, back to supporting a village that is not coming to the producer, and many, many other moments. Now, with regard to the budget itself. We would very much like, I mean, industry, to know one thing: at what price are we going to build our policies next year? Is that going to be $130, what is promised and budgeted today, whether it's $200, which is roughly theoretically coming out -- what are we going to have, or how are we going to build this policy, through which we're going to take this gas, through Rossukr or through the SP? It's important, so to speak, for producers. Again, we don't have a clear VAT system, we start playing with that tax again, again the same system that we have. Played zero VAT for energy carriers, washed, so to speak, VAT, now back to VAT on gas, again input, so to speak, a bill for determining officials. By what kind of goods will the entry bill be used, and by what means can it not be used? Amortonumbers. We have spoken on this subject on many occasions. At 80-90 per cent of the equipment, 10 per cent of the depreciation was low. It wasn't much. We cannot restore our equipment, we cannot make it competitive. Today we go even further: 10 per cent for renovated facilities. It's a huge blow to the manufacturer. How are we going to restore our facilities? Rental of State property. We are very excited, Nikolai Janović, this is the system that is enshrined in the law. It recalls the system of conversion: what is the nature of the review of the leases that have been entered into prior to two months? What does that mean, those owners who for 2 years leased government equipment just to move and hand it over to someone? So we need to look very closely here. Privatization. It was highly desirable that this line, when the Cabinet of Ministers could change the list of enterprises to be privatized, should we not ignore the Privatization Act and the very work of the State Property Fund. Increased prices for water use, increased payments for water use 2.4 times. The South-East of Ukraine is suffering from this case – there is no water. We pay for the use of inefficient water, inefficient water, plus 2.4 more times for the use of this whole case. Payment system or rent for the production of own gas. Good thing they put their own gas in for utility payments. However, we could reduce the rent at the cost of dealing with these issues in order to stimulate the production of our own gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Zybenko. Behind him is Miroshnichenko. If it's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u72	Peter Cibenko, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons Dear colleagues, an official budget decision will be taken by the committee at its meeting on September 26. Yesterday, we had a preliminary, cross-examination of individual problems. But I have to put it this way. First of all, I'd like to support the innovative model of the State Budget project. Among other things, this shows that the government is at least trying to think not only about today but also about tomorrow. The other thing is that even this, very important thing, cannot be done by cutting or undergrowthing social programs. This approach is considered unacceptable. What are some comments to the committee project that we do not agree with? On another occasion, the State Budget Bill reorts the Ukrainian legislative field, and then they do not collide with each other. The committee does not have the pace of increasing the subsistence minimum for the different types of population and especially for the non-working population, because this rate, because the basis of this subsistence minimum for the unemployed, is also the increase in pensions for the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine. The increase in labour pensions by 15-20 dollars, especially when prices and tariffs go down, is certainly not what can protect our most disadvantaged citizens. The committee cannot agree that there is a limitation on the size of pensions for working pensioners. The point is that this category of Ukrainian citizens believes that they are discriminated against in this way, and at least they have good reason. Another point that I'd like to stress in particular. The committee cannot agree that for the following year, the basic pension is paid on the basis of the law on social protection of Ukrainian citizens, not for all children of war, but only for children of war with disabilities. Of course, this limits the possibilities, limited to the capacity of the State budget, but that still does not justify the situation. I would like to stress once again that the committee will take a more scrupulous look at all the problems envisaged in the State Budget Act and the official decision it will make after September 26. But I would like to stress once again that we will look very carefully at these issues, which will address the problems of social protection of Ukrainian citizens, primarily the most disadvantaged categories of our citizens: pensioners, veterans, disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Miroshenko. What committee? For justice's sake. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u74	Honorary colleagues, honourable voters, distinguished representatives of the government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice has twice reviewed the state of funding the judicial system in Ukraine. We thoroughly analyzed, and yesterday at our committee meeting there were representatives of the judiciary, from the Supreme Court there were representatives from the High Council of Justice, from the Higher Qualifications Commission. We analyzed, developed, watched. And as a conclusion, I can say the following. Funding is not enough. Our committee will prepare appropriate proposals for the 2007 budget in order to address the shortcomings that exist in the current funding system and in the one proposed in the 2007 budget. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Government in and personally of Mikola Janović to the fact that the judiciary is concerned that the draft budget does not provide for the implementation of 43 and 44 articles of the Law on the Status of Judges, which deals with the payment of out-of-service aid, the determination of the amount of monthly life support, etc. And as we were told by our committee head, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, that a meeting had taken place yesterday with the Prime Minister and the judges, and he was head of the committee, and the Prime Minister said accordingly that this inadequacy would be removed. We very much hope that this will be the case. Now I'd like to express my point of view on what's going on. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the stage of the budgetary process that we are currently experiencing. And here I would like to support the Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Moroz, because we are now taking the budget into consideration. And we have no right not to accept it if it fits the formal signs. First, a document prepared in accordance with the Budget Code, in accordance with the budget resolution, and it is submitted in time. We have no right to reject these signs. Little is it, your honorary colleagues, who have now rejected this document, that we are depriving ourselves of the ability to work and improve it. And if we're now taking it into consideration, all of our proposals can be taken into account before the first reading, and here is the opportunity to cooperate both with opposition and with the factions of the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u75	Which committee is that? Wait a minute. Wait, don't rush. It will be easy to speak from the Standing Committee after a break. Thank you. Breaks are announced until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u76	Let's keep this meeting going. Discussion of the 2007 State Budget Project The judge is good, but we can't interrupt the debate. Let's finish the budget and get to the judges. Please note, Oleg Lazko of the Committee on Rules of Procedure. Next Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u77	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Here are the main elements of the state budget project that you need to know. The 16 articles of the draft State Budget for this year envision an increase in tax pressure on entrepreneurs. Ukraine’s government debt will increase by more than 5 billion in one year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of With the return of free economic zones, the loss of the state budget in 2007 will amount to about 7 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The planned threefold increase in imports of petroleum products will lead to an inevitable rise in gas prices and diesel fuel. In 2007, only 7.9 percent of wages were planned to increase. While utility payments go up two or three times. In the following year, the government plans to reduce pensions for pensioners who are still working. The law on the social protection of children of war has been suspended – a 30 per cent increase in pensions. The benefits of community services are being commuted to those involved in the fighting and to those like them, to those with disabilities, and to those involved in the war. In fact, article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act has been eliminated – a 4-fold reduction in the amount of debt owed to education workers. Instead, an increase of 46.9 percent compared to 2006 is proposed for the services of the Cabinet of Ministers. And for the Treasury Department of the Cabinet of Ministers, there's just a record-breaking increase in expenditure -- 120 percent compared to today's! It's for housing, food, jets for government officials and stuff. At the same time, the 2007 draft budget proposes a substantial reduction in the maintenance costs of the Supreme Council. This could be welcomed if the government offered to cut spending on financing social protection programs for national MPs, so - called benefits. However, the government is proposing to reduce the funding of the Supreme Council's legislative activities, which will have a negative impact on Parliament's work and lead to a deepening of corruption among the MPs. The most recent draft budget proposes to amend or suspend the eighty - nine provisions of other laws, which are prohibited under article 22 of the Constitution and the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. In this connection, the draft State Budget is proposed for the following year, which we are considering today, rejecting and rescheduling in the legal term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u78	By which committee? I don't see him at all. Odarchenko gives Tomenka a word. He's behind him, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u79	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism Dear colleagues! I'd like to inform you about the decisions of our committee in the editing and changes that have to do with the direction that our committee is working on. The first extremely important problem concerns the youth lending program. And we're worried about the situation that the seriously reduced cost of implementing this project has been reduced to 30 million dollars, which actually means that if this figure is not reviewed, this program is going to go down all the more so that the amount of money paid to compensate for the interest payments is not enough to at least cover the percentages of those young families that took credit for the following year. So we made clear proposals, I think the government will take that into account. The second problem is the activity of health - care sports facilities. Today, the situation seems to be as follows. In fact, every year these facilities are being closed and one of the means of saving them is to implement the previous budgets and, in fact, the rules of the law on paying land to these sports establishments are differentiated, and they have not paid as trade points or restaurants, and when a sports establishment is used as a target, the local authorities must respond accordingly. That's why we made that offer. The third position is to organise taxation for the provision of tourist and sanitary services. This is also a principle position, because we continue to stimulate indirectly the companies that export our people to Egypt or Turkey, and we continue to exert economic pressure on the sanatorium, resorts, and tourism that is located in Ukraine. A very important topic that we would like the government to respond to is, in fact, the distribution of funding in the area of physical education and sports. We believe that high-tech sports or professional sports should be financed by the National Olympic Committee, and we have made such an offer. As for mass sports, physical education, let it be financed through the Ministry of Youth, Family, and Sports. A series of other suggestions came from our committee as well. Finally, as a national deputy, I would like to say that I was concerned about the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday because there were many rules that conflict with the ideologies of the budget: for example, in the budget, pension benefits are declining, and there are 70 percent of pensions for ministers. We're talking about the withdrawal of preferences, and the Cabinet of Ministers Act stipulates that the Prime Minister will have a status of inviolability that is contrary to the Constitution. So I'd like us to be here in all the government documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u80	Yes, Oleg Belarus. I don't see any potatoes from the Foreign Affairs Committee. The next one's going to pass it on to Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I am authorized by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to report to you on the situation of external political and external economic financing. At a special meeting yesterday, our committee sent out the draft budget in detail under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The committee noted that Ukraine is at a special stage in the development of its international relations when neither the system nor the structure of communications nor the level of efficiency can satisfy anyone when we do not yet have a long - term strategy, an external political, external economic activity, when we do not yet have the appropriate doctrines of economic, energy, security diplomacy. It was also pointed out that, if foreign policy served domestic policy in the 20th century, foreign policy would be fundamental in the globalized world of the 21st century, and could have a definite impact on internal and domestic development, and that is why every state invests a great deal of money in the development of the diplomatic system. From this point of view, the draft budget presented does not withstand any criticism. The world’s leading nations are investing in external and external economic activity of 3-4 percent of the budget’s income. We only have less than half a percent. Moreover, for 2007 there is a real reduction in budget allocations for these tasks. Moreover, we cannot help but worry that the real, open and hidden deficit of the budget is more than 27 billion dollars, not 15, though 15 are many. And that's why we've decided to address our proposals, to submit to the budget committee, based on specific proposals. The committee requires that the budget for the next year for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be increased by 75 million dollars, or by about 10 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Hara's speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, well, it must be understood that no other draft budget has been a source of excitement in this room. I'm the third caller, and they were all first rated, like, three letters tops. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour is only considering the draft budget at its meeting today, but some conclusions can be drawn today. For obvious reasons, the current Cabinet of Ministers did not have much time for normal, peaceful work on the project. Second: the economic base for budgeting is more than lax. A colossal deficit in the current budget, quickly “slow down” “Crivorostal” and switched to a hungry ration. Seven billion pension deficits, which the opposition is so pleased about, have already led to delays in the payment of pensions. The price of gas, electricity and so forth in previous cabinets of ministers has also been a very difficult basis for addressing budgetary problems. And you can weep endlessly on such matters. Nevertheless, the basis of the draft budget is the country's development measures. The project contains a lot of money that will bring Ukraine out of the rubble of failures that have haunted us in recent years. But the positive results on many positions cannot be shown immediately – it takes time. But there are in the project, especially in the social part, mildly doubtful situations. Personally, I have the impression that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenyak's innovation remains in the project. He had already put much into practice working in the outgoing Cabinet of Ministers, and his legacy had moved into the 2007 draft budget. Our committee will not tolerate the continuation of this money in the 2007 budget, namely, interference with social insurance funds. In general, if we, the Supreme Council, are civilized, we need to understand that social insurance funds are self-governing funds based on the management of the three parties, a social partnership. We violate the laws, we violate the ideology of this administration. The most famous birth aid, let's say, after the last years we've been crying about, 700 million people took into the Social Insurance Fund in the budget, promised to return almost 150 million from the budget -- never came back. And the desire to continue this practice with the current Cabinet of Ministers. Or they just didn't read that line. Second, the insured hired health worker in the sanatorium is deprived of his/her health care. The Pinzenyka Government has already cancelled free travel for the poor, and the current project proposes: concessional travel is 10 per cent, think of giving people whose wages are less than the subsistence minimum, which is 121 bracelets. What wise person could write such a measure? Or hospital, 30 days limit, or the level of social assistance, not the standard of living as required, but the right to a tax benefit, i.e. not 505 bracelets, but 200, or a land tax for children's health camps, etc. It's all bad, but we'll fix it. The project's resource is good, and we need to use it. The mover's overpowering, I suggest we move.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u84	The Councilman is passing on to Sivulski, please, from the Committee on European Integration. Sivolski Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u85	The honourable head, the distinguished people's deputies, yesterday our committee considered this issue and considered it from the positions provided for in the Codex Budgets. Should we accept this document, or should we reject it? In discussing this issue, we came to the conclusion that there were representatives of all the political forces who needed to reject it. Why? First, if we look at article 38, it provides that a number of documents are presented in addition to the draft budget. And it turned out that there was no group of documents. And it's not about formal things, it's about respectable colleagues. No documents are provided under “g”, part one. Point one. What is it? This is all that determines the relationship between the state budget and the local budget. And there's a lot of questions here. Because if we increase the cost of local budgets by 28% when we raise the Wage Fund by 19, how can that be? Are we re-inflating air into local budgets? And you can't verify these numbers because they didn't file the documents. So this thing is completely off the record, it deprives us of the ability of the national MPs to check the budget and work on it. The next moment is not as formal as it is significant. A number of provisions of the draft Law contradict the Constitution. There have been a lot of predecessors here, and they've been paying attention to what is the 22nd article of the Constitution, which requires the Cabinet of Ministers to act within the limits defined by law and the Constitution. The budget code does not provide for the introduction of a social welfare bill. Well, why do this one more time, because the 2003 and 2004 budget lesson didn't do us any good? The Constitutional Court has already lifted restrictions on benefits for citizens introduced by the Budget Act. Why are we on this rake one more time? You can't limit these benefits. And most importantly, in this budget, we don't use the moments that our legislation allows us to do. With this kind of pressure, we don't take advantage of the opportunities that law gives us, we don't anticipate spending on cross-border cooperation. Under the law, if we invest 10 million there, the European Union will give us 10 million euros for the development of border areas. This is an important source that just falls into the hands. It is only to be taken by means of appropriate national wisdom. This budget, dear colleagues, can be described as a budget for rising poverty. This is not the way to Europe. The share of the poor in Ukraine increases by 7% to 68% under European standards. This budget needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u86	What committee are you speaking from? Wait. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u87	Turn off the microphone, please. There was a report from this committee. Please take your seats. Please, have a seat. Baby, what committee are you from? It's already been from. Has anyone done any banking work? Grigorovich, please. I beg of you, distinguished national MPs. Please. Once again, from social policy, the head of the committee spoke. Please. I'm asking you again. Hara was just speaking from the committee Vassil Georgievicz. What's with the party line? I'm calling who signed up, and he's talking about which committee. Please, have a seat. You'll sign up from the deputies and act as an MP. Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u88	Lilia Grigorovich, first deputy to the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, a respected Ukrainian community. The Health, Motherhood, and Childhood Committee carefully considered the draft budget and would like to highlight the following points. The 2007 draft budget proposes to allocate 3.4 percent of GDP to the medical sector. I remind you that at least 5 percent of GDP is considered a norm that does not lead to stagnation in the health sector in Europe. At the same time, I'm saying it's 0.1 percent more GDP than it was in the previous year. In the current year, it's 3.3 percent of GDP. At the same time, I would like to highlight another positive that indicates that per capita will be allocated to the next year's budget of 427 dollars against the 356 dollars that took place this year. And that's justified. There's a rise in energy, there's a rise in prices. And that figure obviously has to be raised. Another positive thing for us is the fact that the draft budget provides 20 million dollars to the Ministry of Health on the basis of a repayable loan for the implementation of a mandatory national health insurance policy. But on this positive note, I have to move on to those who are clearly concerned about 1 million medical people in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, many years in a row, the allocation of insufficient funds and the inefficient use of these funds have had consequences. Nevertheless, we are now witnessing an extremely great injustice, a imbalance involving medical workers. See for yourself, the average wage of 1200 dollars in the industry, in the economic sphere -- over a thousand dollars, in education -- almost 900 dollars, in the health system -- 690 dollars. And all the allowances, the only tariff grid that even started today in paying for the work of education workers, are unfortunately not available in the health system. Therefore, the Health Committee offers medical programs that I will not count here, as well as an increase in the wages of health workers according to the education staff, to allocate an additional 6.1 billion dollars. And we think that the failure of these figures, and we're adding them to the budget committee, gives us reason to suggest that we return the budget for the first time again. And literally the last of itself. We'll judge later on what the budget is, which government, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm just saying, Lilia Stepanovna, I mean, we don't deal with the first reading. Your offer for the first time again. We are discussing the adoption of this budget of the Supreme Council, either by default or by rejection. Those who signed up from committees and factions spoke. We have exactly 17 minutes in the Rules. Wait a minute, sign up for the individual performances, and then you'll get caught and you'll be performing. Well, please. I ask you again, please sign in, because I can't give it to you, I don't have any records on my monitor. Please. Sign up for the performance. Yavorowski. There is no Yavorowski. An oil man. I can't see. There's an oil man, please. An oil man. Yavorowski has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski is the head of the Committee on Culture and I speak on behalf of the Committee. That's why it's beyond politics. It's only about very specific things. I would like to refer to a key phrase by Polish Jerzy Lez, who said “the hand in which the alms are squeezed can no longer fall into the fist.” And the second phrase, “even from a dream you can boil a brew if you add sugar and cherry to it.” It's easy for me to talk about the cultural segment in our budget because this segment is actually not in the budget. The Ministry of Culture, the executive branch, simply copied under a copy from the Mesozoic era all those cultural expenses that exist. I'm very pleased to say that we have an agreement with Mikla Janović on the presentation, when he presented to the committee's heads a budget on what the committee is allowed, entrusted in fact, to review the entire budget, to modernize it, to throw out those nests that just put these pitiful costs on different things that actually have no bearing on culture. We'll do it, Mikola Janovich. We formed a working group that includes the Minister of Culture, representatives of our committee, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. We're going to review and say again, we're going to throw all those rudiments out of God's time. But I want to remind you that Kabmin, his management department, and I repeat that every ministry still has its own human resources budget, is allocated 1.8 billion dollars in salary. It's actually management. I want to say that the Secretariat of our President is basically the auxiliary services that are also 1.8 billion. highlighted. The Supreme Council is, you know, 0.6 billion. To culture! Once again, the President's Secretariat is 1.8. A total of 0.8 billion is allocated to Ukrainian culture. Everything. This is the budget, Mikola Janovich, Serbia, which is smaller than Ukraine, about 15-16 times everything. Because of not being loud, I want to say immediately, because there will be a question: “You want to add to the culture, tell me where to get it.” So I want to say, well, I'm not talking about the fact that they forgot to insert the committee from the Chewchenk prizes, but I'm not talking about what they forgot to put in "Arsenal," about what they forgot to put in the famine monument, but we'll do it necessarily. And back us up. That's why I think you should look at the maintenance of forests and hunting farms in the Cabinet of Ministers -- 2.8 million. In the same way, in order to maintain the terms of the President's Secretariat, there are about 3 million. We'll give you specific suggestions from where to take it. And I'm convinced that we're going to improve this cultural segment a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u91	Vitenko. Please, Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u92	The committee, honourable colleagues, had previously considered the budget but had not yet made a decision. That's why I'm acting on my own. And I want to make these comments to the budget. First. The tariff policy that matters. As a committee on housing and utilities. Subsidies for the population of Ukraine amount to 1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the In our calculations, at this rate, it's 8.5 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the In addition, subsidies are needed for the population. Otherwise, it will simply be a lie to our people. That's the first remark. Second remark. We'll talk like I'm a professional, builder, satisfied with the amounts that are now being allocated to the development of programs and the preservation of cultural monuments and other building programs. But there is no serious mechanism for how the functions of the Ministry of Defence and other ministries will be passed on to Minbud so that they will be carried out. This mechanism should be either designed by Minbud, the honourable Mr. Fish, or designed and budgeted. Following comments on the budget. There's no mechanism in the budget as we create new tariffs on residential services. Because now the tariff-making medicine is gone, it's based on the costs that are now and there's no incentive for housing and utility enterprises and enterprises that are sources of heat and water to stimulate them to save energy and other things, though they are, but we haven't built them, there's no decryption to do so, and we don't know if the methods of spending these tariffs will be changed, and we can reduce them. These are the main comments of the committee. Today we are considering this issue, and our decision will finally be made early next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u93	Right. Portnow is speaking instead of Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u94	Andrew Portnow, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The 2007 National Budget project of Ukraine has continued the practice of chronic underfunding of judicial authorities. The budgetary demands of the chief administrators of the budget of the judicial system were not found to be taken into account. And the reason is not that there is a lack of financial resources. For 2007, the Government budget is projected to increase by 11.8 billion dollars, 9.4 percent relative to 2006. In the meantime, the costs of maintaining judicial authority were increased by only zero to four hundred billion dollars, or 2.2 percent. According to the National Court of Justice of Ukraine, the current expenditure of the courts of general jurisdiction is projected to be only 61 percent. An additional 1.1 billion is needed. That's right. Even a salary of 280 million is not paid. That's right. Social benefits of $27 million That's right. The direct implementation of justice is 170 million. That's right. These include the purchase of office equipment, robes, and court signs, transportation expenses, current repairs, and court equipment, communications, and court facilities. And development costs are practically not planned to be financed at all. The State Budget 2007 project does not provide for the establishment of a system of administrative courts that should have functioned since September 2006: financing of judicial authority at the expense of a special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, in particular revenue from the judicial assembly, as provided for by the concept of improving the judiciary, for the full establishment of a court hearing by sound recording technical means, as required by the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Procedure, for the purpose of computerization in courts with the aim of ensuring the transition to electronic management. Applying all court decisions to the Single State Register of Judgments, as provided for by law. And this is already about the quality and transparency of justice, the access of citizens to judicial decisions, the unity of judicial practice. The budgetary request of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is only accounted for by 38.7 percent. In particular, additional costs are needed for salary, monthly maintenance, out-of-service payments, housing and reconstruction of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s house – more than 30 million. That's right. In addition, the State Budget project is expected to halt a number of social benefits for judges for 2007, including the payment of out-of-service assistance to judges who have retired, permanent maintenance and so forth. Thus, it can be observed today that there is virtually no political will in the State to form a truly independent judicial branch of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u95	The word for Jaroslav Kendzior is given to Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u96	Alexander Bondar, the Sobor Group, the "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! I'll only touch on the aspects of the income from privatization. Nine billion dollars is planned for this year. This is because this year there are 180 million, which is 8.7 percent. What is the reality of this indicator if the situation today is so. There's another situation with dividends. 2005 – 1.7 billion were executed, 2006 – 450, and 2007 – 250. There are dividends in these years that are not planned to be sold. So dividends stay in business, and that's also a question that needs to be determined. Implementation of the assets of the Armed Forces. 760 million rely on the State Property Fund. The task he's been doing this year is also very problematic. Lists of objects that are available for this standard. Yes, there are 470 objects, but as a professional with many years of experience in privatization, I know that these are all insolvent things that for years cannot be sold by the Ukrainian State Property Fund and even 4 billion that will not be done by the nominal. So the Cabinet of Ministers is planning to sell other 10 billion items, but this needs to be shared with the deputies and listed. With regard to objects that are being removed for privatization. I think under 10 billion you could eliminate something more important than the polygraph industry and the state printery, which will not produce any substantial revenue, but will cause a very large socio-political resonance. Now the article mentioned above is about reshaping everyone. Imagine all the leases in Ukraine in two months, except for the budget. How will the Cabinet of Ministers try to implement this rule if there is not even a figure on the number of leases entered into on 1 January 2007? This standard is totally unrealistic, it will indignant the renters and the main thing is that most of these objects will be tried in court because it would contradict the Civil Code. You can list a lot more questions about rent, privatization and dividends, and I don't think MPs are going to be able to work out those standards at all times. They can only be worked as the Cabinet of Ministers. So I think that this draft budget should be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. The MPs can't handle this on their own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u97	Volga, you'll be performing. Belarus has already performed. Calchenka, please. Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the honorable government of Ukraine! The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and Population Protection from the Chernobyl disaster carefully reviewed the 2007 budget. And what we want to say right now is that, apart from the fact that there are a lot of laws being broken here, even the budget resolution that we've already adopted here in the session room is not being implemented. This is the first question of the health care system of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, this is about rehabilitation of polluted areas and so on. In particular, I would like to say that national programmes relating to the protection of the population and people are not being implemented at all. I want to talk to you, Andrew Petrovich. Andrew Petrovich, I want to see you. You came back from a terrible tragedy yesterday. I've been to them myself many times. You are the head of the Commission on Emergency Situations, the environmental protection of our entire nation. Look, you haven’t had any weight left in your budget so that you can make the right decisions, as it has been in the last five years. The information-analyst system, like in poor times itself, was created and developed, the government system, planned for only one million. I want to remind everyone that we have 16,000 potentially dangerous objects, of which we can only react to 1.5 today. We're not meant to save people with you. We're just going to keep them safe if we don't make a major change. And another thought here was, look, Ukraine has decided that 5 million euros should be allocated to the Nuclear Security Fund. I met with the Development and Reconstruction Bank, and today they promise to put more than a hundred million euros under the SWITZ. [[nuclear fuel storage]] We're doing two things that we don't understand today. I think we're going to embarrass Ukraine that we can't solve this kind of money. And secondly, it's ridiculous that we're giving up the money we have to have. I mean, there are dozens more problems: the chemical weapons that lie in the waters of Sevastopol, we don't do anything at all. On another issue, I would ask you to turn around, frankly, that this law is a violation of the people of Ukraine, who must be saved from a potentially dangerous threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u99	Is there a sushi guy? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, you know, I would like to pay attention to, unfortunately, the sad tradition of all of the previous State Budget Laws, but which were then released from these traditions. With regard to what is affecting pauses, or changes in the social laws that are now in force in Ukraine. And in this version, and in these sad traditions, the absolutely exclusive negative moment, is 40 articles of the State Budget project, which, you know, is unprecedented in terms of the social legislation of Ukraine. It determines that the order of benefits, compensations, guarantees, including state social guarantees, social assistance, assistance to families with children and other social benefits, I stress, all the absolute possibilities of social support in Ukraine, and the determination of their size, I stress again, standards are direct action, they will also be regulated and set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine next year. Practically, this solves the question, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to fully, in fact, social legislation in all articles of Ukrainian law, which are of a social nature, to change as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, there can be no such thing in the State Budget Act, even in that version of traditions that were sometimes linked when certain articles of social law were suspended. Here comes the globalization of issues related to regulation of the social laws of all, I stress, social laws related to the size of social assistance, social guarantees and benefits, compensation, and so forth. I believe that this article should certainly be deleted. We can't turn to another very important point where I've now been approached by many social organizations of people with disabilities, rehabilitation centers, sanatoriums and so on: no government, no call from the Supreme Council has been made to eliminate tax benefits in relation to enterprises of social organizations of persons with disabilities, and so on. Regrettably, the State Budget project describes the practical elimination of land - based benefits. It is passed on, the land benefits decision is passed on to local budgets. Taking into account the situation that was discussed today at the meeting of the Supreme Council, which, in practice, today is not a mechanism for the formation of local budgets, and the adequacy of their size is due to issues related to the financing of local problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u101	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Mikola Janović, final word, please. The reporter does. I'd like to ask the deputies, when representatives of the Cabinet come here, not to create an opportunity for reception. So that a government representative can listen to what is going on in the session room. That's what I'm saying in advance. Because then it makes no sense to invite people here. That's a man sitting there, he's got a lot of problems, he's come to report to the Supreme Council, or to listen to an opinion, and his ears are putting it in his ears right now, and that's not enough money in that object, so we have to decide -- and he doesn't know what he came here for. Do not approach the government, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, when they listen to questions about the Cabinet of Ministers. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. To date, there is one Minister of Finance in Ukraine, from today to 450 Ministers of Finance. Because the draft State Budget Act is being submitted for your consideration. Each of the people's deputies may submit proposals and amend those proposals, modify the positions of the State budget. [[Minister of Finance]] However, I would like to recall that once we have accepted this budget definitively, there will still be one finance minister in the country responsible for the balance, the variability of the budget, its implementation and the macroeconomic indicators. That's why each one of you said the right thing. And our task together is to bring it together so that, for each direction of the budget, we have the best outcome. And that's our main task with you. I'm going to touch literally a few things that cause serious resonance. Julia Vladimirovna can count. However, she can always count on her own. So here's what I'm going to read for everything, all the radios and the people's deputies. It stated here that expenditure on the Pension Fund was declining for 2007, i.e. the Pension Fund was declining. That's not true. The budget article states that it will return in an explanatory note: “The reduction of the State budget for the pension deficit of the Pension Fund by 5.3 billion grevens, and since the coming to the Pension Fund will ensure the payment of pensions in the solidarity system in full terms of savings and so forth. You must read correctly, Julia Volodymyrna. And the pension fund's spending is increasing by as much as 20 billion dollars. No reduction in pensions is foreseen. Rather than be misled, we need to speak only the truth. And I would also like to address many others who have spoken here from the rostrum. You can argue more or less, but you can't tell lies. There is no mention of money being poured into the budget for the oligarchs. This is about supporting the development of our economy. How else to support, unless the necessary funds are budgeted for technical re-arms, modernization, what the Bronnnikov People's Deputies have said about the fact that we will run out of electricity in two to three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u104	I therefore stress, indeed, that we are taking a very serious step. We are increasing the State support of many sectors of the economy by two and a half times, bringing it to 26.8 billion bracelets. We make it possible for a private business to invest 100 billion dollars. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: That's the guarantee of our growth, of our future, if you will. We must reach $125 billion, this is our capital investment benchmark in 2007. In 2008 - 200 billion bracelets. Only in this way will the economy be technologically re-armed and we will indeed go into the third millennium. And we need all of you to do it together. And it is on this basis that social income, social protection of our people, will grow. Only through economic development. I am grateful to all the people's deputies for the suggestions made, the comments that are based on absolute criticism. Today we will take a decision with you to set up a working group to prepare for the first reading of the draft State Budget Act. We will be with you until 20 October, and it is on 20 October that the budget will be presented on first reading. Detailedly, specifically, discuss all the proposals, all the budgetary positions and I am deeply convinced that we will find an optimal and literate solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'd like to go back to its content and formulation. We are talking about the presentation, the presentation to Parliament of the draft budget. And in summarizing this discussion, I'd like to pay attention to a few moments. First. In the first and subsequent statements, it was said that the government was positive when it considered the government's timely submission of the draft budget. Let's remind ourselves when we created the government, he was able to work on the budget for about a month. Knowing what this document is, what complexity arises from every government that prepares this document, I think it's a really positive fact and it needs to be taken into account. This fact, of course, also predicted the existence of those shortcomings that were discussed here by many deputies, both from the faction and from the committees and in the individual order. Later yesterday, all the heads of committees and factions were able to listen to information about the content, the ideology of the document. In fact, the report that came from the government today and asked questions about the subjects that they were interested in, after receiving the reasoned answers. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Security and Defence Council under the presidency of the President, where the same issues were addressed in the context of the first defence strategy of Ukraine and some other directions. This discussion was also attended by representatives of Parliament. I agree that many questions are not solved, they are at work, and they require immediate solutions if they are able to do so. Part of the questions, for example, defined prices for gas or not, are to accept the budget because there are no defined prices for gas, we seem to have asked this question last year and we were again before the fact. We don't determine gas prices, it doesn't depend on us definitively. And the stability fund that the draft budget provides for neutralizing the negatives that may arise. Because if we deviate from the budget today, let's say the gas doesn't go away. You understand that, too. There are a few points that apply to our Rules. When these standards were adopted in the Rules, the government was formed by the President. And then we used the term: it's a ball on that side or a ball on that side. And today we're playing with one gate. The ball is always on our side. I'm talking about the coalition first. Because at any rate, if they succeed, they'll think it's a success, although those circles will never be praised, you know, if they're flawed, they'll be responsible for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the coalition in Parliament. Clearly, then, the rules of the Rules should take this into account. Because you can work on the budget without taking it into the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's the coalition's responsibility. That is, the majority of Parliament. And the Cabinet of Ministers either discuss it in the Supreme Council, prepare it for the first reading, and it's the responsibility of Parliament and Government alike. In this case, I don't touch on the subject of benefits and budget laws, on the draft budget, and on the draft law, which reduces some of the expenditure provided for in social laws. Because they're more than a few times the budget, it's already common knowledge. Thus, one way or another, a government — and thus a parliament — has to make adjustments in this regard. I will put to the vote two draft documents, two draft decisions that have been tabled for your consideration. The Committee on Budgets proposes such a document. Adopt the draft State Budget Act 2007 before consideration. Second item. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council with the preparation of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2007 before the first reading to create a working group with two co-chairs: the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of the Ukraine of Azarov and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Martinyuk, composed of: Maceinko, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs and three representatives from each faction. It is also suggested that no later than Tuesday, every written committee and every written faction, I emphasize, should make its proposals for consideration by this working group, and that it should be possible to carry out the appropriate work by preparing the document for the first, I stress, reading. There's a second draft -- a decision made by Julia Timoshenko. Content: Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to be rejected. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers, within a seven-day period from the date of the entry into force of this decree, submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft State Budget Act for 2007 to be resubmitted with all the documents provided for in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. This document comes out of the rules of the Rules and deadlines also provided for in the Rules – 7 days for such a case. Before the vote, two factions apparently insisted: “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Block Timoshenko announce a recess for the declaration, in fact, for the declaration of a declaration. If anyone would like to make a statement, please go to the rostrum. Please, Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u106	Stepan Davimuk, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, unobjective accusations have spread in the walls of the Supreme Council, which often violate the basic standards of culture and ethics of human relations. Today, we witnessed such a speech by representatives of the Party of the Regions concerning Mikhail Požinova. It is all the more surprising that Mikhailo Prystonov called on the head of the faction of the Party of the Regions on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Raisa Richter’s content: “I was forced to contact you by the information provided on the Internet by my comment on the tragic loss of people on the West Mine and, as it were, by my harsh political statements and accusations of the people of Donetskina and the Party of the Regions in the tragedy. Although you and I are among the various and even in some matters of the intransigence of political parties, how do we understand that it is impossible on the human mountain to build our career? It's immoral. I've had a lot of time working on Donbas, and I know and I know how hard mining work is, and how many problems there are in this country that need to be solved by all branches of authority to prevent further such a disaster. Concerned about the fact that journalists from some online magazine, by increasing their ratings, are trying to get readers' attention or are making specific orders, have taken advantage of the plight of ordinary people in this case. I respect and respect the journalist's profession, but the correspondents of the news site have used the name Mikhail Zjiživnova for a second time in a scandalous and rude manner. By confusing journalism with mud spills and animosity between our political forces. I hope that you are the leader of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is most represented in Parliament in these particular regions. You will understand the foregoing and will not take a distorted comment as a personal offense. Respectfully, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zjijenov. He made an appropriate request. He made an appropriate statement to the media, as well as to his compassion for Mr. Ephimus Zviagiliski. So in the light of these documents, today's speech by the representative of the Party of the Regions looks deliberate, provocative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u107	I'm asking you, we're not going to be having this discussion right now, no matter what you're giving. Wait a minute! That's what I thought when I gave you the right to speak, because in the context of budgeting. I thought this was going to apply to the budget. But there was something that could be done after the decision was made and after the final consideration of the matter. For replication, you'll get the word after considering the budget. You'll get a replica, right on the line. Please. Raisa Vasilivna. I'm explaining again, I didn't know this was going to be the question. You'll answer that. Get ready now, give an answer. Are you insisting? Well, please, let's close the question with this. Richer than 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u108	Raisa Bogatirirov, faction of “Ukraine”. It's quite obvious that we have to translate a statement for all citizens of Ukraine right now. It is said that the so - called national MP, who has been misinterpreted by the media, apologizes in this way to all citizens and especially to the land where such mourning has occurred today and where people have died today. Just the leftovers. The rest of the conscience forced this national MP to apologize in this way to everyone. We drew attention to those comments, not from what we wanted to provoke the situation, but from the fact that the morals, conscience, and the name of the national MP would eventually begin to prevail in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u109	I'm addressing everyone again: let's be restrained when we make statements on the occasion of the tragedy. For if you enter into a role, do not bring the Lord to anyone in such a role, a family that has lost, either on the one hand or on the other, comments do not bring good to this person and to this family. Let's be restrained, let's not judge or greet or define right now. There are government commissions that deal with the substance of the matter, both in this case and in many other cases. But once again, you can't politicize people's woes. It's just incorrect on our part. I would ask that we always have the right attitude. On the subject of the budget, I am obliged to announce the statement made by the head of the Regulatory Committee, Alexander Efremov. He said that the committee had not considered the issue of the budget, and so the statement made by the deputy who spoke here, Oleg Láška, that this is a committee decision, it does not correspond to reality. That's Oleg's opinion, he has the right to say it. But not from the committee. All right, please. If so, please handle this on the committee. So let's go to the vote. I still have one announcement to make. A socialist faction was held during the break. They put it this way: if the task of creating a working group and the first reading were taken into account by factions and other committees and factions, then they would be willing to support this issue. If not, they will vote for the rejection. It is proposed that a draft decision be put to the vote with such a paragraph. That's why I'm putting a draft decree on the adoption of the draft State Budget Act in the version proposed by MacKeenko, head of the Budget Committee. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:32:45]] For 249 Decision taken. Yeah, let's be less emotional about that kind of acceptance. Me, too. Wait. Please. I am. Please, you wanted the factions, please, I'll call the factions. Please. “Regions” – 186, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 10, “Our Ukraine” – 2, “SPU – 30, Communists – 21. I'd like to say that there's going to be enough comments here right now, of course, and that's the right thing to do. Everyone has a right to speak in the press, and I think we're the source, more faithfully, we're the basis for that. In the Cabinet of Ministers, I would just like the representatives of the political power to vote roughly as in Parliament. Because in the Cabinet of Ministers you can present a faction powerful and a party accordingly, and vote in favour of the draft budget, because that's an internal question. And on the outside, and on the outside, I am addressing you, and on the outside for people to vote "against" to show that we are defending other positions. Let's be appropriate. Thank you. I make an announcement: on the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform that the national deputies of Ukraine: Borgich Alexander Ivanovich, Dentist Mikhailo Vasilovich, Zubik Vladimir Volodymyrovich and Tolstenko Vladimir Leonidovic, who are excluded from the membership of the deputy faction "Bloika Yulia Timoshenko", are non-fractional. This is in line with our Rules. Now, here's the next question, honourable deputies. We have a day-to-day issue of the National Economic and Social Development Programme Act 2007. During the break, many deputies, representatives of various political forces, and committees approached me in the morning. They refer to the rule of the Rules, which provides time for consideration of the matter, to give them such time, because it will be a superficial discussion if we now begin to consider the matter. So there's a proposal to move this issue to the next sessional week, so that everyone can figure it out, and before we look at the budget on the first reading, we had an evaluation of this project. That's why I'm asking you to put it. I am putting to the vote the procedural question of moving the matter to the next sessional one. It's a plenary week. Please, draft Ukrainian Law on State Economic Development Programme. [[13:35:58]] For 246 Decision taken. It's easy to say a word. He's right, I called him his last name. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! I want to report that I have agreed with the chairman of the regulatory committee, Alexander Ephraim. But I did, and I didn't say it was a regulatory committee decision. This is our view of the proposed budget. Everyone has the right to make a statement, including with regard to the regulatory committee, which is to reduce the costs of ensuring the legislative activities of the Supreme Council, which will worsen the quality of Parliament's work and the conditions for the activities of the people's deputies. So you don't have to! They're just walking around the clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u111	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u112	I still have time, San Sanic. They walk around the clocks, they kick each other's ass, and go out on the stand and honestly talk about the inadequacy of certain budget rules, there's no courage to do that. This is the way to be honest before the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u113	Thank you. I'm asking you, let me put it this way: I'm not going to call the last name so no one will take any more words for a replica, but what I mean is, did you get a word in the committee discussion sector, and I asked if you were from the committee or from yourself? They expressed themselves because the committee had not taken such a decision. You're going to be entrusted with the head of the committee, but the committee didn't make the decision -- that's what this is about. But consider. Take it easy. Please. There is an offer: Consider the question of judges. To that end, look at the order in which questions are being considered today. If there's no objection. There's no objection. Then please, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov has the floor. Please. Head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u114	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on September 20, 2006, considered the submission of the executive responsibility of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the executive responsibility of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine to elect the judges of the relevant courts of general jurisdiction on an indefinite basis. The committee supported the submission and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the judges be elected on an untimely basis in the draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is registered and handed down to you. It is proposed that the following procedure be followed for the appointment of judges on an open-ended basis. I'll read out the names of the judge in the draft. If the deputies have a note or a warning to this candidate, then we remove it from the general list and return to its consideration separately. After voting on candidates for whom there are no such observations or warnings, we take decisions on each of them separately. All the judges are here, in the first bed. When I read the name in the judge's ruling, he rises from the place so that the national MPs can see him. Is it accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u115	Not to see, but to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u116	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u118	To be appointed as judges on an untimely basis. The Supreme Court of Ukraine is the school of Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u119	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u120	I won't. The brush of Stanislav Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u121	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u122	The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv Region – Savechenka Igor Borisovich, the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicke District – Levanczuk Alexi Mikolaiovich. Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u124	Saucer. Levanchuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u125	I'm asking Savosin to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u126	There's a question for Levanczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u127	Turn on Savosina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u128	Oh, that's the end of the question. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u129	We're gonna get him off this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u130	It's being removed now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u131	The Court of Appeal of Kiev Billic Irina Mikhalivna, Vatruk Valentine Mikolayovna, Slobodanuk Svetlana Vasilovna, Stryzko Svetlana Ivanovna, Svetlana Vasilovna, Hodak Vladimir Illić; the Local Ordionikidev City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region – Gorbenko Natala Viktorovna; the Local Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska – Ignatenko Victoria Valentinovna; the Local Lord's and Wallinian District Court of the Zitomir Region – Crinicko Leonida Vladislavovic; the Local County District Court of the Ukraine, Lemija Olexia Mikolajowicza; the Local Mestomiric Municipal Court of Crinicko Ludowiatzki, the Regional District of Civ. There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u132	There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u133	There's a note. Let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u134	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u135	Local Rowenkovsky, I'm sorry, Luhansk County City Court Ivashchenko Volodymira Mikolaiovich. Local Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk, Markov Tetjana Grigorovna The local Sikhov district court of Lvov, head of Vasil Jaroslavovich. The local Brezneguvac district court of the Mikolai district of Molchanov Alexander Gavrilovich Local. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u136	Any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u137	Let's delete it. Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u138	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u139	Local Zdolbuni District Court of the Plevak district of Oleg Petrovic The local Barwinkovsky District Court of the Androsov Region of Androssandra Mikolaiovich. The local Dergachev district court of Kharkiv district of Poduban Roman Mikolaiovich. The local Kakhov District Court of the Herson district of Tarantsov Sergey Petrovich The local District Court of Chernigiv district of Terrestrial Alexander Mikolayovich The local desnian district court of Chernigov, Steblin Andrija Viktorovich. The Military City Court of the Cerkasian garrison of Yeltsov Viktor Alexanderovich. Local Commercial Court of the Lviv district of Zvarić
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u140	Welder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u141	Welder to Oxana Vladimirovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, you have draft decree 2202 on your hands. In addition to the candidates mentioned here, Lebanon, Grizzina, and Molchanova, I can put to the vote on the appointment, this draft decision on the election of judges. May I? I'm putting this ruling to the vote. Please. [[13:46:03]] For 372 Decision taken. Let them sit down, sit down while we settle the issues with the rest of the judges, then we'll come back. Lebanon’s Alexei Mikolaiovich, the Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district, wanted to ask Savosin Hennadia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great deal of appeal from citizens in the district on the subject of an unbiased trial by Mr. Levanczuk, a citizen’s claim. And then I ask until I pass it on to my committee, those complaints, it's a question not to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u144	Please, who else would like to make a statement? I don't have a last name. Naduka, Hmielnick, right? Please. I'm asking for your attention. Turn on the microphone. Nuts, right? An area of hops. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u145	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! I have been living and working in this hopsy area for more than a year, and I know very well the opinion of the inhabitants of the hopsy region, I would not want any personal interests or misunderstandings in this room to dominate, Levenczuk Alexei Mikolajovich, a man of absolute political integrity, objectively, having great professional experience, irrefutable authority, as a man the head of the hopsy appeals court. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support and vote in favour. To elect Levantchuk as head of the Hmelnick Court of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u146	Alexandre Alexandrovich, the committee supports this nomination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u147	Please, do you have anything to do with this? Well, wait a minute. Landik, please, Vladimir Landik. So it's confusing the system because it thinks either Valentine or Vladimir. Please. Volodymira.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u148	Thank you. I'd like to maybe fix it or something. For the first time, we have received these gifts from Kiwalov today. There are judges who are from our territory, two from Luhansk. But we don't know them at all, we are now voting for their permanent positions, but neither the committees nor the factions have discussed it. So I'm told that in a voice like that, for a permanent position I'm afraid to vote somehow, I don't know them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Vladimir Ivanovich, is it good that you don't know them? That's the first one. Oh, that's different. The law provides for a procedure. A committee for that is created. We are the chapters of the Committee of the past on two committees, now exclusively justice, judges, including one committee. If you need to get to know the judges, take documents about them, study, ask questions, no one denies it, but this is the procedure. Both the law and the Constitution provide for it. Please, let's take a look. Hennai Savosin, are you insisting on a committee review? If, oh, God forbid, let's say one of the judges didn't go through the polls, that doesn't mean you don't have a chance of being approved by the Supreme Council. Then the committee will reconsider and bring Parliament to its consideration. The arguments, if they are convincing, will be sufficient. Nevertheless, the committee proposes to judge Limanczuk Alexy Mikolayovich, to approve his election as judge on an indefinite basis. Please determine how to vote. [[13:51:15.]] For 352 Decision taken. Please, the next candidate, Christina Valentina Ivanovna. I don't know what the correct last name is, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u150	Grizzina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u151	What were the questions to her? What's your last name? Mutz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u152	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, on June 7, 2000, was assigned to you by the fifth constitutional class of the judge. On February 27, 2004, the assignment of the fourth qualification class was postponed to six months. As a member of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption and Head of the Subcommittee, I was warned of that fact. Please comment on the reasons for the delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u153	As far as I was concerned, discipline was disrupted, disciplined, and reprimanded. It's one day these decisions were made by two people. I challenged this challenge, the Supreme Council of Justice overturned it, and only after that did the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s Senior Qualifications Commission recommend me for election on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u154	Are you satisfied with the answer? Satisfied. Yes, please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u155	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd In six years of judicial practice, I know Valentina Ivanovna as a judge. Those who are not friends with the law are certainly displeased with it. She holds a qualified meeting, she has no comments. The committee recommends. So I'm asking my colleagues to support Valentina Ivanovna's candidacy for election, and when we get a call in this room and talk about whether we want to support or not, let's drop this practice, because we need to know a person very well and then we can only vote for him. I've known her for six years, and I'm asking you to vote for Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u156	Is there any other way of thinking? Calchenko. And then. Bertash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! I know Valentina Ivanovna very well, and I want to assure you that if she did have a point at work, it's only because she's an honest and principled judge. And I fully agree with the assessment that Michael Ilych said, and I ask you very much, let's not make the calls, but let's support it in business quality for this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u158	And Bertash will make that statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u159	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, please tell me, I'm looking at the materials, I'm looking at the decision of a qualified committee of judges. In 2004, you were disciplined as a reprimand for gross violations of legislation, for irresponsible treatment of your duties. Please comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u160	This challenge is over, and discipline is closed. There was a gross violation of the law, and it was a burden to deal with the matter. I had nine cases in my life for over six months. And before that, a year before that, I've been looking into cases, it's about civil cases, I'm more of the 12 judges in court, I've been looking at more of them in civil cases: 691 civil cases, as the other 400 judges were looking at 300 cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Sulkovsky, are you from Kirovgrad, too? Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u162	Alexandre Alexandrovich, and the head of the committee. There's a request. This is such a simple explanation that the compression was removed and so on and so forth. It's no big deal, as in a month's time, we'll be looking at this judge in Parliament, if that's all right. So I'm going to make an offer: I'm going to look at this person for more details. And these contractions, and so on and so forth. It is not easy to get out of her explanation today in Parliament. It's no big deal, let's take an extra look at it in a month or so. Today I ask you not to vote, I call on the people's deputies, for this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u163	What, Sergey Vasilovich, is that the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u164	The committee supported this nomination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u165	The committee supported this nomination. I'm voting on this proposal: the election of Judge Grizzina Valentina Ivanovna as judge. Please. [[13:57:13]] For 214 The decision is not taken. So let the committee study the matter separately and then consider it definitively. Please. Molchanov Alexander Gavrilović, Bérezneguvat District Court of Mikolaiiv Region I had a kind remark, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u166	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Actually, I don't have any comments to say. But I agree with my colleagues in the Party of Regions that we cannot, by vote, approve the judges. We need to know: Who are we approving? I have a specific question to Alexander Gavrilovich, because he is from the Mikolaiiv region and, statistically, citizens in the Mikolaiiv region receive or not the smallest wages in Ukraine, as a concrete example: Article 22 of the Constitution prohibits the adoption of laws that restrict citizens' rights. Today, whether there is a budget that changes the standards of 89 articles and other laws. So when a person comes to you with a complaint about the Budget Law, how will you proceed? Will you consider it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u167	Thank you. I'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u168	Alexander Aleksandrovich, the committee supports this nomination, I ask the people's deputies to support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u169	Please, Alexander Gavrilovich, for the MP has asked questions and is important to him, so please give him a brief answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u170	So I'm going to answer briefly as a judge, I'm not right to say how I'm going to handle this case, this complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u171	Of course, this is the subject of the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you, let's vote essentially. Do you have a note? You won't? Then let's vote. Questions to him? What's your name? It's a bummer, yeah. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u172	Zabluq, Timoshenko Street. Here, regardless of factions, the representatives of the Mikolai district — the national deputies — sit in the hall. There is no point to this judge. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u173	That's what this is about. Thank you. I'm voting for the candidate, Alexander Gavrilovich. I'm asking for your support. Here comes the vote. [[13:59:47]] For 379 I could probably recommend a deputy who spoke to you before each vote, then a good vote. Please. Another ruling. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice at its meeting on September 20, 2006, reviewed the submission of the executive responsibility of the Supreme Court to elect Pello Volodymira Bogdanović as judge of the local Nahim district court of Sevastopol on an uninterrupted basis. Taking into account the negative character of the judge’s work, his low professionalism, his authority to allow him to take matters into consideration, his use of discipline in the form of reproach, as indicated in the application of the executive responsibility of the Supreme Court, the committee does not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect him as a judge of the local court on an indefinite basis, and requests that he not support this candidacy. The committee’s decision was taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u175	We have this procedure: an election order is made and you can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u176	That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm asking. Who wants to comment on this? Please sign in. Please, five minutes. Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u177	Lukyanczuk, the “Julia Timoshenko” faction. If you'll excuse me, I'll give it to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u178	Before that, I announce that the session will continue for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u179	Dear Sergey Vasilovich! I have a question for you: You have just made a statement and said that the committee does not recommend, but all the national deputies have been given a draft ruling on the election of the judge in which I read it reads: “Pick the judge of Nahimova court of Pello Volodymira Bogdanović and your signature under the draft decree. How do you understand that? Did they change their minds in one night or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u180	No, they didn't. This is the order laid down in the Rules of the Supreme Council. We are all in the decision-making process of the Supreme Council. The Committee can only recommend. We don't recommend it. And the ruling is that it's registered as usual, but it goes separately. We haven't changed our offer. Once again, I would like to say that the unanimous decision was on this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u181	Okay. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to go to a colleague who used to speak, and testify to him that, in fact, the candidate of the proposed judge was very seriously discussed. We also analyzed the data offered by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And the Supreme Court did not recommend that, because of the discipline of the assembly, there were observations about the exercise of authority. And really, after a very serious analysis, and you know, in our committee, there are many judges of different levels, with different factions, who have concluded that we really shouldn't recommend. But according to the procedure, really, we're offering you a draft decision, and the Supreme Council is deciding. So there was no change. Such a decision was taken by the committee and is now being proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u183	Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u184	Please give the floor to the national MP Pornov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u185	Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u186	National MP Portnov, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. I wanted to point out that at the committee meeting yesterday, the committee supported this decision, and all the members of our bloc's faction voted and supported it. I wanted to point out that the committee is made up of experienced experts. They made a perfect decision on this issue yesterday. So we ask you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u187	Is there a need for further discussion? Bubbles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u188	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I'm not really in this position. I have a objection, but as for the request to return to the question of Valentina Ivanovna Grizzini. I think we are in a hurry to make a negative decision because there was no convincing argument about not voting for this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u189	Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u191	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, of course we respect the committee's decision, but since we're discussing a living person here, I suggest, just like all the other candidates who have been asked questions, let's raise him and ask him, let the deputies at least look at him. And then we'll make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u192	He didn't come to the Supreme Council meeting today. We invited him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u193	Please. I see. Kenzier's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u194	Alexander Alexanderovich, I wanted to go back to the previous acceptance and, indeed, to the circumstances and arguments that Valentine Ivanovna should not vote, and then I turn to all the men, let them see that all the judges with smiling faces and Valentina Ivanovna with sad eyes. That's no way to treat a woman, gentlemen of men. Let's re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u195	Well, you have more experience, so you can recommend it. Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u196	Please give the word to the Sadducees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u197	Michael Ilchi. Gardens. Well, he's running at the expense of his time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u198	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Aleksandrovich, as a result of some of the circumstances that led to the vote with Grizzina Valentina Ivanovna, I ask that the question be put to the vote again. Go back to the debate and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u199	Thank you. So far, the draft decree on Pello Vladimir Bogdanovich is on the vote. Determine by Voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u200	The committee's proposal is not to support it. [[14:07:48]] For-66 So this candidature is rejected. Who's in charge of going back to the question of Valentine's Grizzin? To return to the consideration of this matter. [[14:08:11]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Please. Dismissed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u201	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings from 6 to 20 September 2006, reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine: Mr. Dedkov's Anatolia Alexandrovich, Mr. Dombrowski Ivan Petrovic, Mr. Matsujak Jaroslava Vasilovna; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Brinsev Vasil Dmitrovic – in connection with their resignation. That application by the Supreme Council of Justice for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Lyczak Dmitry Dmitrovic and the judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine, Junya Viacheslav Vasilovich, in connection with their applications for release at their own request. These judges took an oath from the judges of the Constitutional Court. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for an analogy, which is established by the Supreme Council of the previous convening, to vote on this ruling with the formulation of others. Not in relation to resignation, but in connection with the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. This is a principle of another decision that has other legal consequences. We already have the judges of the Constitutional Court who work there with such formulations when considering their issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking us to mean it. That's my offer. Mikola Onichuk was discussing this issue on the committee. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u203	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Constitution of Ukraine, article 126, defines an exclusive list of reasons on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine can release a judge. And despite the fact that there had indeed been precedents for the Supreme Council to release judges according to its own will in connection with election, but the Constitution does not contain such a basis as the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. So in order to change the proposal made by the committee, we have to change legislation first, including constitutional norms, and only then can we put in a new order. This is the first time. It's different. We need to bear in mind that there are statements by the judges and the application by the High Council of Justice, and unfortunately we cannot move away from the formulations found in the documents. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I ask you to withdraw your offer, vote, and we'll start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m0.u204	Deputies! Mikola Vasilovich, based on the Constitution, is absolutely right. But the Constitution does not regulate all legal relations, especially with regard to the resignation of judges or the change in their workplace. The resignation involves certain legal consequences, and you remember them evidently. We have already taken, the Supreme Council I mean, the same decision, and the formulation was that no one has disputed: in connection with the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In other words, he gets a kind of promotion even because it's a judge, let's say, the highest level. And I would ask, given this situation, to vote on the decision so that we don't have any, let's say, legal commissions. If it turns out to be a violation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court can then correct that detail. I'm asking you, let's not go into detail, because they're not valid on their own. Can I bet with my amendment? Sure. So I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[14:13:01]] For-300 Constitutional majority. Thank you. Yes, we've made up our minds. I would like, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, to welcome all judges who have been elected on an untimely basis and to wish them to be guided in their work by the principles of justice, legality and orderly conduct. I think there's a lot more to talk about. Welcome. [[Applause]] The morning session is closed. Break until 4:00.
