ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. A roll-up registration is carried out, turn on the "Council" system. [[16:03:06]] 436 cards were left in the session room. The evening session shall be declared open. I ask you, technicians, to announce to the MPs who are in the corridor the discussion is that we should go to the session room. In the meantime, it is proposed to consider the issue of the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme for Agricultural Production in the Territory which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster for 2007-2016, with proposals from the President. A spokesman for this issue is Minister of Agricultural Policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich. Yuri Fedorovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u2	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for Agricultural Production in the Area of Radioactive Pollution as a result of the Chernobyl Disaster 2007-2016 was adopted by the Supreme Council on 14 March 2006. The programme envisions a comprehensive rehabilitation and development of agricultural production in the area affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, an improvement in the population's radioactively safe agricultural production, which is designed to improve the health of the population, the socio-economic and environmental situation in the area, its restoration and rational use. Without denying the relevance and orientation of the programme, a number of comments were made by the President of Ukraine. That is: First. The low level of legal action is now financed by the State Budget funds provided for other programs of the Ministry of Agriculture’s Agrarian Policy. First of all, this involves supporting agricultural production, animal production, agrochemical land passporting, scientific development, training, and retraining of agricultural professionals. The other one. According to article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, expenditure on state programmes for the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is carried out within the limits of the budgetary allocations established by the National Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question. In this regard, the National Budget for Ukraine for the Ministry of State for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Radiological Protection and Environmental Health Programme for the Area of Radioactive Pollution, provides for the corresponding costs. Third. The provisions of the law do not include the calculation of the expected results of the programme and its effectiveness, as required by article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Targeted Programmes. The absence of the above components of the programme does not allow its tasks, indicators and measures to be taken into account in the development of the State Budget project for the corresponding year, to be determined by the chief budget manager of the expenditure for the implementation of its constituents and the inclusion by the central executive bodies of financial matters, corresponding budgetary requests and proposals for the State Budget project. To sum up what the President of Ukraine has said, it has been proposed that the prescribed law of Ukraine be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u3	Do you need to ask questions? Please sign up for the questions. Let's take the five minutes that are set by the rules. Please, Trinduk. The widow of Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u4	Pass the word "Lastice," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u5	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter! I'm here. The cost of this program is almost 2 billion dollars. I have a question to ask you, "Who will receive these funds, who will implement this program?" If this is about the Chernobylites, about the inhabitants of the territories that need state support, then we are responsible for, and if this is, excuse me, lobbying certain commercial structures to clean up this money and send the budget money once again to some account known there, then we are against. So, please. An explanation of who will receive this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u6	One minute, Yuri Fedorovich. I ask MPs before asking questions, first read the president's remarks, the content of the law, and listen to what the reporter is saying. I'm asking you, it's completely out of the question. But he doesn't insist on taking the program, he's just suggesting that it be rejected. Please, Yuri Fedorovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u7	Thank you. According to the Act, expenditure from the State budget is foreseen for the implementation of the program for a specified period of one billion 607 million dollars. About one year after the average breakup, 175 million dollars were set for 2007, among other things. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics has been the chief contracting officer of the proposed state budget law, and these funds are primarily aimed at the rehabilitation of the territory and the restoration of agricultural production. So that's the amount of money, and I said, who was supposed to be the main manager of these funds -- the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to finance primarily the restoration of production in polluted areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u8	Please, Yuri Fedorovich. The next question Moses asks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u9	Alexandre Alexandrovich, please pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u10	Mikola Tomenko speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u11	Yuri Fedorovich, this is a serious problem. And we have every time we have a discussion situation, we always look for compromise in a new edition. Have you proposed to the committee not to go to a conflict in part of overcoming the veto of this law, but, say, to suggest that not two, as you say, ministries, but, say, one Ministry of Emergency Situations or the Ministry of Agro-Industrious Politics clearly say that in order to regenerate the land there, it is necessary to restore the soil, because in fact 160 million. In a year, because the program is 10 years old, it's not a fantastic cost when it comes to such a serious problem as restoring life in the Chernobyl zone, because we're always extremes -- either to reject or otherwise. Is there a new version of this law to compromise the position of the committee and the position of the ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u12	Thank you for asking. Understanding the importance of this law and the implementation of this program in areas affected by pollution caused by the Chernobyl disaster, it would certainly be useful to find a compromise and prepare a version of a project programme that can take into account, on the one hand, the need to restore this area, the introduction of land into production and, on the other hand, to optimize with the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u13	Kirilchuk asks the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u14	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I have two questions for you. First, you were required to be a reporter. Tell me, in your heart, you are for repealing this law or for abandoning it in order, in fact, to make adjustments and improve the land that is today. And the second question. In what year and when was the pollution level of our lands and our territory finally tested again? Because, I know, where there was a lot of radiation, there was less radiation, and where there was no radiation, there was a lot of it going on. When did such a test take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u15	Thank you for asking. Well, if you're talking about the soul, I'm in the spirit of being able to do what we're supposed to do on the basis of the corresponding functions of the State Budget. If we are able to do so when we adopt the State Budget 2007 Act, we can do so on the basis of the budgetary programmes that the Ministry of Agriculture has today, but we need additional appointments to do so. That is why we can finance this program or the measures it will take today’s programs. And the second. In the area of pollution, monitoring and radiological services are carried out on a continuous basis. I can't tell you right now on the stand about the results in the division, but the monitoring of the professional services is being done all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u16	Thank you. Yuri Fedorovich, please sit down. What the committee thinks about this is that Valery Mikhailovich Calchenko will report now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u17	Dear Chairman, honourable deputies, what is today the problem of the bill that is being proposed. First, the president understands the problem, he wants to solve it. However, he does not accept the methods proposed in the bill. Why this problem is being raised because today there are 705,000 acres [705,000 ha] of most critical land in Ukraine, primarily in the areas of Volinsk, Žitomirsk, Kyivsk, Ravensk, and Chernigiv, which are contaminated by agrochemical and radioactive pollution. Today, some 40,000 milk - producing cows are being cultivated on these lands. This is what children drink and in this milk of radionucleus is 5 times higher than today’s standards and even more so, the temporary standards that were established on the early days of the nuclear power plant crash. We've taken a close look at the president's remarks, and they apply to the kind of actions that might seem to be foreseen in other programs that are currently funded by the MNS of Ukraine and the MinAPC line. I think the new minister is completely aware that nothing on this program is financed through MinAPC, and what is financed by the Ministry of Emergency Situations is just the control of the milk that children are drinking today. 20 years after the crash, but today the children who live in these areas -- this is rural territory -- have an internal merger of five times that of these standards and more than that of a nuclear power station worker. So the problem is absolutely today, and it needs to be solved. The committee made two decisions: first, to invite the people’s deputies to overcome the veto. If we cannot overcome it, we can send the Law to our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u18	Is there a question to be answered? For three minutes, I was prescribing the rules. Please sign up. Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u19	Thank you. Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Still, you have a voice on the committee. In order to reform this law and invite him to life or to overcome the veto and leave him in the way he is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u20	On the committee, everyone voted in favour of breaking the veto. But given that it's a big problem, there's a second point. If the veto is not overtaken, it is still proposed that this bill be sent for further development in accordance with article 130, paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u21	Castle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u22	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Shevchuk Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u24	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. I fully agree with the former Minister of Emergency Situations in dealing with the Chernobyl accident, who is very well aware of this problem, that we cannot so thoughtlessly agree with the remarks made by the President because there is no time limit for this problem. If we now reject the state-wide land rehabilitation programme, then we recognize that everything in Ukraine's history was Chernobyl's problem, now it's gone. So I think we need to take this problem more carefully and seriously. And I have a question, can we make any changes, start this program not since the seventh year, because we're a little late, but from the eighth year to the sixteenth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u25	Of course, this program should begin on January 1, 2008. And this is a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u26	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u27	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. I think the very logic of what the bill is, it needs really careful, careful work. I think she got it. So we're just going to find that this is going to be a new edition. But basically, I have this question. This is the table that we're being distributed with the President's proposals, but there's no President's proposals here, there's already the proposals of the Bronnikov people's deputy, if I understand. Does this mean, these proposals have already been considered by the committee, or does this mean that the bill actually thinks the committee is working. So we're going to be able to push away from these proposals, or can we approach the problem with a clean sheet and still take these proposals into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u28	The committee is not aware of any submissions made by Deputy Bronnikov. We were only considering the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u29	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear reporter, it is natural that the earth that has been exposed to radioactive pollution should be restored. This does not call anyone into question in view of a host of circumstances, nor will we repeat ourselves. However, it is well known that unfortunately, much of the land that is not radioactively contaminated is not being processed today. And in particular, what I want to ask you is what is the efficiency of the capital injections, so let's say, per hectare of land, and how much is it going to be worth in money, and what is the benefit of this recovery?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u31	I would like you to understand that this is not about agricultural production, but it is about the health of people and especially children who drink milk in contaminated areas. That's his point.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u32	Yes, have a seat, please. It's not just milk, of course. But we need to make decisions. Would they like to participate in the discussion? Please sign in. Regulation. The committee proposes to take 10 minutes to discuss. Sign up. Bye, please. Then Shevchuk and Danieline. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u33	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, we have had such a grave problem for 20 years -- a global catastrophe. And today, in this room, we're asking questions and answers, so if you'll excuse me, primitive ones that don't really match the depth of the problem. Indeed, it is not about the rehabilitation of the lands of Chernobyl, but it is about the health of the nation and the preservation of life itself. With vertical, horizontal emigration of radionuclides, it is clear that we have already eaten the mushrooms both cherry and cherry and meat and so forth. But I'll tell you from the scientific point of view that the vertical migration rate of the radionuclei is today from 80 centimeters to one meter. That means the migration rate is 3-5 centimeters per year. A few years later, on Polissa, on these peaks, where Dnipro and other waters are formed, floods, groundwaters will go through all channels to wells and to all. Do you understand? I am surprised that the problem of the president of the state is so understood today. I don't understand his administration or his secretariat today. You can't just because there's no money, and there's no misunderstanding, and you can't take the whole bill off the table right now. We have managed to submit such a program to the Supreme Council in 20 years. It is not perfect, it has its own wreaths, but this is the basis that we can do, rather than with the money that we allocate to the Minagropolitics and why it is only today that the Minnecology, where we have Minnecreobile in extraordinary relationships. And these three ministries are united; there is much to be done about the money. Our Agrarian Academy of Sciences has developed a whole system of technologies that, by planting the same lupina or other, allows in two or three years, using the same lupina, to make the earth radioactive free of all radionuclei. And it's small money. I don't know if we should beat the President's veto because there's no money, but the budget is forming. In the budget. But I know another thing, if we don't take it out of our sight, and let's work it out, connect it all up, and people will understand us, and we'll understand them as we're talking about life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u34	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u35	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill was prepared by the Committee on Ecology in Parliament last time. And then the committee drafted this bill. And there is some acceptance in the decision, the committee is appropriate, this call is also supported by this bill, because it is really very important. I would also like to draw your attention to the conclusion that there is a conclusion of the Supreme Council's judicial administration that indicates that national MPs have all the legal grounds for overcoming the President's veto. And I will personally vote in favour of overcoming the veto. Since I was chosen, in my own time, from those areas that were contaminated after the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. And I know, as other colleagues know, that this problem has not disappeared, that child health indicators have not improved particularly, but have worsened that there is no economic development in these regions. And it's precisely the creation of a state-wide agricultural production programme in these areas and it's going to be a legislative act that will allow for a variety of programs that exist today and create a single system of action in the form of a state-wide programme. So I'm pointing out that you're pointing to huge costs, these costs are being disbursed right now when there's multiple programs, and several ministries, they're being managed, when the only one fully understood by every state-wide program, then we can talk about the rational use of funds and the economy of these funds. And I also want to remind you, fellow colleagues, as recently as MAGATE has expressed her official point of view that the Chernobyl accident has not had such terrible consequences and that it is more of a psychological trauma, that it is a sort of unhealthy reaction of Ukrainians to this technological catastrophe. But this is not the case with anyone who works with the voters and knows their problems. It can tell us how many disabled people have appeared, how many have been killed who have saved Ukraine and the world from an accident at CHAES. So I suggest we take this problem more seriously. I am surprised that the Minister of Agriculture is so heeded by the remarks made by the Secretary of the President’s Office. I'm sure if the leader of our nation ever goes beyond the border, but to those areas, he'll change his mind, because that question hasn't gone away, it's worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u36	Thank you. Danielle, please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u37	Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. Our committee considered this issue, and Valeri Mihajlovich here said that we had virtually no differences and no political ambitions in that situation prevented the adoption of the programme unanimously. My colleagues, who have spoken before me here, have specifically and clearly outlined the problems that are to be addressed in this programme. I am surprised, as are theirs, by the position of the Minister of Agrarian Policy. Wonder why? To date, this programme will primarily enable those regions of Volínsk, Žitomirsk, Kiev and Rowen regions in these regions to revive, invest in, create a perspective for those rural areas where the programme “Normal conditions for agricultural production” will be cultivated. We have already discussed the issue of orphans with you today, and we have been emotionally in favour of this. To date, however, this programme is primarily aimed at land recovery, the recycling of livestock to ensure that new generations of Ukraine in rural regions do not receive a dose of radiation. I'm talking to you, to everyone sitting here in this room, let's throw away our political differences, let's put aside the disputes that are going on in some way. To date, the problem of overcoming the Chernobyl heritage must unite us all. And by adopting this programme, we are moving forward. This programme was to be implemented from the very first day following the Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, after the first steps that had been taken in that direction during the Soviet Union, this programme had virtually ceased to work. And today these effects of radioactive contamination, especially children's products and where people work, are very relevant. I therefore call upon you all to overcome the veto of the President and to adopt this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u38	Thank you. In summation of the discussion, I would like to address you, honourable deputies, and make a few suggestions. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich! Jaroslav Mikhailovich! Please. The point is that if we can overcome the President's veto, this program will not work now, not because it is imperfect, but because the standards provided for in the law cannot be fulfilled already, in principle. In three months, you can't review the legislative act that deals with this problem, you can't review funding through the budget, and, you know, certain budget positions and so on, it's pretty obvious. But I'm referring in this case to Sergey Shevchuk's proposal, which I said is absolutely correct. What, this problem no longer exists in us? Just think, for about a year, we're predicting 20 billion dollars in order to concentrate in each area that we're dealing with in a particular direction and do something concrete. The disadvantage of the program, it is said, in an argument signed by the President, of course, that he did not write this document, was written by those people who thought so clearly about the program. The disadvantage here is that it intersects like the standards of this program with other programs. So it's natural. There should be no other way. But as for the use of land and education and the other directions of the program itself, because the law itself that we have to overcome the veto, it applies literally to the 4th position. It's about doing it. We must make decisions on this matter, giving any hope to the people who live in this territory and not just in this territory. So I think the proposal Sergey Shevchuk made is right and should be guided. That is, to introduce this law, not from January 1, 2007, but from January 1, 2008, to do what the law stipulates, because it was adopted in March of this year, and we have come to overcome the veto only now. The committee, Valérie Mikhailovich Calchenko, was correct in this regard, and a small amount of money should be concentrated on these needs. The government and the authorities and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Ministry of Education and other ministries that will have to participate in the implementation of this program. According to the rules of law, I am obliged to ask questions about the rejection of this law. Then the veto. And then the adoption of the year-by-year shift amendment law, if we get more than 300 votes, that means the veto has only been overridden. modified lines of entry into force to allow the government to adopt this law. This is what the Rules provide. So first, I'm proposing that this law be rejected as proposed by the President. There's a vote on the rejection of this project. [[16:34:09]] For 207 This offer is not accepted. The second proposal for overcoming the veto in a clean, sort of species. I'm making a proposal to the committee. I ask you again, listen carefully. Take down the vote. I'm asking for your attention! I am obliged to put to the vote a proposal for overcoming the veto that the committee has imposed, but with the view that if we overcome the veto, the time limit defined in the law will not be implemented because it cannot be implemented, the terms of the law have already been lost. So if we don't get through the veto, then I'm going to put again to the vote with the clarifications that are foreseen here, not since 1 January 2007, but since 1 January 2008. I would ask that you then support this third proposal, which, in fact, in obtaining the required number of votes, will mean overcoming the President's veto. Right. So I'm going to put the vote first in the version proposed by the committee -- to overcome the veto. Please. [[16:35:44]] For-31 I think the smart MPs did it without overcoming the President's veto. A proposal is made by Deputy Shevchuk and made by Deputy Calchenko. Please. From the eighth year, leaving everything as it is. From the procedure? Please sign up. Five minutes out of procedure. Meanwhile, Yuri Bogdanovich is going to the rostrum, a representative of the President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u39	Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I have come out here to pay attention not to the fact that we are about to vote, but to the fact that the second time today, with reference to the mythical norms of the Rules, the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter have been violated, which has explained the procedure for reviewing the laws that the President is returning to the Supreme Council. I would like to emphasize once again that if a change is made to the law that was not in the President's remarks, it is seen as the adoption of the law in the new edition, and the President is once again entitled to return to the Supreme Council of his veto regardless of the number of votes that have been cast for the adoption of this law. I ask you, you have the right to vote, even though I don't know who made this proposal, where is it in the comparative table and where did it come from? But once again, it's not about overcoming the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u40	I'll explain the answer to your question. He made this proposal to Deputy Shevchuk. Listen, be careful. He brought in the deputy Shevchuk, saying, "It's not seven, it's eight." Do I have to write? Write and pass it on, please. And the committee made the same point. Please. Please, we've got Onitchuk on file. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u41	Thank you. Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, in fact, if we take into account some correctness regarding the possible amendment of this law, including when it comes to the deadlines for its implementation, it does not mean that we can vote on it today under the Rules. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, the Rules clearly state that Parliament in this case can entrust the committee only with its completion according to a comparative table and so forth. After this revision, the bill is reintroduced into the hall, and the deputies, with the corresponding comparative table, can make decisions and adopt decisions. So we would ask that we act in accordance with the Rules, and this would be better for both the law and the legal culture of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u42	Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u43	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I think that none of the MPs working with the voters will deny that the land that is polluted needs serious investment and investment and investment and serious work on the subject. In fact, everyone here agrees. But this bill foresees huge costs in this matter, while there is no mechanism to control their use. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we already have a sad experience as your partner was Minister of the APC. I don't think without the control system that this law should provide for, we can't vote for this bill. So there is the only mechanism proposed by the committee head Calchenko: to pass this law on to the committee. And that's the proposal I'm asking you to put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u45	Incorruptible, final remark.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u46	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Well, it seems to me, after quite a bit of a literate explanation by Yuri Klukkowski and Alexander Turchinov, it is quite clear that we cannot act against not only the regulatory rules but also the meaningful ones. Because because it's a program -- it's been a while -- and even the quality and the underlying circumstances have changed, we're not going to change anything. We're just going to show, well, a frivolous attitude. So in this case, you don't have to make, well, any decision at all, regardless of whether it conflicts with the Rules, even if it doesn't conflict. It should, indeed, be carefully looked at, on every sentence, and, indeed, it should still be considered by a carefully profiling committee, and only then put to the vote. And this is really going to be a new piece of legislation that's already going to be viewed by the President as a new piece of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u47	Another question is whether it's an offer. Artemenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u48	Dear San Sanic, well, I would just like to support what the committee colleagues said. Come on, we're going to vote on our proposal to work on the committee, and if we don't, then we're going to decide what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u49	I'm taking all the notes into account, including those that talked about the comparison table, about all the other things. You've noticed, obviously, that the President's proposals didn't have specific comments, either, but simply to reject. And the argument here was quite a good one. What we need to do is not be able to work in that sense now, or in that section, as prescribed by the Law, so we had to move for a year. You think it's a review, I'd ask for a re-examination. So I have a suggestion, whether I'm working, let's ask the committee to make the change he suggested here and next week to look at it. There is no denying that our specific MPs will see, not 7, but 8, and then it will become clear. I ask you to vote on this proposal. Go to work and take the plenary meeting next week. Please, I'm begging you to back me up. [[16:42:32]] For 222
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u50	What else was the offer? Come on, Michael Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u51	Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable members of the people, I ask the faction once again to put to the vote the President's motion to reject the bill and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u52	Just a minute. I'll put it, but with this condition: first let's vote for the return to the vote, in principle, and then let's put what. Please. Support me, please. [[16:43:31]] For 401 Now I remind those who will vote. We can't beat the veto in this way because we know in advance that this rule won't work because there are no deadlines, there are no deadlines. And we have to send for work. But first the President's proposal, the faction's proposal to defeat the President's veto, is voted out. It's predetermined here. I'm making a proposal to beat the veto. [[16:44:21]] For two. This offer is not accepted. I'm voting on a proposal to draft a bill on the profile committee and to put it up for consideration by the Supreme Council next week. I'll bet you a vote. About project development. Please support me. [[16:44:48]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. Please. The Ukrainian Act on Introduction is under consideration. Please publish in factions. 4 – from “Regions”, 117 – from “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”, 67 – from “Our Ukraine”, SPU 33, Communists 20, non-fractional – 1. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, with proposals by the President. This is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich reporting, please. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u53	Thank you. Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, adopted on 16 March 2006, provides for a legislative regulation on the implementation of social protection functions and the determination of the status of citizens who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster by a special authority authorized by the Central Executive Authority and is also provided for by this law to bring the Chernobyl Act into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance and the elimination of discrepancies in the name of local authorities. Taking into account today's experience of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the veto was voted before this law, where it is legislatively established that orphans are citizens up to the age of 35, I would like to urge the Ukrainian national deputies not to pass the veto on this law, but to support the President's proposal. For example, the President proposes that this entry, which gives the right to a 50% discount on housing and utility tariffs for citizens who have Chernobyl categories, as well as members of their families, be recorded in the law, children regardless of age and marital status. Nevertheless, the President suggests not to introduce a new terminology, that children regardless of age and marital status to be recorded as “teen-year-old children”. I ask you to support the President on this matter. And I would also like to point out that these statutory 50% discounts on housing services are being maintained, we just regulate terminology and also with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, and I ask for support, especially to focus on 67 articles, because for six years now, pensions have not been indexed to black people and it is necessary to eliminate this injustice in this particular category of citizens. At the conclusion of my statement, I would like to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine, not to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, and, if there are any misunderstandings with the Ukrainian national deputies, it is better to refer to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u54	There's no questions, is there? Have a seat, please. Who's speaking from the committee? Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Are you Valery Mikhailovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u55	Deputies! Our committee has carefully studied this important law for the Chernobylites. And what's more, there were a lot of community organizations at the committee meeting, and we've practically taken all the positions, they're agreed. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 130, paragraph 6, of the Rules, partial acceptance of the President’s proposals. The committee agreed with the President's proposals for the payment of housing and utility benefits to members of the family who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, young children, that is, what the minister was talking about. At the same time, the committee cannot agree that the President proposes to delete paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 of chapter one and paragraphs 2-3 of chapter two. We reject these Presidential proposals. The point is that the law is fundamentally different from the current approaches based on the size of pensions, compensation, and the social standard applied to the minimum of living. The Act aims to increase the level of social protection for victims of the Chernobyl disaster, including disabled persons, children with disabilities, families who lost their breadwinner as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The system of social protection for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster needs reconstruction. The subsistence minimum is the basic national social standard. Applying this social standard to the provisions of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to the calculation of an additional pension for damage, health and monthly compensation in case of loss of a breadwinner. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Minister's decree in 2002 has set the calculated amount of the minimum pension in size, think about it: 19 pounds 91 copies and this is the basis for today's pension. Today, the standards of article 54 of the current Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster do not fully comply with the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act. The Committee also proposes to bring in paragraphs 6, 13, 14, 15 of chapter 1 of January 1, 2008 into force in agreement with the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u56	Right. We follow the procedure envisaged in considering such a matter. No, it's not. Valerius Mikhailovich, stay in the rostrum. Please. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules, we can immediately vote on the law with amendments by the President, perhaps considering it and taking into account the proposals made by the committee that dealt with the matter. I mean, either at separate points, going and agreeing whether or not to the President's proposals, or if the Supreme Council so decides, if it doesn't object, then we can simply put to the vote a proposal for a committee to vote on this project, taking into account a partial consideration of the President's proposal. The argument regarding the president's amendment to Chapter 1, paragraphs 13-15, of the Valeriy Mikhailovich Act explained why it should be rejected. And the first amendment agreed that we should support the President's thinking. So we can put it, I can put it now if you agree with that bill to support the Supreme Council with partial consideration of the President's proposals. And taking into account Valeri Mikhailovich's proposal, the committee. But for the first time, I'm going to make the President's proposal to vote this whole project as he suggests. As reported by the minister. Once again, as reported by the minister, I repeat, not as reported by the chairman of the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:53:43]] For 232 Decision taken. So we accept this document as proposed by the President. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party – 174, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 49, SPI – 2, Communists – 1, non-fractional – 2. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Social Protection Laws, which resides in observation zones, is being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. This is a further draft of the Law, which was considered by the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Reported by the Head of the Committee, Vladimir Costinovich Bronnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished by Alexander Alexandrovich. We are considering a bill with you that has already been considered twice in this room. The last decision was to refer it to finalization, as we finally agreed with the Ministry of Finance to consider it substantively and to consider it in essence. This consideration has taken place, the table proposed to you says that we have deciphered what medical monitoring is, we have deciphered what is a socio-economic risk compensation and a common understanding has come and Minfin, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations. We've identified with a source of funding, we've said that this is the production activity of the legal entity that operates, or the atomic station, or the radioactive waste treatment plant, or the treatment of uranium ore. We are still in the bill, and I am speaking specifically for the transcript, taking into account the latest observation by the Ministry of Emergency Situations that the word is not in accordance with the spirit of the law, because the plan implies simply paper, but simply takes steps to eliminate and protect the population. The Committee considered the text before you yesterday carefully and, given that it had already reported on a number of occasions in this room and that it agreed on the substance of the law and on the substance of the proposals contained in the law, the Committee proposes the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u58	We're looking at the second reading procedure after the revision. So please amend the MPs here, they're considered by the committee, if the amendment authors have any comments, suggestions, they can make them. Are they so desirable? So I have reason to suggest that you vote on this project as a whole as a law adopted by the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? None. I'll bet the vote on that proposal. Please. [[16:57:48]] For 368 Decision taken. Thank you. Under the short procedure, the Conciliation Council proposed to consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on economic societies for the reduction of the quorum for general assemblies. What? Wait a minute, wait a minute. I'm sorry, I missed the draft of Law 0814. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of Their Property Complex” with proposals by the President. A completed project after the appointment of the Supreme Council. Reported by Teether Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Science and Education. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u59	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a revised Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex is proposed. The proposals of the President of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration were taken into account in the drafting of the law. The changes were supported by the Academy of Sciences and discussed at the committee meeting yesterday. The committee unanimously supported the proposed law and invites the Supreme Council to adopt the law as a whole. The other one. The proposed revision proposes the deletion of the words “such an order includes the right to disclose, in accordance with the banking legislation, current and deposit accounts in banks and to keep funds in these accounts”. We're removing it. And the last sentence after the words “paying services costs” should be supplemented by the words “except for that part that is to be counted under the law in the State budget of Ukraine for the year in question” and then by the text. And the third. There is a note of our Legal Authority. Unfortunately, the observations of the Legal Authority do not match the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Lawyers note that there are budgetary institutions among the scientific institutions of the academy that are nonprofitable. The revenue from the services provided by such institutions is the income of the State budget of Ukraine. Indeed it is. But this law gives scientific institutions the right to direct these funds to meet their own needs, and this should be taken into account in the further transformation of government budget projects. I would ask the MPs to adopt this law as a whole, as it does not make any changes to the existing State budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u60	I'm talking to Mikhail Vasilovich. Are all the comments made by the deputies during the previous discussion included here?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u61	Everyone to one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u62	All of them? And the change is only about the first point, the comments and the suggestions, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u63	Yes, and we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u64	Is there a need to ask a further report? He's got Laszka. Well, of course you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u65	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The Honourable Reporter concludes that the comments of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office, which has been reported to the draft law, indicate that the proposed law contravenes article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which laws that affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion should be made public by August 15. You didn't answer that question. What about it? In case we support this bill you're proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u66	I said, by the way, that the introduction of this bill, if it's legal, doesn't make any changes to the state budget. And the legal system ran out. I told you from the very beginning to listen carefully to the differences between legal administration and scientific expertise. So yesterday, when we discussed it on the committee, we unanimously made a decision, just as science and expertise and legal administration had done, we almost agreed. There are no changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko understood your answer. I can see by the reaction. So I have every reason to put the whole law to the vote, given the refinement that was made during the redrafting, right? May I put it to a vote? I'm putting this bill to a vote. I'm asking you to decide. [[17:03:22]] For 362 Thus, according to the Rules, this law is considered to be acceptable. I mean, overcoming the President's veto. I was separated here in connection with the Head’s responsibilities to negotiate, and now I cannot answer the question clearly, for the Conciliation Council was offered a proposal to consider later the question raised by Yuri Voropeyev. Should it be considered now? Now. I mean, things have changed. Thus, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies is reported by the head of the Economic Policy Committee of the European Jury Mikolajovich. [[on the reduction of the quorum plank for general meetings]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u68	Act No. 1129 of Ukraine was submitted to me, Voropejiv Jurij Nikolaevich of the Party of the Regions. The bottom line is this. At present. Article 41 of the Act provides that more than 60 per cent of shareholders must be present in order for a quorum to be held in meetings of shareholders irrespective of the form of ownership. At the same time, the Ukrainian Act, both the Economic Society Act and a number of other regulations, such as the Ukrainian Civil Code, provides that more than 50 per cent of the votes are sufficient to be taken by shareholders at the meeting. That is, a simple majority of votes are taken. This inadequacy results in a huge number of corporate disputes and this discrepancy is precisely used by raiders to capture enterprises. This means that 10, 20 per cent of the rider who owns the rest of the individuals actually shut down the shareholders' meeting, do not conduct them, and allow the management that personally controls to manage society uncontrollably for many years. How does this happen? There are cases where there are no shareholders' meetings for five or more years. This means that a minority shareholder cannot exercise his right to convene a meeting, and you know that a shareholder who owns 10 per cent or more of the shares has the right and society is obliged to convene a meeting at his request. He cannot exercise this right because another minority shareholder, who owns 20 per cent of the shares, is blocking the issue. Let's move on. A minority shareholder, in order to ensure that his rights are not violated so as not to undermine his own property, has the right to oblige society to appoint and carry out an audit, an unplanned audit of society. A shareholder with more than 10 per cent of the shares has such a right. However, the audit committee is again hearing a meeting of shareholders. Once again, a quorum at the shareholders ’ meeting is needed to convene it. The quorum's not going. So, what's going on? That a majority shareholder could not exercise his right to, say, contribute to and develop an enterprise's statutory fund. A minority shareholder cannot exercise its right to monitor the activities of an enterprise. Only one person wins is the executive body. Also wins a redder, which, having a small package, creates difficulties for the enterprise, then comes to the majority shareholder and says, "Here's my package, please buy it for me, but at a price of five or six times the real value." That's why I proposed a bill to lower this plank -- the quorum at the stockholders' meeting -- to 50 plus one share. I have examined other countries' legislation, such as European legislation. The quorum for gathering shareholders in Europe is approximately 25 per cent. Let's say in France, 25 percent of the quorum. I've been reviewing the legislation of the CIS countries. It varies from 30 per cent, the plank varies to 50 per cent. Many have asked questions, and I have been asked many times in the debates: and how, why is there simply a separate norm being made, without addressing all the activities of the shareholders, not as if there were activities related to additional safeguards for the protection of minority shareholders, not to reduce the duration of meetings, well, and others as questions. For six years, even I think there are more attempts in this building to enact a law on equity societies, and they are constantly blocked. Why? The Act on Shareholders contains a range of rules that regulate the activities of these societies, starting with the simplest things, such as the Charter, for example, the activities of all governments, including executive bodies, and all other issues. Finding an understanding of the whole range of issues is very difficult. That's why I offered to go in pieces and share the pie in pieces. At this stage, I propose to address the issue of lowering the quorum. I've got everything. If I have any questions, please, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Board suggested that the project be reviewed in a simplified manner. I'll put this proposal to the vote first. Who is responsible for reviewing this bill in a simplified manner? [[17:09:56]] For 236 Procedure accepted. Please, is there a need to ask a reporter? Please sign up. Although this rule does not provide for this, as an important question, please. Five minutes. You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u70	Please hand it over to Keykowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u71	Klukkowski, please. I announced Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u72	Thank you very much. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, I'm afraid you've applied logic and arithmetic, well, you've completely convinced everyone that you don't have to vote in favour of your Law, because this whole argument was against it. But since you're so actively promoting the fight against raiding, the first question is, don't you think it'll just make it easier for the raiders first? And second of all, don't you think that you have to fight the raid with a few other means, not, as it were, with the rights of minority shareholders? And thirdly, don't you think that 49 percent of the shares are enough to be completely ignored by the company?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u73	First, the rider never goes to the market or goes to fight the 40 per cent package. He doesn't need it. I've got practice like a lawyer. He's got 10 percent, tops, 20 percent. The idleness of the other shareholders is the first. Secondly, if you think that the protection of the minority shareholder is that he can just block the work of the government, then I'm sorry, I don't think there's any logic here. If he is interested in receiving dividends, he should be interested in holding a meeting if he is interested in operating and overseeing the audit commission and the shareholders themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u74	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u75	Dear reporter, please tell me that you referred to the experience, the jurisdiction of others, you know, in particular about the countries you spoke about, do not contain in their legislation the notion of “closed stock companies”, this is the first time. And secondly, there's stock companies, and their shares are in the open market, and there are millions of shareholders. That's why this investment rate is being applied, and that's not typical of the Ukrainian legal system. The question is: You may have pointed out that the bill provides for a variety of legal arrangements for the same business entities. The difference is whether there is a part of the state or not. How does this harmonize with the constitutional requirement that the legal regime of business is equal to all entities, regardless of the form of ownership?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u76	On the last question, if you please, I will answer. The law requires equal treatment. Which is the difference between this law and the next law, which will also be followed, 1245, and I am also the rapporteur on it. This law requires equal conditions for all operators. He just assumes a gradual introduction, not more. Why is that? Because there are now hundreds of cases in the courts for which certain unscrupulous shareholders are currently using no more. And with regard to legislation regarding open stock companies, I want to tell you that I fully agree with you. We must strive to ensure that our equity societies are also open. Moreover, I also filed a bill on my own behalf concerning the obligation to disclose shareholders. However, in order to do so, the proportion of major shareholders needs to be gradually washed away, but not immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u77	Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u78	Please give the word to Alexander Bondar, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u79	Give it to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u80	Alexander Bondar, “The Council”, “Our Ukraine”. You wanted to enforce this law so badly that you were already confused on the committee completely. What kind of bill are you reporting? Is it his or is it the one who handed out Plastinski on behalf of the committee today? Where changes have been made, the law has not been revoked and no new law has been introduced. So what are we voting for? What's the committee's opinion? The committee proposes a completely different edition. The Scientific and Experimental Department is proposing a completely different version of this law. What do you suggest we vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u81	First, I am speaking on behalf of the Committee. And when I answered Mr. Oneschuk's question, I said that he was part of it. It is now being introduced for State enterprises, what you are now saying with regard to the Committee's decision. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u82	Please. Just a minute. Yuri Mikolaiovich, I announced Project 1129, which you are the author of. And you're reporting your project. There's a comparative table that goes down to two points, you know, not other laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u83	I answer now and report to you on not only my own behalf as the author, but also by the Committee's decision I am a co-rapporteur on behalf of the Committee and I speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u84	Please, have a seat. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u85	Bill 1128 is proposed by the Committee and me, including myself, and I agree with the decision of the committee in my drafting with the gradual introduction of it. Since publication, it has been in place for public sector enterprises, where the share of the State has been more than 50 per cent and has been in place for all operators since 1 July 2007. 1129 is alone. There are no two laws, 1129.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u86	I'm asking you to calm down. The situation was clarified. Please. Have a seat, please. Two "for", two "against". If you want to be supportive, write it down. To support who will. Alexander Valentinovich, you're free. Please, Komar, Kuzmanka. Who's against it? Who's against it? Sign up as opposed. Snatcher : Snatcher : Snatcher : Snatcher : Mosquito, please. You have every monitor. Look, it's all written down. Is there a mosquito? Chechatov? Please, Chechetov. I beg you not to make any noise. We haven't met yet. He doesn't see him. He doesn't know him. Come on, get to know each other. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u87	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! I think no one in this room will challenge Ukraine's European choice. The only thing to say is that in order to minimize the time frame for entry into the European Union and minimize the financial and economic costs in this way, we probably need to exploit the potential of our normal, good-neighbourly relations with Russia. And second moment. We already have a serious need to attach our legislation to European norms, as it were, today. To date, this has already been illustrated by the fact that the normal quorum for holding a stockholders meeting is 25-30 per cent and we have 60 as much as twice. Where should we go to Europe? There won't be a door open. What does that lead to? The following leads to the fact that an investor or owner, or shareholder with a control package and more shares, cannot develop an enterprise development strategy: financial, economic, technical, technological, because it cannot provide a new management. There is a need for a meeting to be held in order to set up a new management. As a matter of fact, it is not possible for a mature administration to put sticks in the wheels and hold a meeting. I therefore propose and ask for the support of a bill that implies a reduction in the norm or quorum for holding a meeting in economic societies from 60 to 50, almost bringing us closer to European standards. And in favour of this bill, I think we are voting in favour of Ukraine's European choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u88	Please, Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u89	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexander! I would like to express my support for this bill for the following reasons. First of all, we talk about investment attractiveness all the time. And please tell me, will any investor find the package smaller than 60 percent today? No, he won't, because when he invests, he doesn't get to run the company. That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me, did not yesterday’s report on the situation in the oil and gas complex of our special commission convince you that it is urgent to intervene? I think an honest person has to say: we need to intervene in the management of those enterprises where the government share is 50 percent. This is all taken together, not to mention the European choice, the hairdressing, as my colleague Mikhailo Chechetov said, the Ukrainian legislation on European manners -- that's enough to vote for this law. If we want to continue reading in newspapers, how a small group of people block the business, then let's leave it as it is. If we want to give the owner a little bit of control to run the business, then let's adopt this law. I think we need to vote for him, we need to support him, and I'm sure there are enough votes in the room for that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u90	Okay. Have a seat, please. Nietsuku wants to make a statement. You're handing it over to Bondar. Please. This will be an interesting discussion, two heads of the holding fund from different positions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u91	Position one, form another. First of all, I'm surprised, and a little bit of an emphasis is on the activity that this law puts to the vote: the 15th, the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Department, the 30th, the letter of Azarov, the 4th, the committee, the 5th, the session. I don’t remember any law so fast. A completely different version of the law is proposed. It's given out today on behalf of Platinum. It says here what is proposed in the first reading of the draft law in the new edition. This would require that the MP withdraw his choice and submit another one. It's in the same line that they're moving in. I know where I was yesterday. I don't need to tell. It's because of what's going on at the Economic Policy Committee that I left the meeting yesterday. And I don't have to tell you that. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u92	Don’t get into an upheaval that the audience won’t understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u93	If it is proposed to edit the Zaplański Committee, shareholders’ associations are placed in different conditions: for the state, for the private, and for the private. That's what the Science and Experimental Department said is contrary to the Constitution. And the second. All these standards that are introduced here don't solve the question that you want to solve. You know, you have to decide in a complex way: the new Law on Household Associations to cook, the protection of minority shareholders to make, not to solve one single issue. And I ask you once again to read the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Department, look at the Voropeyeva project, and look at the project that was handed out to us today on behalf of the Platinum Committee, and you'll realize that there's a lot of confusion in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u94	I'm making myself clear again. MP Voropeyev reported on his project 1129 and the committee entrusted him on behalf of the committee to say the same thing, to say the same thing, that's all. That's why we don't take this document into account, because the committee changed its position, and that's how I got it. Please, Belarus, announce yourself because I don't know everyone yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, Andrey Portnov, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill is just a cavalry jump. The technology of reducing the quorum in the stockholder society, which we believe will lead to massive corporate conflicts, to the cynical acquisitions of stock companies that will begin as soon as this Law enters into force and 45 more days to be held, to the organization of the first general congregations. As of January next year, we'll see a complete redistribution of property in the country -- that's the first. The other one. This problem is the problem of lowering the quorum in stockholder societies. This is a problem of the dissertation of many, and this is a very scientific problem. It has been working for ten years in Ukraine with international financial organizations, country scientists, and experts. The Act on Shareholder Society, which was prepared on nearly a hundred pages through this Hall, did not go through either the previous call or the previous one because it was not possible to carry it out. As for the specific reduction of the quorum, regarding the redistribution of property. First, it's going down by ten percent, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, Small shareholders will need not only small ones but also those who own 49 percent of the shares. And I would like to pay particular attention here to the position of the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which protect the rights of small shareholders in their programs. The country has 36,000 shareholders. To date, some investment practices have been developed in Ukraine for 15 years. Investors who invested 40 percent of their shares had a certain investment strategy. And today, in one day, to deprive them of that fate because of the total rejection of their positions, that is a totally unacceptable position for us. What needs to be done is to take into account in small shareholders the purchase of shares at a market price. To do this, markets, stock exchanges, and so forth must be developed and organized. It's a whole layer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u96	I would like, honourable deputies, not to translate the question into politics here, but to pay attention to one detail. Why do you think the Cabinet of Ministers supported such a project? And I explain why. Let me explain. Because this is not about protecting shareholders, it is about protecting the interests of the state, where we have many examples today, when 50.1 per cent of the state, and the company works for a shareholder who has 10 per cent of the shares or holds shareholders in bonds. For the whole reason. Therefore, it is suggested that you accept it in the first reading, and that you continue to discuss it, consider it, make your suggestions. I'm betting on a draft law for adoption on the first reading as a basis. Please. [[17:27:50]] For 236 Decision taken. Based on the base. Please further develop the document for second reading. I announced 1129 three times, which was reported by Deputy Voropeyev. A draft decree on the agreement between the location of the objects and the change in the target use of the land area is under consideration. [[completed]] Reports Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u97	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the draft Supreme Regulation on agreeing on the location of objects and changing the target land use that was considered in the first reading was adopted on September 21st this year for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a determination. During the drafting of the decree, no comments and suggestions were received from law - enforcement entities. Once again, the committee worked hard on all the materials listed in the draft regulations. And taking into account the comments you made when considering it in the first reading, the committee prepared information on the agreement of the location of the listed objects with all the bodies provided for in the Ukrainian Code of Land, which is contained in the materials given to you. With a list of all the consent documents. So the national deputy of Ukraine, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, expressed doubts about the decision of the district and district council. The first item in the article provides information on this subject. During this time, the Head of the Supreme Council received a call from the district council of Léline on the agreement and purpose of the matter. This address is given to you. The other one. According to articles 156, 157 and 207 of the Ukraine’s Code of Land, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ljášk Olež Valeriyovich, for damages and damages to owners and land users in accordance with articles 156, 157 and 207 of the Ukraine Code of Land, the materials contain adequate validation and computational information on the extent of the damages to be recovered. Ukrainian National Deputies Yavorowski Volodymyr Alexanderovich were questioned about the areas of land that are being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 150 of the Ukrainian Land Code, and a comprehensive list of such lands has been established, according to which the alienation of any area of the land should be carried out only under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is not possible to present copies of all the materials, since it is a very large volume. Let me just point out that all the materials and original documents listed in the consent information on these objects are on the committee, and if you want to, you can get to know them at a convenient time. In the Committee's re-work, all the Ukrainian national MPs who wanted to get to know the materials and any comments that had been made to the committee didn't come forward. All materials meet the requirements of current land legislation in Ukraine, and the committee recommends the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in second reading and in general as a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u98	It's about reviewing the document after it's been processed. But the document itself, I don't have my own decision. Do you have it? Give it to me, please. Apparently, I wasn't put in the Secretariat. Please. In the meantime, answer the question. Tomenko has a question, please come back. Any more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, since I'm one of the ones who initiated the transfer of this issue, I think it would be right to act as follows. So there's a bunch of objects here. And my own initiative suggested that the committee examine the subject in the Cherkas region of Lyshin. Relevant documents have been sent to the district, district council, asking for support. At the same time, I know that there are warnings about other objects. I think, Alexander Alexanderovich, it would be right to act as judges in a situation like this. If there are warnings or diversions on specific subjects, they should be excluded from the list and voted without these objects so that areas where local self - government is supported will not be affected. So let's say that if we get a couple of objects where there's a principle concentration, we call them, we rule them out, and we vote for the rest, because in my particular case, in the Cherkas region, local self-government supports, and I'm in favour of that vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u100	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u101	Deputies! For all the objects defined here and on which to make a decision, there is total agreement between all the village councils, district councils, district councils, and all of this has been checked by the Cabinet of Ministers. All the documents are completely there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u102	Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u103	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Yesterday our agrarian committee at the Supreme Council was discussing this issue, and you're surprised that the people's deputies, the former asked questions from the BUT faction, I don't want to call his last name so he doesn't use it for another minute, so please tell me that we don't trust 60 or 80 or 100 deputies from some district or district council, we're smarter than those deputies who made that decision on the spot? You just have to have a conscience or you just have to put a dead nail somehow to find something to the populists to do with anything here. So I'm making an offer, Alexandre Alexandrovich, yesterday our committee was carefully approaching this issue, and there was no doubt about it. So please put to the vote and call on the MPs to support everyone without exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-05-m1.u104	Paul Gnatovich, I accept your comments, but you're on the committee, considering this question, even though you might think that if you gave information about the changes, you would also have a draft regulation, a document that is voted on by the Supreme Council. And then you missed some sort of detail, and now you're reading morals. Please be careful. I pay attention to such details, honourable deputies. In the second reading, we adopted the document, voted on it, and then commissioned it to clarify the location of the objects, and this clarification was passed through the committee, and the proposal it makes is based on this information that is in your hands. That is, the comments taken into account, including the Lysinian object spoken by Mikola Tomenko, and now we simply need to vote on the ruling that we have already voted on in the second reading. Rather, we need to make the decree we have voted on in our first reading a second reading as a whole. But since I repeat, since there is no document on my hands, I will not put it to the vote until the MPs have received the ruling. I ask you to support my proposal and vote after that. It's like the MPs are getting a ruling in hand. Please support this proposal. [[17:37:04]] For 122 When I speak to you, listen to what I say. The information is quite clear. The committee considered the proposals. We commissioned him to work on the document himself. This information gives substance to the observation made by Deputy Sulkowski. There were really no more stupid than all the other people who accepted the offer. That is, in the second reading, we need to vote on the decision to which this addition in the form of information will be made. For technical reasons, however, the committee did not give the text of the ruling itself. So I ask you to agree to postpone this vote to the next day when this document will be issued. I see. Because you don't have a decision on your hands. Support my offer. I'm asking everyone. That's it. We'll vote tomorrow. I'll put it to a vote. Hold on, let's talk about this tomorrow. [[17:38:26]] For 362 It's a procedural question. But I'm paying attention to the committee of profile and the rapporteur -- the MP, Valery Fedorovich -- this is very important for everyone -- when you go to the rostrum to report, see what you're proposing, so that the MPs know that they have a reason to ask a question. Didn't the machine reproduce? I have already given an appropriate assignment to the representative of the Apparatus. If he repeats himself, he will be punished. Please. We need to put in order of day and consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Property Responsibility for Violations of Contracts, as well as the draft Regulation on the 100th anniversary of the publication of the magazine “Ukraine”, registration number 2185 and 2174. Wait a minute! I say again: nothing is given. Well. Please: support the proposal to include these two issues in the agenda. Please. [[17:39:58]] For-153 The decision is not made. Thus, the order of the day is exhausted today. I'm adjourning the evening session. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
