ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:25]] There were 400 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear National Deputies! The opening ceremony of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov and the government, acting Head of the Constitutional Court Boris Pavlovich Evgrafov, Acting Head of the Supreme Court, Peter Philipczuk, Acting Head of the Supreme Court, Sergey Fedorovich Demchenko, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, Alexander Mikhallovich Pasenyuk, Head of the National Bank, Vladimir Semenovich Stelmach, Head of the Court of Auditors, Valentin Kostinovich Simonenko, Authorized Supreme Human Rights Council, Nina Ivanovn Karpachov, Head of the Central Election Commission, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, General Prosecutor Alexander Ivanovič Medovičko. Also present are representatives of the public, the media. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled for the fourth public call.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the floor for the speech is given by the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, Honourable Yuri Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished representatives and leaders of the judiciary, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Not for the first time and not for the last time in the history of Ukraine will the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be marked and marked with electoral content. Not for the first time nor for the last time will our views and moods, our political preferences and differences be reflected in the harsh and hot confrontations of the controversy. At the same time, the special feature of today’s period is that after the presidential elections, the first legitimate leadership of the state must be at all levels. In fact, it is a choice of the future. And it is now evident that it can be given at a high price and will require a special responsibility, so it is only natural and understandable that a political component will prevail in the Supreme Council of today’s activities. Our job is to make sure that it serves to maintain social dialogue, balance and predictability in the country. Our task is to prevent and prevent any natural or willfully organized disturbances, uncivilized manifestations. It is fitting to remind that a proportional electoral system places great responsibility on party leaders and blocs, parliamentary factions. Today, the work of the House of Deputies is more important to you than ever before, the quality and effectiveness of the work of the entire Supreme Council. I don't encourage you to sign alternate memoranda or other documents that are already well known. Let us simply follow the unwritten code of professional honor, orderlyness, and collegiate kindness. I address, first of all, those who see their basic political and creative resources as part of the unrelenting criticism of Parliament, which is part of itself. If it's just goodbye, it doesn't get better. We have the right and the right to say, and today and tomorrow we will not be ashamed to look at people in the face of the actions of the Supreme Council, especially in the recent period. And for not becoming a manipulative parliament. And because in the days of a truly political crisis, severe opposition has not failed in assessing the situation and choosing the means to normalize it, taking away from Ukraine the real threat of civil conflict. By not being tempted by the advice of outsiders, Parliament demonstrated and proved its independence, self - sufficient, and supreme state nature. I'm sure we can handle that line right now. Resisting today’s campaign of discrediting the Supreme Council and the unforgivable processes of the electoral race. The main thing is that people have the ability to make informed choices, and what they want today is a high forecast in the polling stations. In this regard, it is important that the Supreme Council has not succumbed to a traditional spell and has prevented itself from engaging in ritualistic procedures, as if aimed at ensuring fair, democratic and transparent elections, condemning and avoiding administrative resources. Look, as far as it goes, how much of this is said and written, and more than 80 percent of people still think that the next election is going to take place with the violations. Obviously, there are reasons for this. In order for words to continue to be consistent with real practice, we need to apply all parliamentary capabilities. I refer to them, in particular, to the establishment of a special commission to monitor the electoral process. I suggest that it be led by such respectable and authoritative people as George Kruczkov and Igor Juchnowsky. An additional guarantee of the objectivity of their work is that both have decided to complete their parliamentary work. I would also like to see representatives of civil society institutions in this committee: CEC, court, law enforcement authorities, of course, on their consent. Dear colleagues, a characteristic feature of today's situation, is that in our once-in-a-lifetime reformed haste, and therefore, far-unordered, a political-level debate on the powers and relations of the branches of power, the level of their responsibility for Ukraine's fate, is being intensified. Sometimes there is shaking and righteous anger in the voice, saying that national interests are being betrayed, that there is antinational activity and economic diversities, and everything else in the same key. There is no evidence that there is a crisis of governance in Ukraine that can turn into a crisis of statehood. It's time to finally come out of what responsibility involves, in addition to everything else, and the ability to make objective assessments, to admit their mistakes without concealing them or translating them into others, and to realize the need to tell the truth to society and to ourselves. Today, there is an incredible and unacceptable coalition in Ukraine: the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made an open and legal decision on the Cabinet of Ministers. For reasons that we all hope are understandable and obvious, it seems that nothing has happened. Moreover, there have been massive attacks on the highest representative body of the Ukrainian people in a style that inadvertently incurs bad associations with labels such as the fifth column, the “destructive anti-national forces” and so on. And, of course, with organized public condemnation. This war of words has already laid a mine under the future parliament, restricting or impeding the prospect of blocking, dialogue, and cooperation. In general, this is nothing more than a sign of a lack of adequate understanding and a civilized perception of the role of political and public institutions. We just have to admit that the Constitution in Ukraine is not working today. Subjectiveness, direction, and directives are more important, although it was said that there was no need to confuse the household with the authorities. Dear National Deputies! Today, we think of that peak moment where it is particularly necessary for both the consolidated position of Parliament and the ability to respond to the social need for stability and foresight in practical and effective actions in all directions of state and society development, and I wanted to emphasize this in particular, to write a score that would allow for the next composition of the Supreme Council to enter into full work organically. This requires, first, a decision from all the Presidential and Governmental Bills and ratifications of international agreements, as well as consideration of laws to which the President has applied the veto. Secondly, ask the Cabinet of Ministers to present the Ukrainian Economic and Social Development Programme for 2006 without replacing it with any surrogates. On this basis, work is being started on the integrated introduction of changes to the 2006 State Budget. Remembering that the subject of expensive labour and high social standards is to be given special meaning in Ukraine. Third. Analyse the implementation of the 2005 State Budget in a substantive and objective manner and the implementation of the 2006 State Budget. This is also necessary for society not to be forced into manipulations instead of obvious realities, so that the election budget is not confused, and they no longer view it as an electoral tool acting on principle: after March 26, even a flood. Four. Start to review the Codex Budget. We cannot continue to keep the areas, cities, and areas on short - term budget leave, seeking such loyalty to power. Fifth. To look at issues that have acquired special sound and become key factors in national security -- housing and utilities, agri-industrial complex, and energy. Alczewski is knocking at every locality today. It's an alarm signal for all of Ukraine. Six. To work out laws that are based on new constitutional realities. Especially the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, the referendum. Speed up work on the new Rules of the Supreme Council. They have to minimize the possible negative effects of elections. It is suggested that more than 450 questions be considered within two months. Half of them are of a clear socio-economic nature. Whomever we are, dear colleagues, can demonstrate that Ukraine can and should develop what is called, on a regular and predictable basis, on the basis of pragmatism, a sense of measure and common sense, without a constant return to the past and a review of its estimates, without impulsive reflections, from one vector to another as in internal and external politics. It is not clear that the recipe for national development should be sought, not by Chopo or Hutor Mikhailski, but by himself. They're in Ukraine, and they're in this room, and they're in the Bank, and they're in Gruszewski, and they're in the science and education and labor groups. It is in the hearts and thoughts of our people. It is not clear that a stormy country needs an immensely national consensus and understanding to build a decent life, rather than a failure to yet knock on the European door and exorcism the visa-free regime in the already overcrowded western direction. Can our public and social affairs benefit from an inexorable bribery that has not yet been implemented, but is the constitutional reform that has already been compromised? No, for fate puts too many different and, more importantly, incompatible concepts: the measure of social responsibility, the optimal distribution of authority, on the other hand, the ingrained tendency to act on the principle of an elder in a state. At the same time, Ukraine did not have an intelligent strategy for its development. We hope that the new Supreme Council will determine the principles of the internal and foreign policy of the state, and we will have to lay the groundwork for that. I say all of this with the realization that the political map of the Parliamentary Hall is unlikely to change significantly. Most of the time there will be refinements in its timetables and proportions, but it will be a completely different Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. As you know, the calendar schedule for the ninth session and the manner in which it is presented are adopted in the previous session. In line with the calendar plan for this week's session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode, so we need to move on to the issues identified today. We had such an offer on the Conciliation Council, honourable national MPs, that today we would anticipate the presentations of authorized representatives of MPs and factions with statements, reports, information, queries - in five minutes. Dear colleagues, we need to do this if you don't mind. Let's take the order of the day session now, and then vote for the performance today. Is there no objection? Dear National Deputies! On your proposals, the draft agenda for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call is being prepared. The agenda is followed by the refinements, additions, and suggestions made yesterday at the Conciliation Council, 450 questions. At the same time, there are a number of issues that raise some warnings in MP groups and factions. So we agreed in this way that we would first vote on the list that does not raise objections and then vote on the appendix that we have. Please, let's exchange our thoughts. Dear colleagues! Please sign up, five minutes, let us exchange our thoughts on this subject. Please sign in. Paul Sulkovski, faction of “Ukraine”. Who will act? Is Paul Sulkowski there? Please have one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You know, today, in summation of 2005 and to this day, we have to say directly and frankly that the citizens of Ukraine are really worried about the situation that has arisen today and during this reporting period in 2005. In fact, these two governments in 2005 and this year -- Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Yehanurova -- actually, they were worried about the Ukrainian society today, going to the constituency, really, especially the last, the villagers concerned about the situation in the village. In fact, the villagers are now practically concerned about what to do with the large cattle, where to this day the practically extra to the pensioner was before the pension of the miserable one, was additional.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski, microphone, please. Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u7	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u8	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u9	Simonenko. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we proposed, and yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I announced this, to exclude from the agenda 2040, 2040-1, 2040-2, 4205, 4456, 7543, 2395, 6013, such as those that violate constitutional law and 2050, and international law. These are the questions that we insist on putting into brackets the draft agenda as those that envision the rehabilitation of the UN-OPA. We warn that in this way Ukraine will, practically, put in place a procedure, and, practically, politics, the rehabilitation of neofascism. I can see that we have no right to allow anything like this to happen, and I ask you to exclude these questions from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u10	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! We just made a deal yesterday, I mean, I should have said it in the vote. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u11	Vassili Nadrag. People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! As the speaker rightly said, today we have 450 bills on our agenda that we should consider in the course of the last session, that is not enough to say that there are three full-time sessions left. It is therefore thought that, of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that these bills are considered. In particular, my draft decision of the Supreme Council on the situation in agriculture. I think we should take a look at this. We also need to consider the problems of gas. But on the other hand, it is absolutely right now that Vladimir Mikhailovich has proposed logic that those bills that are undeniable should be voted together, and that which is doubtful, let us vote in favour of the inclusion of the day gradually. In general, I wish to reiterate that the position of the deputies of the Lithuanian People's bloc is as follows. We believe that responsibility and consent is the main thing in the Supreme Council for our last session with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u12	Lilia Grigorovich, please, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since we have to write a score, as you said, for our successors, please pass the word to Boris Bezpaloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u14	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we propose that we address this issue in accordance with the Rules: first speak, then vote on the basis of what is proposed, then vote on the individual addition and removal, and then vote on it as a whole - it will be normal. [[There's a statement in there.]] First on the basis and then on completion and removal. In addition, our faction “Our Ukraine” proposes to include in the main text of the agenda bills: No. 3513 - Amendments to the Law on Prices and Price Creation, No. 2122-2 - The Single Social Tax Act, No. 3154 – The Basic Principles of State Control Act, No. 8125 – Simplification of entrepreneurship and No. 8737 – Amendments to the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u16	Please, Boris Jakovitch, pass me your offer. As far as walking under the Rules is concerned, we have not yet made a decision on the speeches. Tuesday, and we don't have a scheduled performance. If we make a decision, we will. Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u17	May I give the floor to the national deputy in the field?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u18	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, every time we consider the order of the day's session, the Communists give a list of questions they don't like, and every time we obediently go on this matter and rule out these questions. What kind of fascism are we talking about? This is a list of issues that the inclusion of in the agenda of the ninth session is proposed for the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine, the granting of the status of juvenile political prisoners. Please tell me, when we have granted the status of juvenile political prisoners in the concentration camps of the fascists, what we cannot do is what Russia, Belarus, has long done, which speaks of the Stalinic concentration camps. And so I would strongly support the proposal that just came out here, we vote for the basis, and then for the deletions that the Communists are offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We exchanged thoughts. In principle, we had such an agreement that we have three plenary weeks and we will set the schedule for each plenary week. If we have any questions that might lead to a misunderstanding, we will put these questions to the best of times. So I'm now proposing this approach, please pay attention, fellow Members, to vote, I'm going to put to the vote the entire package that is proposed for the agenda. If the Supreme Council makes a decision, we'll thank you for that decision. If not, then we will vote separately on the main part and what is involved in the apps against which the factions deny. Peter Mikolaiovich, just make it up. First of all, as we always do, I'm going to put it to the vote. If the Supreme Council doesn't accept it, then we vote. Peter Mikolaiovich, we voted like that last time, just the Supreme Council. I ask you, Peter Mikolaiovich, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support it, and then we voted separately and then we voted on the appendix. Please. That's why. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to listen carefully! Now I'm going to put it to a vote, given that committees and factions and groups have the right to submit their bills, the general draft agenda, including the main one and the supplement that is proposed to be removed. If the Supreme Council doesn't support this, then I'm going to put to the vote the main and separate voting appendices that are proposed to be removed. Do you understand the offer? Peter Mikolaiovich, this is what we did. Peter Mikolaiovich! For the reasons of the vote, please sign in for three minutes. Komar, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u21	I ask you to give the word to Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u22	Vladimir Pehota, please. Please, Vladimir Pehota. Vladimir Yuriovich, microphone. Come here, it'll be faster. Vladimir Yuriovich, come to the rostrum, it'll be faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u23	So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, our faction will maintain the order of the day. But we would ask those bills that have already voted three or four times in the hall and have received no support that is populist, which is tied only by elections and they bear nothing else. Therefore, these laws should not be included. For example, let me tell you. Here are three bills that are introduced: 8445, 8445-1 and 2. Four times we voted, we didn't get any support, these issues are dealt with in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u24	Vladimir Juryovich, you can agree politically and otherwise, but according to the Rules, this is a new session and drafts that have not been supported by insistence, they must be considered. Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u25	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to our leader of the Simonek faction Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u26	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction today is proposing not to vote in favour of those draft laws that the authors who are introducing think should eliminate the term of responsibility for the crimes they committed when, along with the Germans, they killed the Soviets. It's about rehabilitating fascist criminals. So we, the faction of Communists, and we insist that we do not include or vote on the basis of what Vladimir Mikhailovich suggests, once again, exclude 2040, 2040-1, 2040-2, 42.05, 4456, 7543, 2395, 6013, 2050. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist that this should be excluded. The Supreme Council has no right to vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u28	Please welcome the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u29	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues! We talked to you about this being the last session of this assembly. And I told you that in this case, we just have to be responsible for our responsibilities. What are we debating? Let's just vote. We had another discussion, and we spent time discussing infertilely what was being done by pressing the button. That's why I'm gonna do it again. The Deputies of the People's bloc of Lithuania believe that we must get to work. And, instead of debating now, let us vote on what procedure we will consider. If not, we will talk again about the situation as a whole and specific questions. I therefore take it again, and I call on the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, on behalf of them: let us proceed to the vote, not to discuss how we will vote and whether we will vote at all. We're gonna vote back, and it's gonna be clear who wants what and who wants what and who wants who does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u30	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u31	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”, representative of President Viktor Yushchenk in the Supreme Council. Well, first of all, I want to point out that the Communist faction is misleading voters. These are bills that, for example, refer to the status of juvenile political prisoners. Since when, Peter Mikolaiovich, did the minors do something there? Or, let's say, the deported Ukrainians were 45-51 years old. What were the fascists in our territory at that time? So let us not lie. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that in this list of issues that are not individual factions, but one faction has a warning, there are two bills that are defined by the President as urgent. This is his constitutional right, and for that reason there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. In any case, these two bills cannot be the object of arbitrary desires of the Communist factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u32	Yeah, time's up. I can't. What? Assadchev. What? Well, why don't you sign up? Well, what can I do? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u33	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it seems to me that in shaping the agenda it is necessary simply for each faction to receive a guaranteed right to speak. Then all questions will be answered. Because because of the recording, in fact, the faction gets rid of the right to speak out of the question of the order of the day. Now essentially. Even in your speech today, you said that the Budget Code should be considered. We talked about this yesterday at the Conciliation Council. True, but he was not in the daytime, nor was he, nor was he included in the 3,700 - year draft of the Codex Budget. Then our faction asked, we filed a whole list of drafts, we registered another January 31st, they didn't go into the agenda again. We asked yesterday, let's put it in the line of work. These are normal absolutely bills. But they weren't included again. So we ask very much, given what the Ukrainian People's Party has proposed, the faction should be included in the agenda and also in the budget code 3700. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u34	I wrote down the budget code, Valery Mikhailovich. Well, the point is, when you say, well, where the offer is, you have to make that offer. No one's giving it away. Your last name wasn't mentioned, please. Melniczuk, please. Well, I beg you, dear fellows, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u35	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have addressed you several times. However, if it's given from the motivation to write, it's not three minutes, but give at least half the factions that are present in the room to say at least 10 minutes. As for the daily routine, I am asked to consider in this session bill 8599 on forests of municipal and private property. This is true of forests that were formerly farmed so that territorial communities could have the right to use them. Because the forest code that we will consider tomorrow does not answer these questions. There's a very different standard. There are all the forests within the population, and there are no ex - farm forests within the population. They're off-site. I would like this to be considered and included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u36	I beg you, Peter Mikolaiovich, you are not alone in the hall. You'll be finished, then you'll speak. Please, Peter, let's do it sometime. I can hear you, especially you. Catherine Seed, Peter, please. Oleg Petrov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I very much ask you to stop on such a principled question. We've been here for a few years, it's from the third vocation, we're looking at the draft of the Law, it's adopted in the first reading, it's the state regulation of the release and the conduct of the lottery of the money games. He does not go in today, so, in the fifth convocation, we need to consider this law? Although Law 8021, which now applies to tax on lottery activities, is being considered. So let's look at the basic law, let's take, let's put, as they say, dots over "and," let's do this question. Please turn it on. Including the Law on the Honorary Name of the Airman-Cosmonaut of Ukraine, we have one cosmonaut, and we have a student self-governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u38	We're done here. The replica. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u39	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I submitted this proposal to the Conciliation Council yesterday. On the Conciliation Board, I didn't meet you the way you didn't say someone was against you. But according to your signature as the Head of the Supreme Council and it's written, it's submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council, it's given us the draft Order of the Day. And I read in this order the daily draft laws on the definition of a warring party in the Second World War of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. [[It's 2050.]] What are we going to admit that they fought on the side of the fascists and we're going to give them benefits? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we didn't agree on this with you yesterday, but your signature stands for this bill being tabled. That's why I insist that we have no right with you when we talk about joining Europe today in Ukraine to revive neo-fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been exchanging thoughts for reasons of vote. Once again, I would like to explain, the honourable national deputies, in accordance with the Rules, each faction must submit its proposals to the agenda, and the Supreme Council should obviously consider them. So I'm going to put a whole document to the vote first. If the Supreme Council does not make a decision, then I will put to the vote with the exceptions proposed by the Communist faction, which will be objective and fair. Well, I'd like to have your attention again! Well, I'll tell you what.Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you. Valerius Mikhailovich! Assadchev! I'd like to remind you that your proposals are taken into account, so I'd like to ask the MPs to take a look at this document, let's say page 18, that's where it's all accounted for. And those that weren't included were proposals for socio-economic laws that were made by Boris Bespalog yesterday, let's take them into account, including proposals made by other colleagues, if they're ready, including by Deputy Petrov. With this in mind, dear colleagues, I would like to be very careful about voting first to approve the full document, the complete draft agenda for the ninth session. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. This document I'm putting in full. [[10:42:26]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Areas 1, Communist 0, National Party 4, Our Ukraine 34, Block Timoshenko 34, SPI 2, National Block 4, SDPU(o)-0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, Rebirth – 4, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, Reforms and Orders – 14, Ukraine – 3, non-fractional – 10. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote this draft with the deletions that are listed in the document, plus the 2050 bill. With the law's appendix, 2050. It's an deletion. This included what was proposed by national deputies who did not raise objections: both Bespaliah, Asadchev, and Petrov. And Melniczuk. I said, "Infantry." Please vote. [[10:43:36]] For 228 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 55, Communist 54, National Party – 39, "Our Ukraine", Block Timoshenko – zero, SPI – 27, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) - 18, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, "Rebirth" – 1, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 5, National Movement, "Reforms and Order", "Only Ukraine" – zero, non-fractional – 8. Dear colleagues, we've made our decision, but let's make sure that we have to look at all the bills. The other thing is how the Supreme Council will determine them. I think we need to agree on these issues at the Conciliation Council so that we don't have to fight them. We will consider and implement the initiative of the national deputies. But the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now I'm going to put it separately. Or maybe we don't want to vote now, we'll make a reconciliation, because we won't get the result. What do you think, dear colleagues? Well, shall we vote? Or will we make a reconciliation in order to find an acceptable solution? No, we must now vote separately, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda of a separate supplement, these are bills, I'll read the numbers: 2040, 2040-1, 2040-2, 4205, 4456, 7543, 2395, 6013, 2050. I'll just ask for the Keykovsky Jury, and it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I urge you once again to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Bill 2040-2 and Bill 2395 were defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is responsible for implementing the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is obliged to consider them in the first order. And you're asking if you're going to include them in the day-to-day order. This is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask you to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u42	Come on, your honor, let's make the right decision. Don't blame anyone for violating the Constitution. My position is to look at all the bills. Yuri Bogdanovich, please listen. But right when I asked for my opinion, you know, about the regulation, there was a variation, saying it was a government bill. Let's give them, I mean, this is the MP's bill. Let's not put them to a vote right now, just the legal department will make a decision. If this position you're talking about is in the regulation, there's no problem. But the Constitution doesn't say that, Yuri Bogdanovich. Well, I'm asking you, well, let's find out. I'm in, well, let's find out that there's no resistance. So we will not vote on those bills that the President has defined as urgent. As we will find out, we will automatically transfer them to the section “For consideration” – everything, and there are no questions. Yes, dear colleagues, considering this Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is clear that you will now put to the vote, and these questions will not pass. It's not going to happen at least because you're calling for us to vote for the agenda as it is for the factions, but the factions that support you personally don't vote for it. I'm only saying this for the one thing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've had a very good idea that we should agree that the issues proposed by the factions have necessarily been dealt with, the other questions -- what will be the solution. So I'm asking you not to put this not to vote right now, but on such condition that no later than Thursday we vote between the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to do it again. Well, that's enough, we're done here. I ask once again that we be as abstract as possible from where the faction belongs. I am not saying that “Our Ukraine” did not have ten votes. Well, I asked. I don't have my factions. I want us to make all the decisions so we can look at any legislative initiative of the national MPs. And I suggested that tomorrow at the Conciliation Council, let's make arrangements to have an understanding, to include these issues in the agenda, or whether the Supreme Council will look at them or not, is already the will of the Supreme Council. But the fact that the Supreme Council accepted these documents for production. Right? That's a moral factor that needs to work. That's why I'm here. Then we don't vote now, and then we agree on their position. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now putting to the vote the proposal that we now amend our Rules so that Tuesday there will be speeches by the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions with statements, reports, information. For each performance, once again, a departure from the Rules, up to five minutes. Tomorrow we're just going to make a written request to the MPs. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:49:34]] For 257 Decision taken. I'm asking the factions to sign up. Let's do this automatically. From each faction to one person, five minutes. Please. Change the record. Let's do it on demand. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to make an application, come on. Jaroslav Kenzior gave it to me first. Please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Jaroslav Kenzier is invited to the presentation. Please prepare, who is there? Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u45	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters. You know, in recent days, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been discussing the issue of eliminating the legacy of the former communist totalitarian regimes. As we begin today's session, we have again felt the relevance of this problem when the descendants of the former red Moscow Communist regime still feel at ease in our independent Ukrainian state and then dictate practical conditions in the Ukrainian Parliament. All right, here we go, rowers. What does the Council of Europe Resolution say? Last century’s ruling totalitarian Communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe, which still prevail in several countries of the world, were characterized by massive human rights violations. The violations varied according to the culture of countries, the historical period and included mass killings and executions, deaths in concentration camps, including the Stalinese Communist camps, destroyed them from hunger, deportation, torture, slave labor and other forms of mass physical terror, ethnic and religious persecution, violations of freedom of conscience, thoughts and words, freedom of speech, media, and the lack of political pluralism. Crimes were justified in the name of the theory of class struggle and the proletariat dictatorship, and the interpretation of both principles justified the extermination of people who were viewed as damaging to the construction of a new so - called society and were essentially considered enemies of totalitarian Communist regimes. The fall of totalitarian communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe was not accompanied in all cases by the international investigation of the crimes committed by them. Moreover, the initiators of these crimes were not brought to justice by an international community, as was the case with the horrendous crimes committed by fascism, national socialism, Nazism. So the trial and the investigation, and the court, the punishment for the crimes of red communist fascism in the former Soviet Union, are still awaiting us. Moreover, the Assembly believes that those victims of the crimes of totalitarian Communist regimes that are still alive, and part of them here, in our sessional hall, because their families deserve because families of victims of repression deserve compassion, understanding and recognition of their suffering. And today, honourable friends, honourable voters, when we put in order, wanted to put into order the daily question of aid, the rehabilitation of victims of Communist Stalinist repression, the faction of Communists, its leader Simonenko, did everything possible to ensure that even minor political prisoners born in the Stalinese camps did not receive adequate State support. Thus, the Parliamentary Assembly strongly condemns mass violations of human rights by totalitarian Communist regimes and expresses the sympathy, understanding and recognition of the victims of these crimes. Moreover, it urges all Communist or post-communist parties in the states, members who have not yet done so, to overestimate the history of communism. What is its own and its own past and clearly separate itself from these crimes, something the branch of the Moscow Communist Party and its factions in the Ukrainian Parliament would not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u46	Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Next up is Oreste Dmitrovich Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u47	Dear national MPs, TV sets, radio audiences! The faction points out that the state now exists in the form of a parliamentary-presidential republic, and the elections that will take place on 26 March should open a new page in the organization of state government in the upper echelon of this administration. And that is why we today need to prepare and adopt laws to prepare for such a situation. It's the Cabinet of Ministers Act, it's ready, and the task force has completed its consideration. On Thursday he will be placed on a temporary special commission as a subject of discussion and the next Tuesday he may be voted on, at least in the first reading, and in fact he must be accepted definitively, so that there will be no questions as to what the Cabinet of Ministers should be doing, how he should be shaped, what functions he would have with the Prime Minister, ministers and what relations would take place, particularly between Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. The Presidential Act must also be adopted. Overcoming the President's veto to the State Property Fund Act. It's just a crime that the previous President and today's President have three vetoes on this law, because it's obviously continuing in some practice or intent to continue the practice of property relations to manage and regulate them on the basis of phone calls, specific interests, mercantile interests of specific people -- it's just unacceptable things. We have prepared, registered in the secretariat a draft Supreme Council decision to amend the Rules on how to form a coalition of parliament. This must be done today in order not to look for mechanisms, tools, and tools to improve the work of parliament, which will have the rights of the majority, which it assumes, the obligations it assumes, and the rights it will have. So I would ask for careful attention to this matter, and this would be more important than any discussion of faction contracts, among the constituencies of the electoral campaign, and it would be necessary to clearly identify the functions of each entity, each subject, who will be represented in Parliament and can thus stand up for himself. Obviously, we're going to have to listen here in the near future if, this week, information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state of affairs in the energy complex, particularly in the gas industry. And the faction today has been discussing this issue, our members of factions such as Vladimir Seminovich Boyko, insist that it may be possible to create at a higher level now under the leadership of the Prime Minister an anti-crisis commission, which will consider the situation not only in the gas economy, and in the economy because it is about a fall in gross product, which changes all parameters and socio-economic parameters, and, in particular, budgetary parameters, is a matter of principle, and we need the Supreme Council to deliberately analyse the situation that is now being created and to draw the right conclusions. Similarly, it is necessary to remove the artificial tension that exists in society today, and it is linked to an election campaign, not to settle accounts with one another, for that will not be beneficial. I'm here, in particular, touching a previous speech that doesn't really reflect the essence of things, but it's only meant to provoke opposition in society. You don't have to build a campaign at the expense of confrontation, you have to think about the perspective of the state, because we're responsible for this perspective. It seems to me that we have every opportunity to demonstrate the concrete work of every political force, every faction, every MP represented in Parliament today, to address citizens today, taking into account the complexities that have arisen in society today, to bring together this society and to achieve the results that people need. This is absolutely necessary, and there should be no propaganda campaigns here, especially so that it does not come from television screens and from radio broadcasters evil against each other, because it does not benefit any society. In this sense, I can only say that our political party, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is going with a constructive program, not touching competitors without black pianist, anti-propaganda. We're talking about what we've done, what we're going to do, what we're going to do in society. I think that's what people need today, and that's what they're waiting for. And finally, using the moment, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Ukraine has become a full member of Socitern and I think this is a significant event in the political life of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u48	Orest Dmitrovitch Klimpus from the “Rebirth” MP group is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u49	Orest Klimpush, faction of the Political Party of Rebirth. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, dear compatriots. During the break in Parliament, the Rebirth Party faction actively worked and participated in the most important social processes. We need to inform our voters and the public about the events of the last days that concern society. In particular, information sources do not always objectively highlight the state’s extraordinary situations. We can be sure of this by carefully examining reports regarding the response and solution to the situation in Alcevsk. Regrettably, the people left behind, the forces who took responsibility, adopting concrete, effective decisions that really help the inhabitants of Alcevska. If a politician comes to the scene of a disaster on one working day, he makes loud statements and then returns to his warm office, which does not mean that specific residents have received specific help. People's deputies from the Rebirth faction have proved themselves worthy of this situation. Reacted quickly and effectively in difficult circumstances. The faction met for an emergency emergency meeting during which the deputies discussed the situation in Luhansk. A decision has been made to create a post in Alcev, a deputy, which would control the maintenance of the heat grid and whether Alcevska's residents are being given sufficient assistance. Henady Astrov-Shumilov, a member of the Rebirth faction, rushed there. This was not a tribute to the conjunctural fashion of following the President to the disaster scene of the high - crew. The decision of the “Resurrection” MP is prompted by the desire and willingness to help people who have lost electricity in a 30-degree frost. The Rebirth faction, for its part, fully supports the Crossroads initiative for deployment to Alcevsk and has already sent a team of more than two thousand experts who are doing urgent work there. We are convinced that today, members of the Rebirth Party are the largest group in the disaster response. True, the Crucifixion Unit is currently doing liquidation work at its own expense, but we are convinced that their funds should be reimbursed. In addition, railways have offered to use their health facilities in Crimea, the Carpathians, and daily to these sanatoriums from the frozen Alcevska. But please tell us how many Ukrainian cities and towns have found themselves in a similar situation. When they suffer from colds, how many casualties did winter bring? Events in Ordjonikidze and other localities during the next cooling show that there is a systemic crisis in the residential economy. Apparently, the winter returned unexpectedly, unexpectedly, unexpectedly, unexpectedly, and unexpectedly. But in fact, the state has not taken care of its citizens, the most vulnerable, the homeless, who die on the streets and are unsecured by social housing and warmth. The faction of the Political Party “Rebirth considers that the time has come for officials and the state to take responsibility for the events, and the number of victims is unacceptably great. This question is so important that it is worthy of special consideration by the National Security and Defence Council. But the most pressing problem that needs to be addressed urgently at the legislative and governmental levels needs to be changed in terms of how this system works and how it is financed. The time has come for the final identification of the responsible, responsible authorities of local self - government, the population to be able to objectively assess their actions on the eve of the elections, as well as to evaluate properly the actions of transporters who have demonstrated their active assistance to those affected by the disaster, which has occurred more than once, especially in their own time in Zacarpat. The Rebirth Party expresses its appreciation for the large number of members involved in the elimination of the effects of the Alchevsk thermal accident. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u50	Thank you, Orestes Dmitrovich. Michael Petrovich Noshchenko is invited to prepare Valeria Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters! Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, “Litvina People’s Block”. Since January 1, this year, the country has turned over another page, becoming a parliamentary-presidential republic. The balance of power between Parliament, President, Government, and Parliament has changed, stopping the government from doing harm to every Ukrainian family. But then it started, as they say, white, white, black, black, white. I hold a newspaper in my hands, which for a week, every day, it's released on January 15, but every day it's put in my box, where society's informed and called for anarchy and decisive action. Ours will kill the dragon. Who is this dragon? I read an editorial: “And the one who pretended to be a third power and who really wanted only one - person authority, like Lithuania. That besides the desire to regain power and money, Ukraine is in an era from which. This Regulation shall Dirty lies on the front page, on the second page. “They betrayed you and Ukraine.” There's my last name. What did they betray you for? “They resigned the government that protected you and gave you a warm home.” Heat in the house! It's a lie that overwhelmed the lies of Germany in the 1930s! Today, when you put 95 dollars in gas instead of 50 dollars in gas, it's credited as heroism. It's a disgrace. Next. Custom for Ukraine ice cream. These are words from the President's address on Alchevska's occasion, where the government got a fat two again. The question is: What, the government did not know that Ukraine had not approached the equator? What's warmer and warmer than it's ever been? Why didn't the government make a decision to prepare the people's agriculture for work during the fall-winter period? Why is there no change in the 2006 budget for this purpose? Is it someone who should be doing it because of the boogeyman? This should be predicted by the government along with the local leaders. Or was there not enough skill and experience for field managers? Next. Successive action is being pursued, and the actions of Parliament, which are taken in spite of the will of the government, are not being carried out. For example. From the initiative of the Lithuanian People's bloc, the 2006 budget provides 2 billion people. In addition to the government's offer to support the producer. It's coming out soon. There's no change in place. Not a hectare of sown osmium, not a kilogram of produced produce. One explanation: there is no order of distribution. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, please assemble the government in extraordinary mode and accept order. Thousands of farmers look forward to this. It's the same position as the 5 billion we predicted for the local budgets. The budgets of the rural, rural, urban councils of the district of Suma so far have not received any government support. And finally, I'd like to ask you one more question. If we've admitted, and it's true that the parliamentary-presidential republic has come together, there is a request, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, to you, to give an order to release the new Constitution immediately, not the one we received before the holidays, where the dots were instead of the amendments. Who has given permission, a minister of justice, or a minister of justice? Of course, they do not like making changes. And the second. If it's that sharp, put it to a vote on resigning the government, and it's like that again. Finish this question. Because today those whom we have dismissed continue to sign documents that are not always for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u52	Valerius Assadchev of the Ukrainian People’s Party is invited to prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u53	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Block, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha Dear friends, I honestly thought that the problem that happened in Alcevsk would somehow reconcile us all, because it wasn't just this winter. If, from a large point of view, from a historical point of view, it started in the 17th year, when rubber hearings began to disappear in our driveways and goes to this day, even in an independent Ukraine, this issue was practically never taken seriously in Parliament, let alone in terms of budget problems. And maybe Alcevsky will make us really talk about these problems at this last session. And that's what they came up with. And it is that today, without exception, all the local budgets, even those as powerful as the Kiev budget, do not have real funds to maintain their communal economy. I'm not saying it's not reformed anymore, but even the existing one doesn't really have any funds. In the vast majority of budgets, 90-95, or 100 percent of the budget, are just spending on current payments that the central government should have been worried about. So we insist that a new edition of the Budget Code be considered. I want to remind you, by the way, that the current edition of the Budget Code, which led to Alcevska and to all the problems, was still developed by Yulia Timoshenko. What we're offering besides that. We believe that all the moratoriums imposed by the Supreme Council on tariffs should be urgently abolished, because the moratorium on tariffs applies not only to low-income but also to rich population categories. Many categories of people also pay meager tariffs for the use of utilities. The practice of granting benefits to wealthy citizens and millionaires should be halted, as was the case with the "Children of War" Act, when small-scale categories were combined with millionaires, and the benefits were granted on utility payments, and the same benefits were granted. And finally, the immediate monetaryization of the benefits has to begin. By the way, Russia has already done all this work, and it is time for Ukraine and Ukraine to make monetary payments. As far as utilities are concerned. We need to immediately start the process of opening accounts to store depreciation deductions to keep our houses. After the depreciation deductions in cooperative homes and others disappeared, no one really cared about the problem. We should very clearly determine who is the owner of the house, who is the manager of the house, and who is the provider of utilities. Sadly, we have never adopted a normal Housing Code that addresses all these problems. And speaking in the context of these problems about the deal that was signed with Russia by gas, I want to say that we didn't come up here without illusions. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has ratified a very good energy paper in its time. This energy charter has been ratified by virtually all European countries. But the agreement that was signed with Russia unfortunately did not take into account or take into account this energy charter. And I would like to turn from the Kostenka Block, the Ivy to the government, so that when these agreements are signed, there is definitely a standard contained in the energy charter, which is supported by all European societies. And finally, I want to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know what happened to the National Deputy John Zayer, he's in the hospital right now, and we'd ask very, very much, thank God, everything is fine with health, but the problems are and are serious. And we would very much ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to give the Supreme Council a mandate and investigate the matter, because we've already had a lot of problems with transportation. It was the fault of another car that went into the lane, and we would like this incident to be investigated very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u54	Thank you. I, my dear colleagues, would like to inform you that I had a conversation with John Alexanderovich, who is in the hospital, a condition that is difficult but stable. I asked for help from the Supreme Council. I'm going to have to ask them to prepare an address for the Ministry of Internal Affairs today. But so that the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not begin to treat as they do that some politicians will organize attacks. Then we can bring up the same absurd idea where a peaceful national MP and a car jumped out. I would then ask all, especially government officials, to hold on to the comments and prepare an appropriate address to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm asking the Secretariat to do this. Please, Vasil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u55	Thank you. Calinchuk, Clothing, faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today on February 7th. In the week of the Lord's Crushing, followed by the beginning of the spring-field work. However, the peasant does not rejoice over the spring. They're desperate. Autumn droughts, extremely bitter frosts throughout Ukraine, have done their black work. It is not excluded that many winters will have to be sifted. But this is not the concern of farmers, but of moneylessness. Today, they do not have funds for fertilizer, soil seeds, and fuel. You don't have to talk about the state of the art, it's all on the ropes. But not to determine the obvious fact that the faction of the Lithuanian People's bloc authorized me to make that statement. We are concerned and outraged by the very inadequate position of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. It seems that Mr. Baranowski’s offices in the capital Christian are living on a different calendar, and the minister himself does not care as much about the sower as he does about the harvest in the elections. Everyone in this room knows how we fought for a tenth of the village's budget in this year. With great effort, we have succeeded in convincing the government and making a substantial increase in the financing of the agricultural sector. For the first time, the state’s financial census provided an address for a sower’s acre of grains, government payments for each produced and sold kilograms of meat, and a liter of milk. And we cannot accept how the irresponsibility of senior officials blocks the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2006. It's been January. The first decade of February ends, but so far there has not been a single penny of production for some reason, either for sown osmium or for meat and milk. The reason for the axis is banal. It turns out that Minfin doesn't finance the village because the government didn't approve the procedure for the application of subsidies to be developed by the Ministry of Profitability. No such document has yet been issued. Who, let me ask, should be responsible for the service if you want, politically? Since the losses of this negligence are not ephemeral, they are real, since the grant money for most farms, which because of the underprivileged policy of power on the grain market instead of profit, could have suffered severe damage. People were waiting for them. The villagers waited for the state and the promised tax credits. We didn't wait! Everything is expensive: fertilizer, sown materials, diesel fuel, parts only of the village’s production is again at a price. The situation has been electrified in recent times by the actual closure of the Russian market for Ukrainian dairy products. Internal purchases of milk and meat fall every day, forcing people to put under the skin of a calf because of the inconvenience. No one will produce milk for themselves. Thus, animals are subjected to another blow. Every day, because of the embargo on Russians, Ukrainian producers lose about 10 billion dollars in profits. What kind of economy can take that kind of abuse? Although this situation could be controlled immediately. And it's not too late to do that today. First of all, the State must urgently grant subsidies to agricultural producers for at least 40 copies per liter of milk produced. In order to replenish the national reserve, adequate financial resources must be allocated. This would benefit all, including animal producers, processors, and consumers. At the same time, animal products that are close to completion could, at accepted prices, be implemented in the internal consumer market. Is it possible to address Russian-Ukrainian trade problems by relying on the Department of Veterinary Medicine? First of all, the head of government and head of state, not the chief veterinarian, should seek understanding with the Russians, as though we had no respect for them. The format of the statement does not allow for a detailed analysis of other serious management calculations in the agricultural sector, but is also mentioned above enough for Parliament to require an explanation essentially from the minister of the agro-industry complex, Mr. Baranowski. The faction of the People’s Block of Lithuania insists on such a meeting. Adequate draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of affairs in the agro-industry complex, preparation for spring-field work and anti-crisis measures in the agro-industry industry we have prepared. This project has been introduced into the agenda of this session. Let's take a look. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u56	Mikola Komar, “Ukraine” faction, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine will not vote in favour of Laws 8445, 45-1 and 45-2. And also, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think that we should not include in the agenda those bills that conflict with the Constitution. On this issue is the decision of the Constitutional Court. That is, if even 450 MPs vote or all the vocations vote right away, for this law, it won't work. Why put it in order of the day? We're protesting. Well, another question on a day's work is Alcevsk. This question would, of course, have to be considered, first of all, because the question of Alcevski was not merely a disaster in Alcevska and an explosion in Luhansk. The situation, which in times of peace, without bombs and the front, is being evacuated by entire cities, is being carried out by the echelons of children, nothing but insurrection and insurrection. It is asked where was the President, the Council of Naz Security, the relevant Ministry and Department of the Spring and Spring last year, which the governors were finally doing, why was it that the Cabinet of Ministers had not passed its decree for the first time in the history of Ukraine on the preparation for the winter? In recent times, there has been a clear trend: everything should be done after the thunder. The gas contract was concluded, not last summer, but in winter. Such a government know-how that enterprises do not know the price of gas in advance. In housing and utilities, the situation is similar. And it's not winter's fault. Unprofessional, mindless leadership, stupidity and confidence of the leaders at the bottom. The principle of the orange team “when we resist – we understand” does not work even in the colossal brigade, and there will be many tragedies if the Supreme Council does not make an adequate decision. Let's go back to Alchevsk. Today, the President has already appointed the chief culprit, Nikolai Kirichenko, the city head. In 2004, 17 million were needed to repair housing and water supply systems, 2 out of the 23 million required in 2005. Funded just over 600,000. What the city council did in these circumstances was a city head who had underfunding equal to the almost annual budget of Alcevska. Right, he was knocking on the door of the highest court. On 15 November 2004, to the Office of the President, on 24 February 2005, to Governor Danelov, on 23 March 2005, to Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, on 22 August 2005, personally to the President of Ukraine, who commissioned Kabmin and set a weekly deadline. 4 October 2005 - Referral to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the city's head, I quote. “This attitude on the part of the State in the allocation of budgetary resources will lead to an emergency”. The comments are superfluous. It was like looking at a city's head. He's in the hospital right now, and he can't stand the heart of a man who's giving himself to the city. It is a matter of reflection with which the President, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Governor, representatives of the owners of the combination are hesitant about the city's head, requiring him to resign. But I'm sorry, two months before the election. What's the big deal? Everything was explained by direct Governor Moskal, who said that if Kirichenko had not led the city party of the Regions, there would have been no accident. By the way, they weren't here until Moscal arrived in Luhansk. Actually, the mayor's vanity is accompanied by some kind of mysticism. A terrible tragedy, an explosion of two houses in Luhansk, has killed people, and many have been seriously traumatized. At night, there was a tragedy, and by morning, officials had reported its causes without expertise, without proper investigation. It's like we're living in an absurd theater, dancing under the music of political disc jockeys, and we can't imagine what tomorrow will be. In connection with this, I request the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the request for a deputy. First. Establish a temporary investigation commission to investigate the cause, circumstances of the Alchevsk disaster, Luhansk. Second. The Office of the Attorney-General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Procurator-General, conduct an investigation into the activities of the executive branch. Third. To request the Central Electoral Commission to give legal assessment to the actions of the President and the Vice-Prime Minister, Minister Baloga, Governor of Moscow, who is putting pressure on the candidate to serve as deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u58	Oleg Belarusianus is invited to the presentation by the faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Prepare Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u59	Honourable National MPs, Ukrainian citizens, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko today discussed the situation in Ukraine in detail and asked me to tell you about it. Speaking from the strategic positions of national and state solidarity, with the support of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, speaking in defence of Ukraine's new Constitution, Yulia Timoshenko's "Clock of Yulia" appeared on February 6th with a new initiative and proposed an agreement on the establishment of a coalition of democratic forces in the Fifth Council of Ukraine. The leader of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, by publicly proclaiming this project, which you can all get to know through the Internet and here in the hall, says that it is necessary to stop any bids on the distribution of posts before the elections and the post of division after the election results of obtaining mandates from the people. This will be fair and fair. This will be the result of popular will. In favour of the constructive contribution of our faction to the establishment of cooperation between all branches of power and in defending the just decisions of the Supreme Council on the resignation of the government of Yuri Yehanurov, we propose to immediately submit to the agenda and to vote a bill initiated by our faction that removes the inviolability of deputies of all levels and first of all deputies of the local councils, because otherwise Ukraine awaits the total criminalization of the local councils of the people's deputies. Dear National Deputies! The latest events in Ukraine, namely: the signing of a contract for the creation of a joint Naftogazu NAK by the Russian-Ukrainian closed stockholders association “Ukrgazenergo” only confirmed the effectiveness of the Supreme Council when the government resigned. The best traditions of the government’s latest practice, the people of Ukraine today remain deceived, and none of the signatories to this secret agreement considers it necessary to familiarize themselves with its contents, neither the Supreme Council nor the citizens of Ukraine. Six months from now, Ukraine will be bankrupt and flee to neighbouring countries, and Ukraine will remain vulnerable. Today, we do not know exactly what is written in the seven documents that are appendices to the Agreement. And there are a number of agreements that are kept in the complete so - called commercial secret, which are unknown even to members of the government who have protested against such unprecedented practices in the world. Today it is more than obvious that the level of surrender of national interests, the interests of the people of Ukraine, the level of surrender, the subversion of Ukraine's energy and economic security is higher than we anticipated. The energy crisis associated with the shameful January 4th Agreement on the so - called conditions for gas supply in Ukraine is developing in our worst case scenario. The question is, why is the tariff on gas transit fixed at a low level of $1.6 per thousand cubes across Ukraine for a hundred kilometers, when Slovakia takes 17 dollars of tariff per thousand cubic miles per hundred kilometers. And when the whole world lives by tariffs 10 times higher, what is that? This is an attempt to capture the gas transit system, forcing Ukraine to maintain this transit route.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u60	Yes, thank you. Lies down Grigorovich, thank you. Nestor Shufric is invited from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine to prepare Yuri the Robot. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u61	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Declaration of the “NOT YES Opposition Block!” regarding the situation in Alchevsk and the priorities of state policy. The disaster in Alchevsk and Alexandria, now in Ordjonikidze, in several inhabited areas of Crimea, is directly threatening the health and perhaps the lives of several tens of thousands of people, and indirectly, several tens of millions. We should take into account that basic technological schemes and communications have been established since Soviet times, and their resources have been exhausted or almost complete. So a similar catastrophe could happen anywhere, but in the Ukrainian conditions of today's power, the pipes that happened in Alcevsk and Alexandria are becoming a national catastrophe. “The opposition block is NOT so!” reminds us that in 2004, the government allocated for the first time in years from the budget to warn about emergency situations in housing and utilities. The amount of these funds in 2004 was 920 million dollars, a similar amount was foreseen in our 2005 State Budget project, but this is where the so-called “national” revolution happened and the new government eliminated all the funds for these tasks. [[in quotes]] The average pays twice. Instead of repairing the pipes during the summer, emergency relief measures are now needed. It is a good thing that Yushchenko decided to provide humanitarian assistance to Georgia, where the situation was approaching a general national disaster. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial But why he failed to provide timely assistance to Ukrainians from Alcevsk, Alexandria, Crimea, and Ordjonikidze, other regions of Ukraine. When Yushchenko arrived in Alchevsk, he found nothing better than recommending the city’s mayor to resign. At the same time, he did not know whether he had deliberately forgotten that the money had been allocated, but the government had turned it over to another article. The faction of the united Social Democrats and the Opposition Block No Yes states: authorities today do not control the situation in the country and at the same time do not understand what the real priorities of state policy are. At a time when millions of Ukrainians are not faced with problems such as the warning of residential accidents, the authorities are dealing with secondary matters that are harmful to Ukraine: street names, NATO weeks, and so on. Such inadequacy of authority results in catastrophes similar to those that took place in Alexandria and Alcevsk. It should be noted that the State budget for 2006, according to the protocol signed by Ukraine, has allocated the first 2 billion dollars to Ukraine. a $90 billion bracelet that we have pledged to send to NATO for “adaptation”. I will be frank: NATO Ukraine is not needed and free of charge. I'd rather have that $2 billion. The bracelets were designed to prepare for the winter. There is no Kabmin decision to prepare for the heating season. It's never been like this. I received a reply from Acting Prime Minister Ehanurov, where he did not hide that he did sign a contract for the construction of a nuclear waste storage zone in Chernobyl in December. True, it says it will be nuclear waste from Ukrainian nuclear stations. We know exactly where these nuclear stations are. They are in France, Hungary, Italy, Spain. And all this “atomic debris” will be buried on the shore of Dniepra, on the shore of St. Slavucci, as Yushchenko likes to say today. For the first time in 15 years of independence, respected fellow countrymen have witnessed the greatest tragedy today. The authorities simply cannot guarantee the security and preservation of the lives of our citizens. We've lived a very difficult 15 years of independence. We have lived 15 winters of independence. We have had isolated tragedies, but we have never lost hundreds of our citizens in one winter to the cold. 738 lives are the cost of the immobility and irresponsibility of today's power. These deaths on their conscience. We have always understood the tragedies that have taken place everywhere in the world, including abroad. I suggest a minute of silence to honor your memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u62	Yes, I beg of you, honourable national deputies, sit down, please. And I'd like more order, Nestor Ivanovich. You can control yourself in factions. Please, Yuri Orobec is invited to the presentation, the “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u63	Reference to the Federal Meeting of the Russian Federation on the prohibition of imports into Russian territory of animal products from Ukraine Dear colleagues, with the election of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka, the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation has become a qualitatively new form. In fact, this has been demonstrated on a number of occasions by the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, in his speeches to the media. The transition to exclusive market relations between our countries shows the desire of the governments of both countries to promote the economic stability of the Russian Federation and Ukraine and to build further external economic relations on a partnership and mutually beneficial basis. The Interfractional Union “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council is asking you to take immediate action by the parliaments of both countries to resolve the issue of banning the importation of animal products from Ukraine into the territory of the Russian Federation. Since January 20, 2006, the government of the Russian Federation has passed a decision prohibiting imports of animal products from Ukraine without making any specific clauses to the production of Ukrainian origin. The Interfractional Union of “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council believes that such a step is not only groundless and groundless but also contrary to the spirit of partnership between our nations and does not correspond to the friendly relations of the two countries. Unfortunately, we have to say that in order to impose sanctions on imports of animal products from Ukraine, the Russian Federation has violated a number of international treaties, namely, the Veterinary Cooperation Agreement, the SND countries of 12 March 1993 and the International Convention for the Control of Goods at the Border since 21 October 1982. Such “protective” actions by the Russian Federation in their content resemble trade war and will cost Ukrainian producers $5060 million per month, and the price of animal production has already increased by 10-15 per cent for Russian citizens. In addition, Russian investors account for more than 30 percent of the Ukrainian raw materials that were used for processing agricultural products in Ukraine in 9 months 2005, $11.3 million, and $11.8 million for dairy. Thus, the introduction of additional sanctions for the import of animal products from Ukraine to the Russian Federation not only harms Ukraine’s interests but, above all, the interests of citizens of Russia. In Ukraine, there is reason to believe that the bans imposed on imports of animal products as well as methods of gas pressure on Ukraine and the artificially exacerbating the status of Ukrainian navigation objects on the Black Sea coast are chains of one chain. Honorable members of the Federation Council and members of the State Duma! We call upon you to initiate an immediate review of your country’s government’s approaches to the formation of bilateral relations between our nations, since common citizens’ needs and standards of law, not political adventures and conjunctural interests, are paramount. We consider it appropriate to initiate a meeting in the near future at the level of the parliamentary groups and factions of Ukraine, the Russian Federation to produce a further joint plan for the development of inter-State relations based solely on the principles of transparency, partnership and mutual benefit. The Interfractional Union of “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u64	Vladimir Bondarenko is invited to the presentation by the faction of the Reform and Order Party. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u65	Vladimir Bondarenko, Reform and Order faction, Pora-PRP. Dear friends! There are problems in the economy of Ukraine that have just been brought about by problems related to international relations. But there seems to be a problem that's not that important, but for us, it's extremely important for society as a whole -- it's a problem of preparing for future elections. We should answer today on this shore: “Will there again be counterfeiting? Are there going to be violations again? Will the administrative resources be used again?” And so far there is no definite answer. We are confident that the technology of using all these counterfeits will be so thin and so adapted to the conditions of today's legislation that we will understand a little bit later. Once again, the greatest manipulations will be used and people will get, perhaps not the ones they want to see in power. Why do I say that? First of all, the reason here is that there has not been a logical conclusion to the beginning of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to bring responsibility to those who have actually faked the last presidential election. It was then sent down to a memorandum, saying that there were two leaders who fought and said that let's forgive each other. Let's forgive, but at least we had to say who broke the law and didn't answer for it. It remains a real factor for future violations and for the integrity of members of local councils and other deputies. We think that by fighting for this inviolability to the lists, those who really should have been in prison would have been involved, and that's why on our flags we're talking not only about the fact that power should be strong and honest, but that bandits should still be in prison, and they're on a lot of lists today. The imperfection of the law in part that prevents the hidden use of material resources for the benefit of those leaders who have been in power for many years. Well, I'm aware, for example, of the fact that in Mirgrad, the city head of Poutov gave every house a basket to collect garbage from himself or from the city authorities. He did not do this all the years when he was in power, and today he did. And I think the more serious things are in bigger cities. In particular, I can give examples in Kiev, where there is a very serious use of administrative resources already today. First of all, the roof is already being secured so that the prosecutor’s office does not respond to certain violations. For example, I do not know from which sources the city’s head handed over 35 apartments to the Attorney General’s Office and the Kyiv City Prosecutor’s Office on the day of the prosecution’s celebration. The same gifts were given to other administrations, and the Ukrainian Administrative Court, which will deal with all the electoral works, somehow received in the city's budget the recalculation of funds, and a lot of money for repairs, and so on. The earth is on the move. There are 18 hectares for one block, 68 for another block, and so forth. If someone today analyzed Kyivrada’s decision, you would be surprised how the earth is politically dispersed in different directions. The land of Kiev is our land with you, the land of the Kyiv community. I want to say that there could also be the favor of individual political forces to the Kiev city head. For example, a social-democracy union, which, by the way, I would say, hated it after the defeat of Surkis, was actively supported today. Perhaps there are some problems related to taking the land under the Dynamo Stadium, in Concha-Spas, as well as on the Vyshgrad Street. I think if the D.A. hadn't gotten 35 apartments, she would have asked. And then the question is, why did Block and Yes and No Yes support Omelchenk? That's right, Omelchenko, isn't it? Could it be a hat that will continue to roam the land of Kiev, using the services of those who do and those who do not, providing the third term of Cuchma in Kiev. I'd like to stop at some of the technologies that actually work in Kiev, especially the technology of laying eggs in different baskets. Are you not surprised that the deputies of the Kiev City Head Lisov, Michovnikov to Yanukovič, Golica and Pilipisin in you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, poor Yalov and Kerian went to Marchuk, Borisov and Padalka to “Our Ukraine”, Gregorian to Kinach, and so on? Where is the political structure of society? Where is the political face of this power? It must be one or the other. I would like to name another technology that the POC people call pre-election promises. The “POC” technology provides an opportunity to make promises or real gifts in advance, ensuring once again the elections for the future. In Kiev, doctors were promised, as in 1998, a doctor's home, a student's dormitory and a student's house, the Palace of Culture, the residents' iron doors, cooperative houses' money, and so on. [[It's been promised three times.]] So these technologies will continue to work, but the real situation in the city needs to change power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u66	Mikola Onichuk is invited from the “Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs” faction. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u67	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political “Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs”, the constituency of “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! By the March 26 elections, there is still a little more than 50 days, and naturally, the political temperature in society and in parliament will remain high. At the same time, we are convinced that national MPs and, in general, the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the necessary constructive potential to consider in the days that remain important bills that apply to the entire country and, in particular, to the electorate. In our opinion, in the view of the Industrial and Business Party, these two clusters of issues are, first of all, those that relate to, first of all, a set of problems that ensure the effective functioning of the judiciary. And the second. That's what entrepreneurship is all about. I will note that when we talk about, in particular, improving the judiciary, this is obviously what should be of interest to all political factions today, regardless of their political orientation, because during the electoral process, we will inevitably refer to the courts, with regard to the protection of the damaged cases of our own or, in fact, the electorate. And so it would seem that it would make sense if one of the days in the sessional weeks left were to devote ourselves solely to the consideration of matters that in some way apply to the judiciary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a whole series of important drafts that need our response. First of all, I would like to point out that for the initiatives of the factions of industrialists, entrepreneurs who have been supported by more than 150 people's deputies from different factions, and for which we thank our colleagues, now in the Supreme Council registered and in the near future, I have the hope of receiving a bill from the Constitutional Court to amend the section “Justice”, which envisages a substantial change in the procedure for the appointment and election of judges, including when it comes to the election of judges from local courts directly by the communities where they live. It is also a matter of raising the age limit for the appointment of a judge and other important measures to increase the efficiency and responsibility of the judicial authorities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that society is also looking forward to the adoption of a bill relating to the legal aid of low-income groups, especially when it comes to the payment of such justice in criminal proceedings, when a person cannot pay for the services of a lawyer, and for this reason the relevant bill in Parliament has been registered and can be considered. It cannot be said that we have to make changes to a number of procedural codes and, in particular, to the Code of Administrative Justice regarding the change in the jurisdiction of electoral cases. Please, Your Honor, pay attention to the fact that the electoral disputes that the Central Electoral Commission will participate in are not considered by district administrative courts, particularly Kiev, but directly by the Supreme Administrative Court as the court of first instance. Such rulings by the Supreme Administrative Court in disputes involving the CLTC, against the CLTC, let's say, could have been reviewed directly as finals by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It is also worth saying that he expects his approval in the second reading of the bill on the procedure for the financing of the judiciary, bearing in mind that requests by the judiciary should be included in the State budget and, if something is not taken into account, the government should provide a reasoned basis. But these questions should be considered directly in the session room. Equally significant are the adoption of the Law on Lawyers, access to judicial decisions, and some others. Honorable colleagues, including the problems related to the judiciary, also find the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that we have not yet exhausted the possibility of negotiating between all factions, with a view to allowing the judges of the Constitutional Court to take an oath or an election. including the election of judges from, in fact, the Supreme Council. I think that each side, and we know who and what we're talking about, has to give up something to make the state have normal functioning institutions, especially when it comes to the institution of constitutional justice. It is enough to note that today the Council of Europe is paying attention to us both as nations and as a parliament to the fact that this is a problem that concerns not only Ukraine but also all Pan-European society. And to conclude, dear friends. We also have the opportunity to ask you separately to consider all the bills that are now ready for consideration on business development issues. They are expected and apply to our electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u68	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u69	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The orange mist disintegrated. None of the promises on Maidan have been fulfilled. The social crisis, the socio-economic situation in the country, the threat of an energy catastrophe, the sharp complication of interstate relations with the Russian Federation, the rise in the interests of the commodity and service oligarchs have led to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign the government of Yehanurov. But the government of Yehanurov resigned himself by going to the polls, for it was indifferent to the problems of our people in Ukraine, which eventually led to the cold weather in Alcevsk. In fact, the President and his immediate surroundings are being used by the government of Yehanurov in the status of the century. Like the pre-election headquarters that has the entire country's budget at its disposal. It bears no responsibility for the failure of internal, external policy and acts solely for the benefit of one political force – the Presidential “Our Ukraine” Block. Under these circumstances, the Communist Party of Ukraine is proposing immediately, from the very first day of the work of our 9th session of the Supreme Council, to begin the process of forming the Government of National Confidence. We urge the political forces that care about the fate of the Ukrainian people and the state to join our initiative and to support the following conditions for further cooperation. First, to exclude from your electoral lists the oligarchic circles that are the figures of the corruption scandals against which the charges were made. Second, define a common programme of action for the government of national trust. In particular, agree: the need to continue the political reform and the adoption of the new National Constitution; to ensure Ukraine's foreign political neutrality as a non-block state; and to ensure Ukraine's participation in international economic, integration processes primarily as a single economic space; and the anti-crisis package is energy security, pricing and tariffs, implementation of the State budget, protection of the interests of domestic producers. Third, define mechanisms and procedures for the reconciliation of candidates. This is the path to the consolidation of Ukrainian society, this is the way to form a professional, government team. Ukraine’s company is ready to take political responsibility for this. Next, President Yushchenko of Ukraine and his political environment, in spite of the interests of the people of Ukraine, are being drawn to NATO today. Foreign counselors are already working on mobilization plans, and new commitments are being made. Such an external political line poses a number of serious threats to Ukraine’s national security. The introduction to the alliance will lead to the complete collapse of Ukrainian GDP, the collapse of advanced scientific developments, the loss of millions of jobs and unwarranted budgetary costs. Yushchenka's statements and his team on Ukraine's accession to this alliance in 2008 lead to a deepening crisis in relations with strategic partners, first of all the Russian Federation. Joint projects in space exploration, aircraft construction, shipbuilding, and military cooperation have already begun. Thus the “hazard ” foreign policy corrupts enmity with our brothers and neighbors. The activities of most ministries and departments instead of addressing pressing socio-economic issues and addressing the crisis in Ukraine in connection with the failure of the heating season, administrative financial resources are focused on building confrontational foreign policy systems. As a result, responsibility for government failures and social catastrophes is translated into local authority, and the fight against the consequences lies with the victims. In this context, the communists demand that the budget funding of any programme of integration of Ukraine into NATO be stopped immediately. And last but not least, before the 2006 elections in Ukraine, social and political divisions, oligarchs and their political forces and blocs are sown persistently and consistently by the seeds of hostility and hatred, trying to take responsibility for the terrible socio-economic situation away. First of all, this is done in order to divert people from social injustice. The authorities of the oligarchs describe Ukrainian citizens with their "manilian fantasies". All the plans of power -- demagogy, all the promises of the oligarchs -- are outright speculation and deception. Secondly, it is to involve citizens in their own breakdowns, to use them as the ultimate political “political meat”. We warn: Today, Ukraine is being prepared for a different division of territory and spheres, and authorities and oligarchs are already stealing our country from semi - feudal areas. They are preparing grounds for the division of Ukraine into hostile principalities, where there will be no truth or justice. The authorities and oligarchs continue to divide Ukraine into nations and East and West.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! The statements by the authorised representatives of the MPs and factions have been completed. A recent session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was concluded. In practice, we will be provided with information on the results of the participation of the Ukrainian parliamentary delegation in the PARE session. So if you had no objection, we would now give an address to Anatoly Bartholomew Rahanski in five minutes. No warning? Anatoly Bartholomew, please. And then we'll call it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before the speech, I would like to tell you that the Europeans have adopted 3,918 children today, and the children are in full security and in complete peace and will learn. Fellow Christians, 23 / 22 From Alczewska, I mean. On January 23-27, 2006, the Council of Europe held its first session of the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, with the participation of representatives, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and their representatives – Rahanski, Bondarenko, Glady, Klimpush, Kostinuk, Leapina, Pisarenko, Rybak, Šibko. The Assembly considered such questions. The United Nations Parliamentary Choice, the so-called secret tickets in the member states of the Council of Europe, the contribution of Europe to improving water management, compliance with Georgia's obligations and obligations, the integration of immigrant women in Europe, human rights violations in the Chechen Republic, the rejection of the authority of the Azerbaijani parliamentary delegation, the need for international condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes, the situation in Belarus ahead of the presidential elections, the notion of “nation”, the consequences of China's economic revival for Europe and others. Proposals to include the issue of “Freedom of the media in Russia”, “Treatments in European Cities”, “The threat of energy use as an instrument of political pressure” in the agenda of the PARJE. The Parliamentary Secretary-General of PARJE, Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, President of the 60th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, Prime Minister of Bulgaria, President of Romania Besescu, Head of the Senate of Mexico, Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Belarus, President of Belarus from the Democratic Forces of Malinkovic. The Assembly elected Boris Oljinik as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. During the session, there was a meeting of the Monitoring Committee, which was attended by the Minister of Justice of the Head of State, and I am also a deputy, head, head of the Ukrainian delegation. There were two speeches, both mine and the Chief, regarding the situation surrounding the appointment of a new composition of the Constitutional Court. An appropriate declaration has been accepted. The meeting also decided to allow reporters Severinsen and Wolvend to visit Ukraine from 13 to 16 February. The Bureau of the Assembly decided to delegate to Ukraine the PARJE mission to observe the 2006 parliamentary elections of up to 50 people. As deputy head of the delegation, Rahanski held meetings with President Parje, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the President of the 60th session of the General Assembly, and held a press conference for media representatives accredited to the Council of Europe. In accordance with the rules of procedure, the Parliamentary Assembly approved the authorization of members of permanent delegations of countries, but the mandates of Azerbaijani parliamentarians were not proposed to ratify, since the legitimacy of the results of the recent elections on the Republic's legislative body was questioned. During the discussion of the report, most parliamentarians expressed their support for the ratification of the mandate. During the consideration of the parliamentary report. The UN spoke to the President of the 60th General Assembly of the United Nations, Eliason, and Rahanski participated in the discussion, and two amendments to the report were also supported to the resolution, and the draft recommendation proposed by the Rahanski and members of the delegation, which was adopted. The Assembly also heard the report “Integration of immigrant women in Europe” and a decision was taken. States members of the Council of Europe were urged to ensure the fundamental rights of immigrant women. The Parliamentary Forum heard “The need for international condemnation of totalitarian communist crimes”. The MPs demonstrated a high interest in the subject of discussion. The list of speakers numbered more than 60. From the Assembly’s rostrum, there were diametrically opposite views. Some have criticized the basic position of the report, found it biased, warned against the company’s launch of a witch hunt. Others pointed out that the document revealed specific crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u72	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u73	The national deputy of Ukraine, Gladys, also participated in the discussion. A group of Ukrainian deputies who were present amended the draft recommendations with the proposal to recognize the 32-33 years of famine in Ukraine as genocide against the Ukrainian people. A resolution was adopted as a result of the discussion, but the draft recommendation was rejected because the document did not obtain the required two thirds of the votes cast by the Assembly. The Parliamentary Assembly discussed the situation in Belarus before the presidential elections. The Speaker of the Belarusian Parliament, Konoplov, fully refuted all accusations against his country and accused the Parliamentary Assembly of refusing to settle the dialogue with Belarus. There was also a single presidential candidate from the unified democratic forces of Belarus, Malinkovic, who expressed hope that Europe would eventually see his country free. Dear colleagues! What a request I have. Vladimir Mihajlovich, members of the delegation took an active part in her work and because our work was also provided by the Interparliamentary Liaison Office. But we need to adopt conclusions urgently, on this Sunday, the Law “On the Ratification of the 12, 14 Protocols to the European Convention on Human Rights and the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Ratification will facilitate citizens' access to justice from human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! We're taking the information for granted. I would just like to point out that we have only four draft ratification laws in the Supreme Council today. All the documents that are coming are being reviewed by the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't have any objections, we're going to call it a break, aren't we? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes, 30 minutes. After the break, we will consider draft laws in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u75	Please come into the session room, we'll continue our work. Dear people's deputies, we have to make a single decision. For information on this subject, the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, is invited to attend. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, as you know, on January 18th of this year, on the 57th year of life, a national deputy, Yeshchenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, a member of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, suddenly died. In this regard, the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a draft decree on the early termination of the mandate of the national deputy. It's on your hands. I thank you and ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Jeszczenka Volodymira Mikolajovic, is being submitted for your consideration. Registration No. 9044. Please vote. [[12:40:48]] For 314 Decision taken. I ask the Secretariat to draw up an appropriate document for signature. A draft law on holding companies in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Reporter: Philip Pilipovich Budzigan, member of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on holding companies in Ukraine, Registration No. 3355, is being submitted to your consideration. It was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 17, 2004, almost a year ago by 251 votes in favour of receiving it in the first reading. The bill aims to determine the general principles for the functioning of holding companies in Ukraine, including state-owned holding companies, and in particular all their formations, activities and liquidations. The bill, prepared for second reading, had 46 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, 30 of which had been taken into account entirely, 12 had been rejected, and the rest of the proposals had been taken into account in a partial, editorial or substantive way. Suggestions that are taken into account are primarily aimed at increasing the position of holding companies in the control of corporate enterprises. Special attention is paid to the creation and operation of state-owned holding companies. According to a bill prepared for second reading, a state-owned holding company is recognized as an open stock company, where no less than a hundred percent of the shares belong to the State. Stocks of state-owned holding companies can't be transferred to government in any way. The state-owned stocks and state-owned assets that have been transferred by the State to the statutory fund of the state-owned holding company cannot be alienated or placed in a mortgage used to form statutory funds of any other enterprise. The state holding company is prohibited from taking any action that may lead to the alienation of shares, particles, pies or property, to contribute to its statutory fund before its privatisation process is completed. The decision to privatize a state-owned holding company can only be made after the decision to privatize all corporate enterprises, the stock packages transferred to the statutory fund of such a holding company. In addition, in order to eliminate contradictions to the Law of the Master Code, appropriate changes are made to it. All positions on the project have been reconciled with the government's securities commission. Bill 3355 is proposed to be adopted as a law in the second reading and generally as a law. And now, if necessary, you can go through those amendments that are not considered by the committee if the authors insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the committee to your knowledge has been proven, and the amendments are all taken into account except for some amendments by the national deputy of Gorbal. Do you insist, our colleague, on repairs? No! No! That's why I'm voting. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote. Proposal for a second-reading committee and generally as a bill of the Ukrainian Holding Company Act, registration number 3355. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:44:55]] For 228 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is under review. First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogrizko Yes. Volodymyr Stanislavovich, please. Prepare Vitalia Homutinik. What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Today you are being reviewed for the second time by Bill No. 0307 on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The bill was prepared by the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and agreed without notice by the Ministry of Finance, Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The draft law concludes with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine "On Ukraine's International Contracts". The Cabinet of Ministers proposed ratifying the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank. This agreement was signed on June 14, 2005 and provides for the European Investment Bank to be able to carry out activities in Ukraine, activities envisaged by the Charter, such as borrowing, ownership, use and management of such funds. The effectiveness of the framework agreement will allow Ukraine to participate in the economy in relation to the cost-effective long-term financial resources of the bank for the implementation of infrastructure, energy, environmental protection and other projects. These include transport infrastructure, energy, telecommunications, small and medium-sized businesses, support for environmental, environmental, and industrial investment projects. What is particularly important is that this will also be done at the regional level. The bank finances joint or individual projects if their cost is more than 25 million euros, with a bank share of 50 percent. Under normal conditions, this portion is 25-30 percent. The bank has the highest credit rating. And so it can engage financial resources at the best of conditions, giving them at lower rates than usual. Another important advantage is that the term on which loans are granted for, say, industrial projects ranges from 7 to 12 years with a premium of 2 to 6 years. Subjects to the implementation of the framework agreement will be enterprises of various forms of ownership, regional authorities, local governments, and ministries. The presence in Ukraine of the European Bank will be an important signal to international investors and will definitely contribute to improving the investment climate in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers is asking you to approve the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine and thus ratify the Framework Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Yes, three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u82	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Stanislavovich! Of course, it's the right thing to do with investment loans, but if it's for big projects, if the state is going to continue to do so. And if it's going to be spreading these loans, and somewhere it's going to be like water in the sand, then I think it's pointless. What is more, we already have experience when the World Bank was lending such loans, for example, to land reform, but they were pouring into buying computers, furniture, machines, and so forth. Tell me, for what purposes and how, will it be money loans or commodity loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Leschenko. I've already talked about it. That the main applications will be transport, energy, telecommunications, small, medium-sized business, ecology, industrial projects, investment projects. The point is that the bank will operate in Ukraine on the basis of Ukrainian legislation, and so all the projects that will be put together here will be located exclusively in the right field of the Ukrainian state. Subjects depend on the project and the number of years to which percentages will be concluded. This is already the case directly with the bank and the specific entity with which it will contract. But the terms of such a contract are much better, even compared to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We're more comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u84	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Yuri Karmazin's Block. Dear reporter! I would like to ask you how you would comment on Article 3 “Bank Taxation”. I quote: “The interest and other payments are due to the bank resulting from the activities envisaged by this agreement, as well as the assets and revenues of the bank related to such activities, are not tax-free.” Before that, article 2 says that the bank is conducting commercial activities in Ukraine. How is it different from the Ukrainian banks? How does it differ from other subjects of entrepreneurship? Why do we grant such privileges to this bank? What, we don't need pension taxes, wages, everything else? Why do such things even happen? I can't understand it. Of course, it's a banking facility and everything. And we're talking about immunity, the privileges here are serious in article eight, very serious. Why would you do that? If we just want to get the capital involved, one thing. Or is there something else? Maybe he'll bend.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Carmazin. I would like to say that only by the end of the following year is it envisaged that this bank for Ukraine can allocate about 250 million dollars. Euro. That's a pretty serious amount that we can count on. About the percentage. The bank will pay interest to Ukrainian entities, credits at the lowest rate today are 5.13. So this is actually a certain balance, why and in the article three that you quoted, it's written that he's going to be taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u87	And Mikhailo Melniczuk, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u88	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear reporter, would you be able to name a figure, how many investments, and in 2005 it was aimed at supporting Ukraine's small and medium-sized business? Moreover, the faction of socialists has always taken care of this direction of work. We think that small and medium-sized business is an engine that will enable Ukraine's economy to be resuscitated. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Melniczuk. I don't have an exact number right now, but if we're talking about this bank, it's about small and medium-sized businesses being the focus of this bank's lending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u90	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Stanislavovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergey Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, this project envisions the involvement in Ukraine's economy of long-term financial resources from the bank for the implementation of infrastructure energy, environmental and other investment projects of general government importance. I emphasize, it's just a framework agreement. Looking forward to possible investment projects, the committee decided to support the bill. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill has the following observations. We have to make a decision, i.e. agree to ratify the framework agreement, and the terms and conditions will be determined by the bank after the decision we have made. And whether they will be acceptable to Ukraine remains a sweat. Part 3 of article 7 of the Treaty states that the bank will have free access to the national financial market of Ukraine, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, and its obligations and securities will be used by the regime, including the tax regime, at least as favourable as those granted to the most privileged international financial organizations. However, it is not noted which are the most privileged international financial organizations. Next. Part 3 of Article 7 warns that the bank can terminate this agreement by means of a written communication addressed to Ukraine. Sending any such message does not affect the rights and benefits received by the bank. At the time of the termination of the agreement by Ukraine, Ukraine was to notify the bank in six months. By analysing this situation with regard to the parties' notices of termination of the agreement, discrimination on the rights of the parties to this framework agreement can be observed. I want to remind you that this bill has been reviewed once before, and it has not found support in the Supreme Council Hall, the committee has already taken note of all of these observations, but it has remained unchanged, but, hopefully, the investment climate has improved, the Committee is asking the Supreme Council to support this ratification project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we're going to make a decision, aren't we? No warning? They signed up for the show. Okay, let's have a discussion. If you don't mind, give me 10 minutes. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u93	A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Mironenko. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not support this bill of ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank, since unfortunately the adoption of the Act is not as economical as it is political. This character is also unfavourable to Ukraine. Discrimination, in this case, has just been discussed by the deputies, only I cannot say with satisfaction what is being observed, but let us accept the Law. Legislation that discriminates against domestic banks and domestic producers cannot be enacted. We must be at least principled in this regard. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in this case, the bank is not coming to us to make us happy. And to make a profit, to get some perks and stuff. And our influence will undoubtedly be negative, and we will be constantly at risk. However, there will be no adequate investment, only an illusion of investment will be created. It's the worst thing for us. For without investment, the economy, the moral, technical wear of equipment, the domestic equipment is vast, gigantic. And we need to modernize production as quickly as possible. To that end, of course, we can also rely on external loans for external opportunities. To that end, it is certainly necessary to create conditions, to combat corruption, crime, as in China, for example. The Communist China was able to do so. The largest investments are from all over the world, including the United States, Japan and so on. But first of all, we need to rely on self-investment, and we need to ensure that enterprises are self-invested. This requires both tax and economic planning, and certainly requires a banking system in Ukraine that ensures that the economy is credited at an affordable rate. Now it's just a terrible percentage, even though we've been talking about this for so many years. We have proposed many times and now insist: to establish public investment banks that can work in industry, in transport, in agriculture. The same Japan, the same Germany, the United States, took an example from our Soviet Union, the great and beautiful Soviet Union, where there were more dignity than there were shortcomings. We have renounced this experience. We insist on the establishment of a people's government that will create a state system of investment in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u94	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Mikhailo Melniczuk is transferring the right to speak to Šibku, isn't he? Hello, Hiccup microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to turn around. A colleague that I am. Yet we cherish the hope that investment will eventually come to Ukraine, not the small source that we have today, but the ones that can provide not just economic development, from this economy and development, the well-being of this society, social programs and so on. If we look closely at the conditions that the investment bank is providing for today, then, in fact, they give us hope, and we can say that the bank, in fact, will apply the terms of its statute here. And they, these terms of the statute, are not harmed by our law. So the bank, in fact, will be governed by those normative legislative acts that we have in Ukraine. This is, indeed, a big benefit for today: Ukraine is integrated into a system, an international system that allows it to work on investments or other investments. But at the same time, I'd like to pay attention to some of the points. Well, first of all, that's what the committee head said. And second of all, I'd like to turn to such a line as the deal means. The agreement establishes that interest and all other payments due to the European Investment Bank resulting from its contractual activities, as well as the bank’s assets and income associated with such activities, shall not be subject to any tax, customs, mandatory congregations or other similar deductions. So we're actually putting our banks in unequal conditions with these international banks. It's not, as they say, patriotic, but it's not, from an economic and financial point of view. That's the first one. And here's what we have to point out is that this is really going to cause us to lose our budget, which is not so big today that it can provide opportunities for development and for the economy and for the development of social problems. So I think we need to look at how we're going to vote so that we don't put domestic banks and this bank that's respectable and respectable all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u96	Basil Nadrag, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u97	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, we are considering today the issue that is essentially the following. How convenient, how beneficial it will be to invest in Ukraine. And I think this is the right place to think about the fact that without investment virtually the economy can't develop. But I think that today, when we think about it, we still need to understand that, on the one hand, we need to create conditions for investment, and on the other hand, we need to look at how we have a financial resource in our national economy, or how it goes away. Therefore, when it is said today that the European Investment Bank should or should not have any preference over having national banks, the only question arises. If we want the European Investment Bank to provide resources for the renewal, modernization of the economy, we must go to the meeting. The question is whether it is so expensive to pay for it when it comes to our domestic banks, in fact, being placed not in unequal conditions, but in conditions that are virtually diametrically opposite. Here, colleagues have already said in their statements that the interest of the bank in its activities, securities and everything else, that the European Investment Bank will carry out its financial activities as its economic activity, benefit and benefit from the benefits that our Ukrainian banks only dream of. And it's against what we're saying that sooner or later we're going to have to adapt our banking system to the European system. I have a question. Do we adapt when we are stronger, more financially powerful, I'm not afraid of that word, banks coming in here are initially favoured, and our national banks, which are much more modest in their economic potential, continue to pay on full programme. I think that the question here is absolutely correct and the colleagues who have asked him is that it is totally unclear why the public budget, which we traditionally have in the debate in this room is quite scarce in the main areas, we lack the money for either and for the other, and yet we are talking about that the whole business structure, which includes the European Investment Bank, is not as classic as the ordinary commercial bank, but is still receiving benefits, and the public budget is not getting anything. And so, speaking of this, I think that we should not only talk more about whether we need the European Investment Bank economically, how much this resource will come in, whether it will benefit or not, and how much of it will be affected by the related resources, the related industries. From that point of view, I think we have a point in thinking before we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u98	Yes, we have. Just a minute. Is there an Astrov Shumilov? Microphone, please. I see. You'll have one minute, because we're running out of time. Yes, the "Rebirth" faction. [[13:05:44]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, voters. Astrov-Sumilov, Luhanščina, Rebirth faction. The European Investment Bank has expressed its willingness to lend projects in Ukraine for which it plans to allocate up to EUR 500 million. This agreement determines the basic implementation by the European Investment Bank of investments in the Ukrainian economy. This is not a single loan, but a whole package of economically sound investment projects. I would like to emphasize that this will be the fifth country of the former Soviet Union after Russia and the Baltic countries. Russia had ratified such a treaty as early as 2003. Ukraine benefits from cooperating with the bank, as credit rates are lower than those of the Ukrainian financial institutions. But cooperation with the bank and the flow of investments into the country are hampered by double standards of some political forces, which considered the issue positive for Ukraine two years ago and now claim that ratification of the agreement is detrimental to the country. Among the planned investment projects in Ukraine is funding by the European Investment Bank, together with “Kravtodor”, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Third Kiev-Chop Road Repair Project, which is worth up to 300 million euros. Under article 11 of the Agreement, the Government of Ukraine and the European Investment Bank will regularly discuss the criteria for granting credit. It is these criteria that we must discuss. The members of the faction of the “Virgination” Political Party point out that the transport industry should become a priority in attracting investment funds. In addition to the construction of the Kiev-Chop road, such projects should include: a project to introduce speeding of trains, the construction of dry cargo vessels for Ukrainian-Danube steaming, the establishment of a Crimean transport and industrial complex, the renewal of the fleet and the construction of airport structures. Thus, ratification of this agreement will soon attract long-term and non-expenditure credit resources to the economy that will help develop the Ukrainian transport system. Please, dear colleagues, support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u99	Thank you. The discussion is over. For reasons, please Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The most current problem of the Ukrainian economy is the problem of updating the production apparatus. In this regard, it is appropriate to include the resources offered by the European Investment Bank. I think the argument of discrimination is groundless, given the conditions under which the bank lends us loans, it gives us a very low percentage -- 5.3 by 20 years, and 6 years is a positive, you can only dream of such conditions. I believe that there is a need for and sufficient reason in Parliament to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. A draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is put to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:10:10]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 0, National Party - 40, "Our Ukraine" -35, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPI - 26, National Block - 7, SDPU (O) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, "Rebirth" - 13, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 12, National Movement of Ukraine - 10, "Reforms and Orders" - 12, "One Ukraine" - 9, non-fractional - 11, Ladies and gentlemen, two factions are calling for a recess, namely, the BUT factions and the “One Ukraine” or to make a statement, I understand? Who will act? Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u102	Vladimir Yavorovsky Block of Yulia Timoshenko First. Julia Timoshenko's block is very sympathetic to John Zaiti and to the incident that has taken place, and, John, if you can hear us, more quickly recover and return without you, the Supreme Council is incomplete. The other one. Today, 66 years of Stalin’s decree, the order to begin emigration from western Ukraine, was fulfilled. It was in the 1940s that the resistance movement, called the Ukrainian rebel army, was provoked. Third. Probably more anti-national law than you and I passed, and I didn't vote for it and I didn't vote for it, but it still is -- it's, of course, the immunity of members of all levels. I've just returned from a few areas where people are talking about it as some of our biggest parliamentary error and of course the President has signed it and it's also a mistake. It could have been vetoed and 300 votes could never have been found here in Parliament. We know that this bill actually created a position called a “deputy MP”, obviously that was what we could call it. I don't mean everybody, don't catch me on the phone, but I'm pretty sure you all know that big money is already being paid for the country council today. As a result, I want to turn to those who have not yet paid the money — do not do so because we will definitely cancel the bill. We are preparing amendments to this bill now, and if it does not pass now, I think the new Parliament will definitely accept it. You can't let that happen! Moreover, I am convinced that both article 80 should be taken or amended by the Constitution regarding our inviolability with you. What deputies today need untouchableness? I don't need it because I don't have a business. And if someone puts it on my head, it won't do me any good. The opposition bill needs to be adopted, and that will be enough for the opposition to have political protection. And last, fourth. I want to refer to our political satellites, to our Ukraine, to the Ukrainian People's Party, to the PRP and the POR, to the socialists that we are today, you will get a paper from the BIT where we put out our position in which there is no distribution of portfolios and in which there are basic national ideas and ideas that have been worked out in the field. Bandits have to be in jail, and today they're making freaks and butterflies to take over the cities here. I am absolutely convinced that we do not have the right to talk nonsense to each other today, because we are going to be together. I want to tell some political hawks: don't forget that bird flu is in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u103	Yes, dear fellows. Let us turn to the laws to which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 20 December 2005, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 5152. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Andry Gurgy. Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnowsky will be the co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, adopted by the Supreme Council on 29 November 2005, cannot be signed, on the basis of the proposal that part two of article 23 of the Ukrainian Law should be included in the salaries of scientific workers on which the pension is paid, including in respect of contracts and contracts for which the end result is paid. Regrettably, such an approach is not in line with the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, which clearly states that a salary is paid, and the Pensions Act alone provides for a pension, which is the remuneration that the owner, or the authorized authority, pays the employee for the work done. Nor is it in line with the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technical Activities, which states that a scientific worker is a worker whose main place of work is a scientific institution in accordance with a contract or contract and who is professionally engaged in scientific or academic activities. In this regard, payment for contracts and contracts is proposed for disposal. Nor do they agree with the valid legislation regarding the fact that the wages of a fellow scientist should be taken into account not only for the main job but also for the compatibility of the pension. And that needs extra, the calculations show 130 million dollars. The second point is five counted, and three left. [[all there were 8 comments]] This is that the difference between the amount assigned by this law according to other acts calculated between is the right of a scientific worker, especially for which is financed for scientific and scientific teachers of public budgetary institutions and institutions of other forms of property, is calculated at the expense of the state budget. This contradicts existing legislation and is therefore proposed in part 16, article 24. In this regard, the President cannot sign this law and apply the veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, head of the Committee on Education and Science
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Committee on Science and Education has carefully considered the President's objection to the law amending the Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technological Activities in Ukraine. The President's objection concerns three points: 1. From which earner, from which salary is determined. 2. Who has to pay the pension allowance. 3. As defined by retirement. Regarding the first observation -- which earnings are included in the definition of pensions. The President denies that the profits earned by contracts and contracts paid by the end result were not included in the definition of pensions. The Committee on Science and Education agrees with the President’s conclusion. The other one. The president denies that work for compatibility is included in the income from which the pension is determined. The committee denies it. That is, an academic or scientist who works at the Academy of Sciences is invited to a university to read a lecture. He's reading a course of lectures there, and that's not part of the job. Similarly, a scientist at a university is invited to the Academy of Sciences to manage scientific work. This is not included in income. This is wrong. And so we ask the President not to take this objection into consideration. Next comes the question of who should pay the wage supplement. It used to be like this. If you work in a budget institution, the pension allowance is paid from the Pension Fund. If you work in a government but non-budgetary institution, 50 percent is paid out of the budget and 50 percent are from a trust fund. If the scientific institution is in stock, it's only from the foundation of this enterprise. This caused an unusual amount of turmoil, letters in the middle of the country. Today’s Finance Minister, Mr. Pinzenik, has passed a bill according to which all the supplements are paid from the budget, regardless of where the scientist works. So we ask that we also leave this amendment as proposed by the committee. The same is true of the period from which the pension is paid. In 99 C.E., the position of researcher engineer was considered a scientific position. And it was a retirement payout. By the 2002 law, the Cabinet of Ministers had already removed the office. And these people who have received an appropriate pension in this office now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u107	Give me a chance to finish the speech, yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u108	These pension supplements are literally left behind. That's not fair. The committee therefore took note of one point by the President, and three remarks by the President did not take into account and asked to be left in the previous edition. Deputies! I'm asking you very much, in fact, we've written a perfectly fair and reasonable law. The president made his remarks. I ask you to vote in favour of the committee's proposals, but I ask you to vote in favour of these proposals by 300 votes. Then there will be no more acquittal with that law, for the President has returned this law for the third time with various amendments. And so I ask you for 300 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Igor Raphaelovich, sit down. Dear colleagues! Under the Constitution, the President of Ukraine can apply the veto to the law, even if we vote 400 votes or 450, the exception is only constitutional law when we adopt it. Dear colleagues! I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine in a new edition with partial consideration of the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is a document, registration number 5152. Please vote. [[13:22:40]] For 339 Igor Raphaelovich, a constitutional majority. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Law on Added Cost Tax, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10/01/2006, registration number 7494, has been announced for consideration. Reporter of the Deputy Finance Minister, Merkovsky Sergey Ivanovich. Prepare for the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergio Kiroyanz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable People's Deputies! The President of Ukraine applied the veto on the signing of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, issue 2271-4. Amendments are made by law that do not include taxes on the added value of the underlying fund transaction as a contribution to the statutory fund of legal persons to form their entire property complex in exchange for the corporate rights it issues. In addition to extending the tax exemption to the added cost, the stated standard violates the basic principles of the added cost function, according to which the object of the tax does not depend on the direction and manner in which it is used. With regard to imports of goods, in line with the sixth EU Council Directive, imports of goods are subject to added-value taxation without any restrictions. In addition, the adoption of the bill distorts competition in the internal market for goods and services because it favours structures and related products that are involved in the scheme proposed in this law, in contrast to traditional or normal schemes or ways of implementing VAT-paying goods. An analysis of the introduction of taxation of the specified types of operations in 2005 based on the State-Creature data suggests that taxation or the elimination of benefits from taxing the specified transactions did not lead to a deterioration of the investment climate in Ukraine. Yes, in 2003, foreign investment in movable and immovable property amounted to 483.6 million. In 2004, $566.7 million was allocated to the United States of America. In the second and third quarters of 2005, when the corresponding exemptions were cancelled, $300 million was invested. The United States dollar is expected to reach 580 million dollars by 2005. That's what I'm talking about. So the analysis of this situation shows that we were able to improve the payment of taxes to the budget. Moreover, the introduction of this rule allows for, in our view, a shadowy privatization of state-owned parts of enterprises through the transfer of property to the statutory fund of other enterprises. In addition, we believe that this will lead to the loss of the State budget at a previous estimate of 500 million dollars. And to conclude, I would like to say that this is contrary to the Supreme Council of Law No. 2505, which has been enacted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u111	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u112	Thus, it is contrary to the law introduced by the five - year moratorium on granting new and expanding existing benefits, as well as to the requirements of article 27 of the Code of Budget and article 95, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why we propose, honourable national deputies, to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u113	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Sergey Kiroyantz, head of the committee's subcommittee. To the vote? Now, one minute. The Kyroyan will speak and we will vote now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u114	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It is proposed to consider the President's proposal for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. On January 12, 2006, the Committee received Presidential proposals to reject the law. The committee recalls that this law restores the rule that was removed from the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 25 March 2005. The termination of the legislative rule in the middle of the year, when appropriate investment agreements were in place, certain business rules were in place to bring together a number of investment projects, to review them with certain negative consequences for Ukrainian enterprises, usually referring to judicial institutions. I would like to point out that the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is addressed to the Committee by hundreds of operators asking to submit an appropriate bill as soon as possible in order to return the status quo. Such a bill was before the Supreme Council. was offered for consideration by the Supreme Council and supported, but was returned with an offer from the President of Ukraine to reject it. I would like to add a few words in essence to this law. The Act is a legislative act that stimulates production and production in Ukraine. The Deputy Minister's statement that the adoption of the Act had not led to any negative effects on the productive forces of Ukraine, in my view, was not true. Because investors who contributed equipment, both domestic and overseas, to the company's statutory fund had ceased to benefit, as if the flow of the equipment had ceased to exist in the country, as a result. This increased the taxation of these products. Thus, the funds of the enterprise, which, virtually all factories, in all Ukrainian productions, have been transferred, virtually, to the foundation, are now far short of the fact that the equipment is new, from abroad and produced in Ukraine. As a result, the benefit that stimulates producers was removed by the Act adopted by the budget provision in the Budget Act, 2005. This is therefore a productive law aimed at the development of the Ukrainian productive forces and the committee, and I ask you to support this Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u115	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the President of Ukraine has applied the veto to this Act and proposes to reject this Act, and the Committee proposes to defeat the President's veto, I will put the President's proposal to the vote first. The proposal by the President of Ukraine is to reject the Ukrainian Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Value Tax. I'm voting on this proposal. Please make up your mind. [[13:30:42]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable national MPs, I am proposing to the committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Act of Ukraine amending article 3 of the Law on value added tax, registration number 7494. Please vote. Yes, there's a vote coming, dear fellows! [[13:31:18]] For 287 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, who, in order to return to the review of the law, registration number 7494, please vote. [[13:31:48]] For 291 We're back. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Elimination of the veto of the President of Ukraine to amend article 3 of the Law on Value Added Tax, registration number 7494. Please vote. [[13:32:23]] For 296 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 58, Communists – 55, People's Party – 39, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Block Timoshenko – 33, SPI – 29, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 15, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 1, “Ukraine” – 10, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, you can have an analogy: the April 8th vote to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy Dear friends, I think we've now taken two extreme positions, so the question is not solved. The question is very important. So if you leave a zero rate on the import of equipment, which is then based on the core funds, there was a lot of abuse when such equipment was imported, and then it wasn't based on basic funds, but it was implemented in Ukraine. And there's a lot of people who've been warming up their hands on this. On the other hand, if you pay 20 percent on the border, the investor really doesn't go, and our businesses can't resupply. I think this is where the profile committee is supposed to find the gold inside. You have to find a procedure by which essentially technological enterprises can import equipment through a bill or through some kind of identification, put it on basic funds and not pay VAT. If we're in extreme positions, believe me, the question remains unresolved and unfortunately the investor doesn't go. So I think the profile committee needs to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the law has been rejected. Kyroyanz, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u118	Respectable colleagues, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry, which formed the 2005 budget, tried to find an average position. But their position was somewhat wicked. The trick was that a so-called tax credit had been made. That you're bringing the equipment first, and then we'll pay you back after the bill. But evil was that the money was returned to investors who carried equipment and produced equipment in the country and contributed to the statutory fund only if the State had already had an enterprise. That is, if the State was in debt to the enterprise, many did not pay attention to the case. Investors who pay money from their pockets understood it well and stopped taking equipment to the country. That's what this law is all about, allowing you to import equipment and stimulate production. It thus stimulates jobs, productivity, income tax and budgeting. The budget was only 10 million through the adoption of the Act. But all the investors stopped importing, investing in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's get to it. I'm sorry, Your Honor, the law has been rejected. That's a big dot, that's all. Dear colleagues, the law is rejected. Let the committee, the committee make proposals, and we'll work. That's it. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration numbers 8445, 8445-1, 8445-2, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] The rapporteurs are Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Heater Olena Vasilovna and Hare Ivan Alexandrovich. Instead of the hare, John Alexanderovich will report Valerius Assadchev. Please, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, we are now working on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u120	Honorable colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, Communist factions, Cibenko, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I would like to say that, after the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 30 June 2005, there was an increase in the salary of high-employees, starting with ministers, prime ministers, vice-premiers, national deputies, judges and so on, and so forth, a very difficult situation has arisen in society. This document violated a fragile, at least relative, fragile, at least relative relationship between the minimum wage paid to the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens or close to that amount and the wages of high-income workers. I would like to say to the honor of the representatives of the various categories of seniors, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine has found the courage to give up this decision and return the situation to the previous level of salary that was before the increase. By all other categories of high - income workers today, the salary is calculated at 15, 18, 20,000 dollars. Of course, this has also led to a situation in the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. One of the biggest problems that is now in Ukraine's pension security is the great variety in the level of pensions of Ukrainian citizens. That is why the faction of Communists of the Supreme Council of Ukraine initiated the development and introduction of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] This document proposes to limit the maximum amount of pension regardless of the salary paid by a high-ranking official or in which field he works with twelve minimum pensions at the age of twelve. I realize that this is not about setting up, let's say, absolute justice, but it's at least a step in the direction and the establishment of justice in retirement. It was absolutely fair to have a pension insurance situation in Soviet times when the difference between the minimum pension and the maximum never exceeded the coefficient of three. Today, this difference is tens of times. Therefore, on behalf of the author of the bill, I call on the national deputies of Ukraine to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Hot Helen Vasilovna, give me a chance. Get ready for Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government bill syncs with a parliamentary legislative initiative to limit pensions to the upper limit of 12 minimum pensions by age. I would like to inform you, Mr. People's Deputies, that the International Labour Organization Convention provides for the possibility of setting or the ceiling of income from which contributions to social funds are paid and the corresponding amount of pension, or the establishment of a maximum pension. In doing so, it is noted that the maximum pension is determined by Parliament, taking into account the reasonable ratio of the pensions of the average citizens. Today, we have a minimum pension size thanks to the decisions taken by the Supreme Council to reach the minimum of living, and we, through the adopted law, have already foreseen a minimum pension of 350 dollars in the 2006 government budget and will double this year's pension, and we have secured a timely pension payment. And so you have a proposal for sorting and the upper bound of the pension. Dear National Deputies! The government bill is different from the parliamentary bill, which deals with similar issues, and the other aspect. We have the lowest retirement age today, and, God forbid, we should have a decent pension at that retirement age. But there's a question of when we guarantee, and it's a great honour for the Supreme Council, people shrinking down, businesses are cut down, and people have the right to retire even before -- in a year and a half or two, and they're considered unemployed. And that's why we're giving her a pension earlier than two or a half years ago, and we're funding a pension at the expense of the unemployment fund. But in this period of time, two or two and a half years, a person takes up a job and at this time we propose to stop paying his pension and to continue it after reaching the established retirement age. In our view, this will be socially equitable both in terms of efficient use of funds and in terms of the fact that a person is no longer unemployed. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to adopt the law in the first reading and taking into account your position to rework it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u123	Valérie Assadchev is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u124	Valerius Assadchev. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, the Ukrainian People's Block of Kostenka and Plush. Dear friends! In Ukraine in general, there is a very bad practice in that pensions are not provided by the only pension law and not by the only standard. We now have the vast majority, 90 percent, or maybe more pensioners living under the only pension law and there's a certain caste of people, and we have to say frankly, it also includes the national deputies who are provided with special laws -- both the status of the national MP and the status of judges and prosecutors, and so on. Of course, the question that we're looking at today doesn't solve the problem of identifying legislation, but it at least makes it equal to the rights of all pensioners. So today, if these special laws provide one percent of our wealthy people with a pension, we can't. They eat up such a portion of the pension fund that they do not allow the pension to be raised to underprivileged categories. And that's why the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that those pensions that are taxed should be limited to some top level. Today this threshold in the budget has been voted 12 and we believe that there should be no more than 10 minimum pensions for this threshold. And I want to say that in Ukraine today, when a person, if he wants to have a very big pension, he can have it, we have non-state pension funds. Let's develop them, every person can put money there, let's think about how to store these funds, and then the person who's more wealthy gets a bigger salary because of this non-state pension fund can raise a pension. And those pensioners who receive, as it were, from our general pension fund must be in the same system as those who receive a large salary. Therefore, our proposal to all the bills listed above is: the law on compulsory state pension insurance, on public service, on the status of judges, on the prosecution, on the service of local self-government, on the status of the national deputy, on scientific and scientific technical activities, to make such changes that the maximum amount of pension assigned to these laws cannot exceed 10 minimum pensions per age. We believe that these are very socially just laws and we ask them to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u125	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. Please, Karmazin. Prepare Matviyenko. Dear friends, we haven't heard from Karmazin in a while. This session had not yet had his way out to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u126	Thank you, dear friends, for such popular love. Dear National Deputies! Obviously, today you have to decide which decision to make and when you go to this rostrum, I have two men talking inside. One man who wants to make it social justice as suggested by his colleagues on the left and on the right. The second man, who opens the Constitution and reads, thinks, analyzes the decision of the Constitutional Court, including the decision of the Constitutional Court of October 11, 2005, where it is written, not to recognize as constitutional the provisions of the laws that set limits on the size of pensions, including by establishing their marginal size. So somehow it's interesting between morality and law. But at a time when pensions are lower than the minimum of living, we need to look for ways to survive. We need to figure out today and find a way out that everyone needs to lower their pension or as much as possible raise their pension to the levels that others get. It is clear that if you go to the steps that the government is offering or that the Communist colleagues are now offering, or if you have colleagues from the right camp who are all competing who are more loving. Government to 12 down. And then we say, you see, we offered, but we didn't. So let's find the gold inside, and the gold inside is in one. First, we cannot ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court. One. Second, we cannot violate article 22 of the Constitution, where it is written when new laws are passed, what can we do? Decline and violate rights. The other one. And the third. If you make restrictions and you have to do them now, I'm stressing this as a politician, not as a lawyer, but as a politician, you have to write them temporarily and write what time it is. That's why I'm proposing to adopt a government bill, but because there's one other thing that's very important that those who have received early retirement and still work have the right to work, they're not supposed to get a pension at this time, and for that I prefer the government project. So let's write that for a year, and then we're going to bring it all together, so we're going to raise all the other pensions. That's my offer, I think it's close to a construct, to an understanding of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u127	Sergey Matvienkov, get ready for Vasile Narazhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u128	Matvienkov, 55th District, Socialist Party faction. Dear friends! But I don't really understand when we started looking at one of the most painful issues as our ranks, so to speak, quite a few of the factions just sort of evaporated out of the room, because the question that really concerns the samplers. Unlike Carmazin, there's nothing in my soul that fights in half. I clearly understand and see those who have been honest, conscientiously odoured, pardoned for such rudeness, and have received a minimum pension to date. These are the people whose hands were created by the Soviet Union, the people whose hands were created by the Industrial Bridge of Ukraine. When we were working on the basic law and Hotch, including, so to speak, we were involved in the process. We've seen that the consolidated system that is today, it's not progressive, it's abnormal. And unfortunately, we have this situation that we all have the same pension contributions, and that's why we have a different retirement benefit, depending on who's involved in the profession. Tell me, what's the difference between a truck driver and a cop or a judge? What are they, who love more or less their homeland? Why is one person calculating a pension one by one and the other one calculating a pension by one? Or at the service? You're gonna tell me, please, a doctor is that he's not working for the Power today? Or a teacher, is he not a civil servant? And who does he work for, excuse me? Why does the category of civil servant define some incomprehensible configuration? This configuration is determined according to where and how a person sits in a white house. And as a consequence, we get two people retired. One considers the percentage of his salary to be multiplied by the number of years worked. The second is retired, with 90 per cent of the salary. As a result of all of this, there is a 332, one who has worked as well as the others, and the other has 12,000. And I don't know how you explain to your pensioners. I cannot explain to my own why the difference between pensions and what they have done to our state. Of course, the proposed bill would not solve all the problems that we are proposing, but it would at least put an upper limit. Let's stop these pensions by 12, by 13-20 thousand. Let's lower it. And the means that we're going to have to send them to, we have the category of most injured pensioners. These are the people who retired before the year 92. These are the people who have truly worked honestly and in good faith, who have invested in the Pension Fund what they have been given. But they remain the most vulnerable to this day. That is why we discussed this issue at the faction. We have made a decision and we support everyone. But we are also in favour of changing the methodology in general, the calculation of the pension, and the methods of accruing the pension must be the same for all. There can be no restrictions, but there must be methods. Wage percentage, number of years worked. All of it. There can be no more methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u129	And that's right. Basil Nadrag, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u130	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Head of the Retired and Retired Subcommittee. I think it's the right thing to do today to think that the justice of pensions is, was and, most importantly, should be. Regrettably, these bills that we are offered raise questions. Although I think that the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, 8445-1, is worth the maximum attention. Of course, justice cannot be allowed to make such a great difference between retirement in principle and those of the same age. Although I cannot agree with my colleague who has spoken and asked questions here, he does not know why it is. Well, my dears, because that's the legislation I've adopted with you. Next moment. The law should then be read, it would be understandable where the pension was given to a civil servant, a policeman, a blacksmith and an Afghan, and where the pension was given to a person under labour law. Next moment. As far as justice is concerned, I believe that justice requires, not as much as pension insurance as it needs to be done, but primary. The primary issue is the amendment of pension legislation, pension insurance. These are the decrees that have been adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And let us remind the country once again in this room, and to ourselves that the pensions, when they grew to 18-20 thousand, were after the Cabinet of Ministers' decree in 2005. And when they start to say that someone here has a lot of money, I ask this question: "Dear members of the government, make a decision to take off your salaries at 18,000 will be easier for you. In any case, those MPs who are so fond of waving at all angles, our representatives of the executive branch, we receive wages of 5,000 bracelets. This is much more than the main mass of the people, but it is not the 20,000 who receive ministers and not the 8,000 who receive a press secretary. I would like to ask: “How much has the press secretary done, and in what normal civilized country does the press secretary get so much that the parliamentarian is ashamed to know that he receives half of it?” Therefore, in all the discussions on justice, I think the first and most fundamental is to be responsible for everyone's actions, including those of the Cabinet of Ministers, who, unfortunately, and the current Cabinet of Ministers, will not be offended. Cancel, and the subject will go to zero in the vast majority. And last of all, maybe. There's a lot of talk about how we have some generals here who got a pension or a salary of 140,000. I ask the Cabinet of Ministers: “My dear ones, whom were put in prison, on whom were criminal cases brought for the misappropriation of State funds on a particularly large scale? “ Because the person who has signed such a salary is the accountant who pays, they know that the personal responsibility for the financial theft of government funds on a particularly large scale is specific articles to be answered. That's why I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One George opened the debate, the other closes. Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the attention of society is drawn to the Nardeps, prosecutors, scientists, military officials, judges, civil servants, officials of local self - government agencies who receive too much pension. This is, to some extent, a fair point. The bill, introduced by my colleagues Simonenko and Dibenko, proposes to limit these pensions with a minimum of 12 living minimums for those who have lost their jobs, i.e. today it is rounded down to 4 thousand dollars. It looks like justice is going to be established, but let's think with you that we're all right in this case? How many are we going to invite into order? It's not hard to figure it out. And then we're going to distribute this saved amount by 14 million. Deprived pensioners, veterans, disabled persons, and an appendix of three, four, up to five bracelets. Will social justice be achieved in this case? Of course, in part. But a sense of moral justice will be satisfied with our people. And that's why I want to pay attention to our common ground: and where is the dog actually stuck, and why is it distracting from the same dog? To date, the vast majority of society is living on no wages as in Soviet times was income. And in income, wages make up only the first percent. An example. Today, more than four thousand dollars a month are already receiving hundreds of thousands of people, even millions of those who receive such incomes. We have an income of more than one million dollars a year. People, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, That's where the dog is. So let's say we're with you -- we need to limit not only the size of the pension, but the income pensions are a progressive scale of taxation, which, unfortunately, is today. Why is there a progressive income tax scale in capitalist and socialist Sweden, and we don't have one in a country that's struggling with its orange powers in Europe? So justice will be established only if we introduce such a progressive scale of income tax. And then not only pensioners, but those who receive and work, they'll work for society and then they'll be set up, if not a social paradise, even if they're getting closer to social justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I continue until the meeting is concluded. Please, for the reasons of the vote, Porovsky, 1 minute. Steps to prepare. You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u134	The Rebirth Party faction, Mikola Porovski. Dear fellow MPs! The Rebirth faction believes that high pensions should be limited, as this applies to the category of civil servants and officials who receive a considerable amount when they retire. Outgoing aid. Minister Bilokin, who retired, received 250,000 initial assistance in connection with his retirement and the Board of Auditors found this to be legal. So we think that social justice should be achieved precisely because the amount of the pension should depend primarily on the working age of the individual. We support the law on the maximum pension limit and we ask you to vote on it. The "Rebirth" faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u135	The butthole. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u136	Vladimir Stupak, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy Today, there is a great imbalance between the pensions of most Ukrainian citizens and the corresponding provision of many officials, since most retirees receive a minimum pension of 350 dollars while the pension is several thousand, tens of thousands of people are worth thousands and even tens of thousands of dollars. This puts the majority of Ukrainian citizens in unequal conditions, and this is contrary to the Constitution, which guarantees equality of rights and freedoms of citizens. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka proposes to support this bill, such as the John the Rabbit bill, and asks for support in making 10 minimum wages, pensions. Please support the John the Rabbit bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u137	Vladimir Cherniak. Yes, please, Sergey Sinchenko. Igor Šurma. Is there a son? Please, it's my son's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u138	Clearly, too large a gap between the pensions of some categories of citizens and the major mass of others is causing a fair dissatisfaction of society. So there are two ways to handle this injustice. First, limit the top of the pension to one. And the second is to raise those who receive lower pensions to the level of others. Such a course is much more complex and requires great effort, but it is most constructive because it puts the welfare of the whole society first. But now the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko supports the political efforts of the drafters to establish justice in this matter. At the same time, we do not agree to referring to the categories of military personnel and citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Under these conditions, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u139	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u140	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] There is no doubt that the difference between pensions should not exist 50 times, even from the point of view of common sense. These bills seek to ensure social justice among pensioners by limiting the maximum amount of pension. One thing, however, is surprising: why the Government did not have a literate, small-scale lawyer who would remind the Constitutional Court of its decision of 11 October 2005, which was declared unconstitutional by the laws of Ukraine, which set limits on the size of pensions, including by establishing their marginal size. And then there's no proposal to limit the marginal size of both bills. In our view, this is not the case. Until government officials give up high wages, there will be a problem of high pensions. And today all of these performers of duty, including those who are freed and paid their wages is Headmaster, that's Platchev -- they're illegally getting high wages, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u141	Or maybe they don't get a payday. And we have colleagues who don't go to the register. Well, maybe it's the same. Yes, please, from the committee of Cibenko, and we will be determined. Cibenko as the author of the bill, and now as the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear colleagues, the committee, unfortunately, did not consider the bill of John the Rabbit, because it only came to the committee last night and could not see it physically. As for the other two bills, I would like to say this: the committee is still proposing to take the basis of Bill 8445 and here are the reasons. We're ready to support the Cabinet of Ministers bill, but except, firstly, the Chernobyl Act, and secondly, I think we need to draft a bill on mandatory government pension insurance. Helen Vasilovna, let's understand that in order to list this list. The National Pension Insurance Act requires a person to live for 200 years and to work for 180 years. Only then will she be able to approach, not exceed, but only to get closer to that plank. So I propose to support Bill 8445, but the Communist faction will vote in favour of the document proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-07-m0.u143	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. You rightly point out that we have dealt with the most unjust case. the areas of pension insurance. And really, there are lots and lots of gaps. And the drafters are trying to count them. Retirement laws have divided our society into black and white. Yeah, let's just define ourselves for the discussion. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to limit the maximum amount of pensions. Registration number 8445. The authors of the Simonenko and Cibenko Bill, whose purpose is to limit pensions to a maximum of 12 minimum subsistence minimums. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:29]] For 128 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 5, Communists – 55, People's Party – 6, “Our Ukraine” – 8, Block Timoshenko – 11, Socialists – 12, People's Block Lithuania – 1, Social Democrats – 0, National Party, Ukrainian, Sorry, National Party – 14, “Rebirth” – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 4. [[United]] The adoption vote is based on a first reading draft of the Law of the People’s Deputies of the Hare on making changes to certain laws. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't have them like that. I'm sorry. A government bill amending some of Ukraine’s pension laws is put to the vote. Registration number 8445-1. The point is that 12 minimum pensions at the age of the working pensioners should not receive pensions, and these pensions are limited to a number of categories. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:08:03]] For-136 Dear colleagues, there was. Now, now. There was an offer to remove it from this law. The factions? Let's see the factions. We have the right to remove it from the first so it doesn't go to the second. “Regions of Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 55, National Party – 8, “Our Ukraine” – 12, Block of Timoshenko – 13, Socialists – 12, National Block – 0, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People – 13, “Rebirth”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, “Reforms and Orders” – 4, “Only Ukraine” – 1, “non-fractional” – 4. There was a proposal, such as the head of the profiling committee, that she and others should be removed from the government project to amend the Chernobyl law and vote on the rest. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Government Bill 8445-1 excluding amendments to the law on persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:09:27]] For-123 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 54, People's Party – 10, “Our Ukraine” – 6, Block of Timoshenko – 11, Social Party – 14, People's Block – 0, Social Democrats – 0, National Party – 15, “Rebirth” – 0, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs – 1, National Movement – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 5, “One Ukraine” – 1, non-fractional – 4. And we have another bill to amend some of Ukraine's pension laws, registration number 8445-2 of the Hare People's Deputies, which suggests that this maximum pension size should not exceed 10 minimum pensions per century. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] Let's support the Hare that got into the accident, unfortunately. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:44]] For-143 The decision is not taken. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 54, National Party - 7, "Our Ukraine" - 11, Block Timoshenko - 12, SPI - 18, National Block - 3, Social-Democratic Party - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, "Rebirth" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, National Movement - 6, "Reforms and Orders" - 7, "One Ukraine" - 1, non-fractional - 5. So, unfortunately, all the bills have been rejected. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 4:00 p.m., the extension of the evening session. Good luck.
