ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets. Today, July 25, the morning session of the Supreme Council opens. I ask the deputies to prepare for registration, insert the cards, prepare for registration. [[10:00:59]] There are 298 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Andrey Mikhajlovich. Let us welcome him to this event. True, he is 32 years old, with nothing to say to, in principle, quite young. Nevertheless, he understood the significance of the event. Today, according to the Rules, we have time to declare statements, petitions from the factions of the Supreme Council. So I suggest from each faction that I wish to express myself. Please sign up for this talk. Yavorowski, please. From the faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u2	Honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine, distinguished winners of the recent election! I'd like to say a few moments on behalf of our faction. Well, first of all, we're really unique with you deputies, because it seems to be the shortest cadence in the history of Ukraine, but we've already done a lot of parliamentary nonsense for this brief cadence. I just wanted to remind you that today can really be a historic day, and we'll see if there's a strong, willing, faithful President in the country. I'm sure that's what's going to happen today. And for our voters, I would like to remind you that Portugal had an early election in 2005, there were only three consecutive elections in Germany, there were three consecutive elections in Israel, and there were three consecutive elections in Slovakia, one in Turkey, one in Slovakia. Because of this, there is no danger. In fact, early elections in many democratic states were very small, when just, say, MPs couldn't find a common language. As a result, I am convinced that the President will today make the decision that will benefit the Ukrainian people and our progress. Two, what I'd like to say. Strangely enough, such a bouquet of well - known personalities, people, has gathered. I've already said from this rostrum that we're only interested in our spirituality, our culture, and, in fact, almost nothing, maybe there's more aircraft building there, and so on. But I don't know what's going to happen in the state. So it seems that the huge threat to the energy crisis is because from the Committee of Culture, the first deputy, the famous, outstanding artist, the Ukrainian Tobacco Jan, is filing a statement from the first deputy in the fight against corruption. With Bayan, we will fight corruption today. Similarly, from the Committee on Freedom of Speech, from the Committee on Culture, Mr. Rudnik and Selivov come and go either into a fuel complex or into a fight against corruption. People good, regionals, my dears, you don't have any cultural people anymore, that there's only one person left to the Committee on Cultural Affairs, is there an Actor of the Clown from the Communists and Yuri Baldwin from the “Regions”? Do you have, like, no more people, no more need for culture? I conclude that, dear colleagues, we've done a lot of stupid things with you, but I'm sure today will be a great day in Ukrainian history. For the first time, as people unable to find a common language, we will bring our destiny to the people’s attention and he will say the final word. Whoever wins then will be the winner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u3	Please, I'm asking you to calm down. And let's not comment on the speeches from the rostrum. And there's only one clarification. Vladimir Alexanderovich made a mistake, not a fairy tale, but an accordion. Please. Please, Chukmasov. Who's speaking from the Socialist faction? Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u4	I have been asked to announce a statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Yesterday, July 24, a Ukrainian national deputy with a shameful criminal past from the Julia Timoshenko bloc, spoke with a sublime provocation against the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and leader of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, without having to charge him with corruption. The allegations of a convicted sex offender with the masks of an apherist could be ignored if this provocation had not been so clearly presented to the developed and executed by Yulia Timoshenko and some factors from the Bank and Company, moral and political terror, the discrediting of the Supreme Council and the new anti-crisis coalition for the sole purpose of destroying parliament, undoing political reform, re-establishing the authoritarian regime in Ukraine, preventing the authorities from addressing pressing, economic and social problems. There are organizers and instigators in this campaign who, by their malicious, deliberate actions, cause Parliament to be dissolved, do not slander and lie openly. Alexander Moroz, as one of the moral authorities of the nation, is an honest and unforgivable politician, is causing them special zoological rage because he is hindering the achievement of their deceitful intentions by pretending to be a patriotic part of Parliament, burying parliamentaryism and democracy in Ukraine, subduing their Napoleonic ambitions to Ukrainian politics and the Ukrainian people. The Socialist faction warns the Ukrainian society of the danger that threatens the state of irresponsible political adventurers who are willing to throw the state and people into chaos for the sake of official, leather interests. It is the ambitions and hooligan actions of Julia Timoshenko and her forces in the Supreme Council that destabilize Ukraine, disgrace it in front of a civilized world. We require the Attorney General's Office to investigate the allegations of slander against the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, and to bring the guilty to justice. At the same time, we require the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Henprosecutors to provide the Supreme Council with information on the presence of criminal elements and citizens with criminal history in the Yulia bloc, to protect Parliament from slanderous campaigns and insinuations. The Supreme Council itself should protect the people from the lies of political adventurers by giving proper credit to professional provokers and liars who do not belong to political forces. Now, let me just say a few words about the current situation. I want to address the President of Ukraine. Dear Victor Andryovich! You can see what's happening on the streets of Kiev, in other cities of Ukraine. There is chaos, insolence, and the street, by no means surprising, became the center of power. You have a personal responsibility for constitutional order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u5	Finish the thought. Please, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u6	He should be quoted, but not by the dissolution of the Supreme Council, although this is your blue dream of burying constitutional reform. We urge you, Mr. President, to come to the session room and discuss the political situation in Ukraine with the deputies. In order to stop the escalation and the turmoil and the chaos, and to stop the breakup that is taking place, in the end, and in the session room, by destructive forces in our country. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u7	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u8	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, on behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to express some views on the current organization of the work of the Supreme Council and the developments that are unfolding in us in Ukraine. The first, personally convinced and my comrades on the faction are convinced that the President, his political environment, has no argument and no reason to question the question of building public opinion, especially in the form of a decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council. First. Why am I talking about this? For one simple reason, it is the Supreme Council, by the forces of the crisis coalition, that we have in Ukraine, in the system of power, remain the only branch of power in power. It is in a position to decide, discuss and impose specific tasks through legislation to address certain problems. The forces, which the President and the political forces, who had been in power for a year and a half, now in Ukraine, had proved to be unmanufactured. The President is simply reluctant to resolve many political, economic and social issues. The Cabinet of Ministers has been inoperative since January of such a month. The task was certainly decided by the President and made a statement on the basis that he was personally involved in the collapse of the Orange Team, all attempts are being made today to destroy the anti-crisis coalition. He doesn't need democracy in Ukraine, he doesn't need capable power, he needs today, as the main goal of his actions, to keep it in power by a corrupt, oligarchic environment and family, once again, to restore the structure to power. Therefore, the process of transferring power from the President's Administration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a process of realizing the possibility and certain political reforms that he is naturally hindered by the President, because he is unable to realize his capacity today, does not wish, does not want the Supreme Council to further ensure all democratic transformation in our country. It was as if “the king of the Swartz ordinary miracle had spoken of him when his beloved wife was strangled, he stood nearby and comforted, the victims might be spared”, as we can see, and the people of Ukraine would rise up, defend their constitutional rights to power, to the responsibility of power and to govern the country. Therefore, respectable colleagues! I think it is necessary for us today, through the mandate of the President of the Supreme Council, to ask the President to attend the evening meeting today, that is, at 4:00 p.m., and finally to explain to the Ukrainian Parliament how he sees the formation of power in the future. And as he is the guarantor of the Constitution, he promises and plans to implement the decision on political reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u9	Who from "Our Ukraine" will be speaking? Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Let me say, first of all, that I will try to speak very tolerantly right now and let me also inform you, honourable people's deputies, that some decisions and some, in particular, statements by the leadership of the Supreme Council, as well as some political leaders, cannot prevent you from calling some alarm into the deputies of our faction. In particular, I would like to point out once again that the decision made yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is entirely not based on the legal environment, but on the political situation. This decision only oppresses the situation, and it does not give us the opportunity to find a way out of the situation, and we must be aware of it. And, Alexandre Alexandrovich, in particular, would now like to address you in connection with your earlier address, which, in my view, is no less pressing the situation than to find ways to relieve the tension. I can't understand how you could, Alexander Alexanderovich, find reasons to say yesterday that there were adventurers near the president who were advising him and that you had no idea why. If there are, Alexander Alexanderovich, adventurers who push the President into unconstitutional steps, they should be named after their names. What might also be the basis for assessing whether to compare today's situation in parliament with the situation that occurred in the early 1990s in Moscow, which just ended in a tragedy for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. What could have been the basis for using replicas such as “tanks” to talk about shooting and talking about saviour when no step on that point was taken by the President, who did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. What might be the basis for the request of the head of state to violate exactly the 15th day's term set by the Constitution of Ukraine and to demand that the President of Ukraine now, without any justification, no longer apply for the post of prime minister of Ukraine. What might be the basis for saying that if the Constitutional Court does not work, the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself can interpret the Constitution. I can go on with this list, because that's exactly the kind of action and that kind of expression that could create a situation that could be characterized as a swastika. And so I call upon you, honourable national MPs, Your Honor Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, let us be more restrained both in our actions and in our statements. Because we're also interested in having such an Ukrainian Parliament work and the Ukrainian Parliament remain a bastion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Does he have the word, which one of the factions of the “Regions”? Richter's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The faction of the Party of the Regions has asked me to express my position. I want to start a little bit with the analogy. Math has a concept of constant and variable values. This concept of constant and variable values is also in politics. Politics are changing, there are political preferences, there are political situations. But the people and the nation formed by the nation are a constant, great, constant force in politics. And from that point of view, our people, having gone through a difficult election, determined that they were the winners of the elections, brought five political forces to Parliament and gave them the right to represent their interests to all the voters of Ukraine here in the Supreme Legislative Authority of our country. The elections are defined by all the world's leading experts as democratic, fair and undisputed, and the results of the elections are legitimate for all. Parliament has created a coalition, Parliament has chosen the leadership of the Supreme Council, Parliament has set up committees to form them, and through their leaders has given the right to continue to function in the Ukrainian legislative field. Parliament has begun to overcome the political crisis and is able to continue to overcome it, ready to appoint a prime minister, to form a government, that is, to demonstrate all possibilities and steps to stabilize the political situation in the state. Unfortunately, however, there is no submission to the Prime Minister, why all attempts to form a government and the political opposition of certain political forces that began in Parliament are blocked today on the street where citizens are distracted from regular work, where people are willing to go to the wall, where the situation in the regions unfolds, and the authorities of local self - government cannot give our population what they are calling for by the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Can we, as the country's greatest party, as a party of winners, as a parliamentary faction that has formed a coalition that is responsible for all its political steps and keeps its promises to the electorate, continue to observe what is happening in society and continue to blow into the skeleton that they have set on fire.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u13	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u14	I am convinced that our proposal will be accepted by Parliament in a normal and adequate manner. Our proposal is as follows. It is necessary to hold meetings of the Supreme Council, to invite all the national deputies, and to indicate one agenda for the political situation that has arisen in the country and the outcome of the political crisis. We propose to invite the President of the country of Victor Yushchenk to this meeting and to discuss openly in front of our electorates in this room our further steps and our further cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u15	We have concluded discussions or statements from factions provided for by the Rules. What do you got? Just a minute. Taras Black6ovil begs for his word. I'm the only one who's addressing the MPs, are we gonna give him the word or not? I'll put it to a vote. For reasons of vote. Who's in charge of giving the word to Taras Blackwall? [[10:21:50]] For 241 Please. ‘For’ — 241.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u16	Honorable fellow national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, faction of the Party of the Regions in connection with yesterday’s statements. BUYU Láška wants and insists that the Attorney General's Office immediately resume the criminal investigation into the death of former Interior Minister Yuri Kravchenk. I'm reminding you that one of the first to be on the scene of Kravchenk's death and then persistently spread information about his suicide was the former head of the U.S.S.A., the national deputy of the Yulia Timoshenko faction Alexander Turkinov. We want to know whether the Turk involved in Kravchenk's murder and yesterday's statements, why I'm accentuating it today, yesterday's lying statements by his state-of-the-art provocateur, or how in the old days, who remembers the '70s, '80s, it was called "sexo", Lyashka, is an attempt today when a number of actors and employees and internal affairs agencies and other services openly say it was murder, or whether it's not an attempt to distract society from reopening the prosecution of Kravchenk's case. I would like to remind you that Turkinov has done everything he can to stop the investigation of the George Gongadze case, in fact, by warning General Pukac, who was in Israel about possible detention. Thanks to the Turkish Pucker, Gongadze’s case has disappeared. Does this have to do with the death of a former minister? I want to remind you. What we can also talk about today is the direct attachment of two things: the Gongadze case and the Viacheslava Cnerovola case, since those figures who disappear are in common with them. Therefore, I also have a personal motive to turn to and see if Turkinov’s actions are suppressed and to investigate the case of Viacheslav Cnervol. Turkinov and Ljashko have repeatedly referred to what they said to be an illegal interrogation, accusing the wife of President Catherine Yushchenko of other colleagues of the then orange coalition. Small provocations have confused Gongadze’s investigation, disrupting their orange coalition. Today their goal is to prevent the democratic development of society through illegal manipulation into the power of a new dictator. That's why they're throwing away the lie, hindering a transparent investigation, getting a clear answer to the question: what happened to Gongadze, who killed General Kravchenk before he was questioned by the Attorney General's Office in the Gongadze case, and how did the current provocateurs of Turkinov and himself relate to all of this? It seems to me that the very answers to these questions today can give a great deal in explaining both the general political situation and the conduct of one of the factions of the Supreme Council, as the earth is starting to burn under some of the feet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u17	I propose both to Taras Cnervol and to John Sidorovich Bokom on these claims to specific MPs for their statements and other things to form their reasonings into parliamentary inquiries. Then we will be determined by the order provided for in the Rules. Here we go. Yes, I am answering the questions Roman Mikhailovich had asked me about my speech yesterday. I acted as the Head of the Supreme Council, who defends Parliament's interest -- first. Secondly, I acted as a citizen as a national deputy. I have the right to comment on what's going on in the state. I didn't call it a last name, and the truth is, I don't know the names of all the adventurers who are, let's say, surrounded by Viktor Andryovich. [[Applause]] Just like I can't tell you who might be in my environment as an adventurer. So it's obvious that other people can say that. I wasn't talking about shooting. I was talking about the disgraceful tragedy that happened in Russia in 1993, and it was provoked by the opposition between the President and Parliament. You remember how this was done. And by the way, no political party other than the Socialist Party (I don't advocate in this case, I'm just talking about fact, called this event barbarism, which was allowed in Russia. I don't want anything like this to happen in Ukraine, and I'm convinced that Victor Andriyovich, as a nationalally elected president, will never let anything like this happen. And now another circumstance. Today, in several speeches, there was a proposal to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council on, on a daily basis, the political situation of Ukraine, and I think that there are more circumstances than there are, enough or more arguments about the need to hold such a meeting. There is an offer to invite Victor Andryovich Yushchenka to this meeting. If you support such an offer, then at 4:00 a.m., I'd like to write a letter on your behalf to the President if you'll support such an offer. I think wait, the form of the sitting, it's open, closed, or we'll figure it out ourselves. But I'm voting on this proposal. Please. Please. [[10:27:32]] For 242 Decision taken. The language is, I'll explain one more minute, it's a simple procedure, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to invite Victor Andryovich. That's it. For reasons, please. Write down who wants to get the word. Please. Five minutes, please, take it. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u18	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm a little surprised by the politics you've chosen, covering up the words of reconciliation, looking for adventurers in a strange environment, not seeing logs in your own. You can't see that yesterday, under your leadership, the Supreme Council took the first provocative step. Now you're proposing and preparing to do the next one. Please tell me, do you, such an experienced politician, know the rules of Parliament's relations with the head of state? Do you really want to call the President to you for the envelope? And you think the Supreme Council Order invites his courts to invite him. Alexander Alexanderovich! I'm asking you to hold back your ambitions, your emotions, if you want to invite the President, first agree with him and you don't need any Supreme Council regulation. Don't provoke the opposition, in Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovich, look for adventure in yourself, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u19	I say again, we don't take any decisions, it's about the invitation of the Supreme Council, I address the President, he can, he can't, he won't come, he won't come. Please. Borszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u20	Borschevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine. I support the initiatives that the deputies have made that we need in this critical situation for our country to meet in this room at 16 hours, to invite the President and to clarify all these questions, because that is what the whole country is waiting for. It is therefore necessary to hold this meeting immediately in order to put an end to these political struggles and to address social issues, energy prices, economics and other issues that our voters are waiting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u21	Please, Andros.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u23	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u24	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, Alexander Alexander, I see that the flowers and leaves for release have taken the Fatherland. Whether these leaves were filled, give us an answer, and we helped them a little. The other one. In the name of the peace of Ukraine, in the name of the peace of the citizens, the President must certainly come to the higher legislature in Parliament, as they say, if “the mountain does not go to Magomet, let Magomet come to the mountain”. Let him not only listen to BUT, but listen to the position of other political forces. We're sure that here with the President we'll understand, we'll say our position, we'll say our opinion, we'll say we're concerned. And I am sure that the President will make a wise decision, and the only sensible decision today is to put Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to office as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u25	Roman Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u26	Immortal, our Ukraine faction. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, honourable colleagues, if we analyze the current situation, except that the rules on the non-formity of government take place within the framework of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then, to talk about some problems in the existence of a political crisis, except that there is the political will of one faction -- to leave the Supreme Council Hall in the absence of their proposal. This means that both the first and the second problems arose in the lavatories of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This means that those discussions about the imaginary crisis that is being highlighted today and that is being fought by the antichrist coalition are of an inner-parliamentary nature. And so, Alexandre Alexandrovich, the solution to these problems can take place at a round table where all the factions will be represented.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u28	Such problems can be solved through dialogue within Parliament. So our proposal is to start a round table, a national table, where other political forces, not only internal parliaments, could be present. In our opinion, in order to overcome this conflict that has arisen between the political forces and not between the institutions of power in the state, this requires a common dialogue, not the peaks that we will exchange between the government, the parliament, the Parliament and the President, etc. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u29	Thank you. I'd like to do it again. We're done with the time taken, I'm asking, taken to the speech with motive. Dear colleagues! No one is going to call, I would give up this function in general, and I would protest that someone would propose to call the President on a "covert," as Klukkowski said in carpet, in Ukrainian. That's why we're talking about something else. The representatives of the three factions offered to meet today and consider the political situation with the President, because it's actually not easy, even if they consider the situation in Parliament to be the cause. And Viktor Andriyovich is involved in the negotiations and the round tables. I support Roman Petrovich's proposal to convene a broader round table with the participation of all political actors who today influence the formation of social thinking. Perhaps this could be suggested by the President as a participant in the previous round tables and as a person who has experience in managing many acute social conflicts. He'll want to come today, have a more faithful opportunity to accept -- he'll come, he won't have a -- I'm just expressing the position of the Supreme Council, because this invitation has been voted, please. As to Alexander Stoyan’s question. I didn't see any applications for my credentials, no one. And what I'm asking you to do is take off this topic, in general, the political faction or the party is doing what it thinks is effective, but from a legal point of view, these statements do not have any effect yet, no one is going anywhere. As you know, there was an anecdote. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please. He was the first to ask for the word wait for the record yet. Matvienko. I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u30	Thank you. Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council" Block "Our Ukraine". Alexandre Alexandrovich! I want to address you absolutely peacefully as Head of the Supreme Council, reminding you that you are the Head of the entire Supreme Council, not the majority. And I beg you to do, at least, your oath on this rostrum that you will be the Head of the Supreme Council of all. Now, about what you put to the vote and voted. If you need a mandate from the Supreme Council to talk to the president about his invitation, you could have done so. But you have no right, without a draft decision, to ask questions about a special meeting. And since this is a violation of the Rules, you must accept today only that the Supreme Council has given you the right to speak with the President. When it is possible to conduct a project with the president, prepare a project, and vote on it. Once again, I ask you to be the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u31	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I'll try to do it and I'll do it. And we only voted one thing -- the president's invitation. I'll go to him: maybe he -- maybe he can't -- can't. And then we're going to figure out how to hold a meeting. So I'm going to talk to the president, I'm going to write him an official invitation from the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council voted, and we're going to find out if he's here today, and then we're going to vote on the issue. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy Head and Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation" is under consideration. [[Immortal project awarded 21.07.2006, submitted to the Committee projects received 21.07.2006, A. Rudnik projects – 24.07.2006]] Onichuk will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u32	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council’s Rules, in particular article 79, part 3 of this article, provide for the right of a national MP to move from one committee to another for his own. I'd love to. In this connection, there was a ruling in Parliament, a draft Supreme Council decision number 1159 and the relevant statements made by the national deputies working in the “Our Ukraine” faction on the possibility of moving them to other parliamentary committees, I mean others, as opposed to the ones in which they work. In particular, three national deputies from the “Our Ukraine” faction are reflected in the draft decree, Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna, Kelestin Valerija Vasilovich and Kucherenka Aleksija Yuriovich. At the time of my report to Parliament, the national deputies Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich and Kucherenko Alexi Juryovich withdrew their statements because they found it possible to continue their work in the committees according to the decision of Parliament that took place. With regard to National Deputy Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna, in particular, it is proposed to release Olga Volodymyrovna Gerasimük of the National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory public constituency “Our Ukraine” faction of the “Our Ukraine” bloc from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information accordingly, by electing her as a member of the Justice Committee. In doing so, the faction “Our Ukraine ” took into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to concentrate on the fact that today, as part of the Committee on Justice, the national MPs who represent the coalition are represented by the ten people's deputies, and the factions who represent the opposition are eight, eight, I'm sorry. So the point is that this transition of a national MP doesn't distort the proportion or change the majority that the coalition has in this committee today. This is the first time. It's different. As we know, and we approved this document on the Conciliation Council, each faction has a quota corresponding to its representation within the committee. The quota of “Our Ukraine ” is 3.7, or 4 national deputies. Today, there are only three national deputies working on this committee. In making this proposal, the faction “Our Ukraine” has taken into account all regulatory requirements and decisions adopted by the Conciliation Council as a principle in the formation of committees. Accordingly, we are counting on (a) a positive decision by a committee of professionals, that is, the Rules Committee, as well as a positive vote by all national deputies, considering that these are our colleagues. I also note the fact that the fact that the faction's leadership agrees on this assignment is that the draft decree itself indicates that it was signed by the head of the Roman Immortal faction and myself as a representative of the faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u33	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, 3 minutes Rudzikowski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u34	I want to ask you as a faction representative. When we formed committees, the composition of committees, it seems to me that each faction was responsible for addressing this issue and submitting nominations, consulting with the people's deputies. Why did this question come up again, please tell me, considering that man is an expert in this field and went to the committee on the basis of his experience. Is there any other goal of getting some balance in the committee or being pursued by a similar logic and position of the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u35	Thank you for asking, Mikolayovich. You know that it is naturally desirable for Parliament and the Parliamentary Committee to work at least as the basis of the expert in matters that refer to the subject of committee knowledge. At the same time, we are aware that such a situation cannot be achieved, since Parliament is formed as a higher representative body regardless of the professional preparation of whether or not another national MP, and parliamentary activity is required according to the distribution of committees. So if we wanted to achieve this ideal situation, we couldn't do it, it's the first time. Secondly, Mrs. Gerasimuk is indeed working in the field of information space, information policy, and we are also aware that a national MP can and has the right to demonstrate and try himself, in fact, to work on any parliamentary committee, we cannot forbid it. What is more, sometimes it is worth welcoming. So the third thing I'd like to say is that Mrs. Gerasimuk didn't know, I mean, when the proposal was being prepared for the distribution of committees, and that she was being recommended to the committee, the committee on freedom of speech and information. And after this situation was clarified, she expressed her desire to join the Justice Committee. I want to stress once again that there is no policy here, because the proportion of coalition representation and minority representation in this committee is sustained. And this, I think, is the key to making a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u36	Mikola Vasilovich, please respond more quickly. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u37	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u38	Cibenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexandrovna. Dear Mikola Vasilovich, the Communist faction, Cibenko, is the head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. I am especially grateful to you, Your Honor Mikola Vasilovich, for reminding you of the quota of factions for representation on the committee, on the committees. I would like to point out to you that there is no representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons today. I know the selective attitude of the representatives of this faction towards the veterans, but nevertheless, there are bills coming from representatives of your faction, and we need the committee to work. So I would like to ask you: will the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons expect the representatives of our Ukraine faction to work on this committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u40	Dear Peter Stepanovich, I take your statement on this matter. The faction will consider this proposal. Instead, I would also like to point out that in this committee, given that the faction of the Regions, for example, has almost 190 people, there are only two members of the committee who are far from meeting the quota of the specified faction in that committee. Dear colleagues, parliamentary democracy is a skill not only to speak but also to listen. So I'd like to ask you to consider that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u41	Thank you, sit down, please. I am speaking to the Head of the Probation Committee: am I considering this ruling? Please turn the Ephraim microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to make a few amendments. First, article 79, referred to by the previous rapporteur, states that “a national MP who has expressed a desire to move to another committee may make an appropriate statement, in agreement with the head of the delegation to the Head of the Supreme Council, who shall refer it to the committee to which the matter of the Rules belongs”. of the question. We had considered the previous ruling, which had been given, and the order, which had been amended, had not been considered in the Committee. Moreover, quota treatment is wrong. According to the calculation made by the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, the quota “Our Ukraine” in this Committee is three persons, and this quota is fully exhausted. The Committee therefore decided to refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u43	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss matters? Yes. Please sign up. Yes, 11 people were enrolled. Let's take nine minutes. Please, Kravchenko Mikola, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u44	Respectable radios, respected TVs, respected people's deputies, but what can we talk about here? The faction that is going to block the work of the Supreme Council at any cost, the factions that have so far taken committees just in case, understanding that they will lose, and today they are doing exactly the same on committees. My colleague, Petr Stepanović, said very figuratively that the non-participation of the faction on behalf of the previous speaker here in such a committee on pensioners, veterans of war and disabled persons was cynicism in relation to this category of population. Even though you are not disgusted with the committee, with us and so forth, you must respect at least the people who voted for you by mistake. That's why we don't have anything to discuss here, but we have one discussion. I would like to say, my distinguished colleagues, this is where Klukkowski spoke as the President's representative, and let him take the line. It's about you playing with fire today. So that you know on the ground, and Yavorowski, and all of them taken together, who are here telling us what we can do again. Two months of miners don't pay money, coal mines that are hard to get, heat stations don't take it, nobody needs it. Today, there's still a little bit of a metallurgical complex warming up, and then there's going to be a collapse, in front of winter, a lack of gas and so on. What are you thinking? What did you put the country into? If you want people to come out and bleed? You almost did. Today there is a civilized way of dealing with issues, including the one we are talking about. Go back to the committees, send your representatives, work on the committees, and thus get out of the most difficult political situation in the country. She's in your hands, too. Because today you have the negative influence on the President, who, as a non-solid man, as a man who plays under your hip, cannot overpower himself and take a decisive step, can make Janukovic's candidacy as a candidate for the parliamentary anti-crisis coalition and close the issue and quickly begin to prepare for the winter, start working on tariffs and solve the problems of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u45	Thank you. Prokopovich Natalia Volodymyrna, “Our Ukraine” faction. Who? Knyazevich, please. I don't see him, do I? Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I don't think it's ethical for us to talk about this issue right now in the absence of the person we're talking about, I'll remind you what it is about a person who doesn't now have a desire to be elected to a committee, and even when at the committee formation stage, she wrote a statement about her willingness to work on the Justice Committee itself. And the fact that the Supreme Council didn't compromise her and actually didn't want to somehow satisfy the MP's request to work on a committee, it wasn't the deputy's fault, it was the Supreme Council's fault. I'm going to remind you of the situation in which this issue was discussed while the question was being considered, then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said that given the previous activity of the person, we consider it appropriate for him to do his professional work on the committee on the issue of legislative freedom of speech. Deputies! As far as I am concerned, the work of the previous Mrs. Olga Gerasimük does not refer solely to the issue of legislative freedom of speech, including justice. And this is her right, how it will continue to work, because its work, for example, in the field of the media refers specifically to the immediate problems of the people, our citizens, including those related to the wrongfulness of a particular court sentence and their desire to protect their rights by means of a press appeal to the public. In this regard, I believe that the Committee on Rules of Procedure is not entirely concerned and, let us put it this way, has approached this issue with some prejudice. As far as I am concerned, when I consider the matter, it was pointed out to me that a statement written by Gerasimük, an unspecified deputy, was made. In this regard, she is left without consideration. Because of this, I appeal to the head of the committee and to the committee for the opportunity to reconsider this application and make a positive decision. Because direct employment depends on it. Understand that man now remains outside any committee, in fact, there is no job and there is no opportunity to fully exercise his parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Bulba's passing it on to who? Please. High-speed microphone, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u48	Thank you, Stepan Stepanovich, for being able to express my opinion. Dear colleagues, I think it's a difficult question for us today to consider, it's important at least on the part that it's going to arise. And we're going to be looking at a lot of these questions when one of the deputies is looking for their place on a committee. The point is that the fact that the faction did not fully count when seats were identified on committees of one or the other deputies. And why is this mistake coming out today? Regrettably, I did not ask my colleague Onishku when he was making the report, but I did not hear from him how much the Cultural Committee has in its portfolio today, from where our esteemed colleague Gerasimük, in the bill portfolio, comes out. So what's this about? Is there really nothing to do with our committee today and our colleagues coming out of it or other motives? And I think, in general, this practice, it shouldn't have this kind of development, I can give an example with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when there are 17 deputies, today we have 15 and we have statements that someone else is coming out of this committee, I'm not going to call it. I am well aware that the Committee on Foreign Affairs should work with experts, but there were few in our Hall. So I think that this practice should not continue to spread. And once a deputy comes from a committee, someone represents him, represents, I think, the faction itself, they should continue to give a basis for how this committee works, and what load does he really have today do anything about that committee? And for these reasons, not only subjective, but for the desire of any member to move forward, namely, the need for a state approach that this committee should work in one way or another, we should consider the matter and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mikola Vasilovich, what do you want? Who named your last name? Did you misname your last name? Yes, please, One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u50	I'd like to give an answer to my colleague, Shibk. 12 members are working today, 12 national deputies are working on this committee, and I would like to inform our citizens that the minimum number of national deputies in the committee set up by Parliament is 7 people's deputies. So we don't create big problems here, that's the first. Now to the chairman of the meeting. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I think we should now go back to the content of article 79 of the Rules, part one of which says that when elected, including by national deputies, to the committee, the decision shall be voted on without discussion. It's natural that Parliament can move away from this in order ad hoc. But I would like to point out that there is such a requirement of the Rules. And last of all, it's about the profile committee. I would ask, after all, to take a closer look at the analysis of the documents that are being submitted to the committee, bearing in mind that the right of the legislative initiative of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich, for the reminder. I deliberately went to a violation of the standards that you're talking about so that we don't blame ourselves for not having discussed the issue, especially as my last name was mentioned when we formed committees. Let me make this clear: Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna, not in the Committee on Culture, but in the Committee on Media Affairs, Vitaly Yakovic, was the one who allowed the inaccuracies. It's about something else. The Rules Committee of Profiles made the right decision. First of all, it is not governed by the form of the statement, but by the quota. The amount of your faction, the faction “Our Ukraine” for representation on any committee of three national deputies. There's going to be an overcrowd. But that's not important. Most importantly, regardless of the committee's decision, positive or negative, the final decision is taken by the Supreme Council, and we don't have to wait with you for a positive decision on whether or not another committee. If the matter is already being considered in the session room, the session room is determined with a final decision, taking into account the position taken by the committee. So it doesn't matter what decision the committee made, because the committee only recommends it, and the Supreme Council takes a decision of 226 votes. Therefore, I am voting on the adoption of Decree No. 1159 “On the election of Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrini as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, freeing her from her duties as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:01:16]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Yes, please, by the factions. Well, that makes sense. Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 67, Socialists – 3, Communists - 0. I would ask the national deputies who have higher education and the second time in the Supreme Council not to shout out of place, it doesn't suit you, you're not in the area you're representing, you can scream a little bit in the mountains, and here's the session hall. Yes. There's a draft decision, there's a lot of them, and I'd like to ask you, it's 1159-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and I'd like to report them to the head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Operation of the Supreme Council of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, before the report, I would like to make a trailer. I would like to request my colleagues to examine the activities of the Rules Committee not to be heard. We put all the decisions on the Committee's website. There is an official decision, including a ruling that has been considered today, and that is misleading for both those present and those who listen to us do not need to do so. With regard to the matter under consideration. To carry out the commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich of July 19, 2006 to meet the Committee on the 21st of July this year, a statement was made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Matvijčik Eduardo Leonidovic, a member of the Party of the Regions, to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration. Taking into account that the accounting quota for the representation of the Party of the Regions' MPs on the committees is 6 and 9 and, in fact, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster has six national deputies from this faction, i.e. the quota not used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National MP to elect him as a member of the above-mentioned committee and to make an appropriate draft decision for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council's request is clear on this matter. I have an offer. I'd like to announce all the statements that there are. And why does the proposal arise? Because only two statements have made positive decisions because the quota in these committees is not exhausted. For the rest, a negative decision has been taken. And it would be appropriate for faction leaders to come together and agree. We are still in compliance with the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council and the Committees Act of Ukraine, or we will be working with violations and transferring from one committee to another beyond the quota defined. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to make up your mind on this. We will consider each statement, or we will take to the realization that there is a quota principle of representation, and we cannot consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, before speaking to the chairman of the committee, I would like to remind you of one more rule of our ruling on committees and the rule of law. There is an appropriate norm that speaks of the number of deputy committee heads. If the committee is less than 15 national deputies, there are not two, but only one deputy and the first deputy. Now, if we start to change the east like this, we can touch the interests of other factions. If the number of committees is decreasing, less than 15 and there are 2 substitutes, then one of the deputies is automatically losing out on some faction. Who? From which fraction, that is, the arithmetic begins again. So I think let's support the proposal of the head of the profile committee. So let's take this up, ask the faction heads to regroup, together with the head of the profiling committee, for my part, so that we can finally clarify all the regulatory rules. Is there any objection? Who, in order to postpone the consideration of this matter, would I ask to vote? [[11:06:38]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are out of order today. I'm going to have this request, I'm going to have this request, now, dear colleagues, I'd like us to now, I'm going to refer to the committee heads, to all of you worked on the committees. Because you can see that we're doing what the committees are doing in terms of readiness. At 4 p.m., at 4 p.m., we'll meet for an evening meeting. Yes, please, before I call a closed meeting, please sign up for motive and suggestions for five minutes. Please sign up because I see a wish. Yes, please, Gureyev, “Our Ukraine”. He's the next Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u54	Please pass the word on to Onitchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u55	Please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I think you did the right thing when you proposed to move the matter forward. However, we have applied two double standards here: one position we have considered that applied to “Our Ukraine” and all the others that applied to the Party of Regions have been moved. So I would ask you to go back to this issue after consulting the faction leaders in full measure. And if this proposal isn't accepted, we're going to have to re-register the draft regulation, although it doesn't seem necessary. I'd like this to be an agreed position. And second, just reported to the head of the committee, which, inter alia, justified the regulatory committee, the possibility of adopting a decision on the people's deputies of Matthew because the faction of the regions in that committee had a quota of 6.9. Instead, I would. One position, indeed, and has the possibility of an additional faction of the Regions to bring this committee. But on a committee of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u57	Please, Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u58	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, it is most fitting today to hold an evening session with the participation of the President of Ukraine. And I would like to go to Anatoly Sergiyovich right now, who, by commenting on the proposal that was voted on, pointed out that it was wrong, that we invited the President of Ukraine. The point is, Alexander Alexandrovich just proposed to the vote that he sign a letter on behalf of the Supreme Council and invite the President to join us in our work. Why is this so important? Today, with great opposition in the session room, with opposition and on the streets of Kiev and other cities, we don't know the official position of the President of Ukraine, how he feels about the powers he has, and whether he's going to authorize Parliament to use. We have to make official calls today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Sergey Chukmasov, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u60	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Mikola Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u61	Please, it's Rudzkovsky Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich! We have a situation where we have several MP factions urging us to vote on the Special Investigation Commissions. There is one decree by Zaplański to set up a commission of inquiry for bribery in the Supreme Council, a bribery of the national deputies. She's ready and he's ready to report. And another decision on the situation in Chercas, the commission of inquiry, I think it's the employee's deputy. In order to vote on them, the commission of inquiry has been set up, so let them analyze them. The whole of Ukraine is talking about bribes, money, millions of people walking, even hundreds of millions, saying only where they're going. So let's figure out, maybe these millions will come, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u63	Yes, please, Knazevitch, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I support Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk in that we are not allowed to introduce double-standard policies in the Supreme Council when, in relation to the deputy from the faction “Our Ukraine”, we make decisions and resolve this issue, including negative ones, and in relation to other deputies, we are putting this issue on the backdrop. As far as I am concerned, MPs who have filed statements of the need to elect them as committee members should be in equal conditions. That's why I'm calling on the regulator's head. Consider the fact that, indeed, there is no visa for the head of the faction in the application made to the committee by Deputy Gerasimük. In view of this situation, I would like to ask those deputies whose questions will be discussed on the committee to consider again the question of Mrs. Gerasimük and to address this matter positively. Because, you know, introducing double standards to our colleague is already unethical, and in terms of women, it's simply, I think, disgraceful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u65	Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u66	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask, I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, the head, his deputy first. I would not like to see us make very often spontaneous decisions that undermine the plans of Ukraine’s national deputies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not only do the powers of individual deputies who are part of the majority, or the leadership, work for all the Ukrainian national deputies. We all made it clear yesterday that we have 16 committees. We've got a question planned, we've invited reporters. We have up to 16 hours in each individual work plan. And now we're hearing about the 16th meeting. The management expresses the wish of the committee heads to hold a meeting before the 16th, I want to say that it's so simple, once it may be an exception, but I wouldn't want it to be a system in the work of our Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u67	The last thing I'd like to do is start and support your correct comments, your suggestions -- it's not normal, it's totally not normal. But unfortunately, we work in an abnormal situation where every minute requires something. But I'm solid and we're going to stick to it, really so that we can all be purposeful. With regard to double standards, respectable colleagues, there were no double standards, because the decision we first considered was one, the committee's opinion was the other, but that doesn't mean you can't go back to the profile committee with the same proposal. It doesn't deprive you of your rights, we can go back to this issue and when we participate in political faction consultations, I think your factions will raise that question again and we'll talk about it, so we don't have to yell at the Karal, it can still solve that question, just as the session room wants, because the 226 will determine. With regard to proposals for interim commissions of inquiry, there are, indeed, proposals for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry for charges of bribery and corruption in the Supreme Council, one. And two other decisions from the representatives of the “Our Ukraine” Block on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry on events related to the election of the Czech city head. If you don't deny it and there's your will, if there's a will to look at it, who's to look at these decisions about creating these Temporary Investigation Commissions. Please prepare for the vote, and I'll remind you what the rulings are. This is a matter of rulings 1069 of 19.06 – Poživnov, Danilov, Orobec, A tip on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council for violations of legislation during the elections to local self-government bodies in Cherkasa in 2006. 1069-1. The authors Jereshko, Hubsky, Oliynik It's the same thing, the TSC creation decree. Order No. 1169 of July 24. The authors of Zaplański, Danilin, Zubanov “On the establishment of the Provisional Follow-up Commission of the Supreme Council on the Investigation of the Charges of Bribery of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”. These are the three decisions. Who's in charge of considering these three decrees right now, I ask you to vote? Ready. Sorry, don't turn on the "Race" system. Please prepare, I see not all the factions yet, and I still have a reserve on the board. Who is in charge of considering these decrees, please vote? [[11:17:21]] For 251 I mean, we're looking at these questions. I remind you of the Constitution's rule that such committees are created with 150 or more votes, because this is the Temporary Special Commission. There's no need for 226 votes, 150. Yes, please, according to Decree 1069. Who's ready to report? And in general, I would like to go to the representatives of our Ukraine, because this is 1069 and 1069-1, two decisions on one issue on Cherkas. Which one are we going to take, anyway? The point, respected colleagues, is that these decisions are identical. The only thing that is proposed by the Commission's decision 1069 on June 19th is to select the workman, and in decision 1069-1, which was introduced on June 21st, is the commission's chairman to make a proposal to select the Mishchenka, which is the difference, which is what? It's a workman, isn't it? The authors of Bill 1069-1 do not insist that their ruling be considered? Then I'll put it to a vote. Then I am voting for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of legislation during elections to local self-government bodies in Cherkasa in 2006. Registration number 1069, which says to elect the head of the Temporary Investigative Commission of Ukrainian National Deputy Sparrow, please vote. [[11:19:31]] For 241 Decision taken. The commission is in place. For example, I'm addressing the factions' heads, asking them to submit to this committee, to submit a proportional composition to the commission, to the head appointed, and I'm asking you to submit a composition, and then with you, the commission will work. Thus, Decree 1069-1 does not need to vote. Order establishing a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies. Registration number 1169. Reporter, please, Platinum, please. He insists. Let him report for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we are submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate allegations of bribery of national deputies. In recent times, too many words have been made on this subject, with “the back of the mouth. ” It is therefore proposed that a temporary commission be set up, that the head of the interim commission of inquiry by the national deputy of Borstevski, the deputy head of the interim commission of inquiry by the Ukrainian deputy Lukyanov to the Deputies and factions, be appointed to make a request at the expense of one member of the Commission of 30 deputies, but at least one of the factions, to make proposals for two days. I think the creation of such a commission will put a dot in the slanders of those who are today both from the rostrum of this Supreme Council and in the media. The culprits need to be marked: either those who are slandering or those who may have done so, as they say, are the first ones I do not believe in. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u69	Thank you. The raised “forest ” of hands indicates that we are considering the current issue. Please sign up for the question. Please, three minutes. Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u70	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I think it's absolutely right that, when there's a problem across the country, the Supreme Council should respond properly. That is, to create a commission, to find out and report to the voters, to inform the entire people of Ukraine of what is going on. Because we have “divorced” in separate factions of so many “professional provocateurs” who will thus undermine society, because they have a permanent status of elections, they do not realize that the elections have finally ended, the people of Ukraine have said their word and we are obliged to work as deputies, as members of factions, members of parties, in those conditions that the people have defined. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u71	Thank you. It was a wish, Stepanovich. Please, Rudzkowski, follow him, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u72	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter, please tell us the situation that led up to Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who first created a financial pyramid in her faction, according to Deputy Zubik, and he, and many of the deputies in BUT, paid huge money, millions of places on the list to translate, as it were, and answer the real questions, she wants to throw dirt on the national deputies in the session room, including the Head of the Supreme Council, talking about a bribe and accusation. Will the formation of this commission help to remove the baseless charge and put Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko in front of the commission to answer for the money she was taking and her election chiefs to include her deputies in the lists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u73	Thank you so much for asking. When we made this decision with our colleagues Danilini and Zuban's draft, we also meant what we would recommend if we were to elect a head and a deputy, and the members of the committee would hear the issue not only of the accusations of transitions, exits, but I would like to start with how party lists were formed, as who was joining them, it would be very interesting for us. And then we'll deal with the groundless, as I understand it, the charge of transitions or exits. The people who say that judge everyone by themselves, as far as I can tell. And it is not necessary to compare all other people with the convictions of convinced people, to apologize for the Russian word, that a broad coalition today is needed by Ukraine, and only it will bring us out of crisis and unite our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u74	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u75	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on the day the Socialist Party actually decided to abandon the ranks of the orange or democratic coalition, you were sitting behind me and yelling more loudly that the socialists were traitors and the Frost of Judah. At the same time in the evening, you ran ahead, the first to vote for Frost. Please tell me that such a radical change could have taken place, except as a bribe, your beliefs, is it possible that you have been given the position of head of the Committee of Economic Policy under the quota of the Party of the Regions, or is it another? If so, are you ready to give your first witness about the possible facts of bribery or to give up the position of head of the Economic Policy Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u76	Dear colleague, we have a very fine medical facility in the Supreme Council, and I ask you to check your hearing. In order for me to be called Moroz the traitor, I work with him three calls together, and today from the rostrum, I claim that it is better for Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich to be the speaker of the Parliament of the employee. And if you've confused my screams, I never scream in the hall, unlike some, and I don't whistle, and I don't blow. So I'm asking you, if you want to make a statement, make it at the board meeting, you'll get the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m0.u77	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Yes, Your Honor, I am voting on Order 1169 of 24 July “On the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies”. Please vote. [[11:27:57]] For 257 It's been decided. I'm paying attention again, as suggested by that. One out of 30, but from each faction there is at least one representative, a request: to submit to this commission. We are all interested in giving an objective answer to all the hearings, conversations, accusations that go beyond and beyond the Supreme Council. Please don't collect cards. There is also a decision: a project to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies. Number 1049 is introduced in exchange for the registration of July 17 of Skin and Lukyanov, regarding events in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, you remember. Who's in charge of looking at this draft decision now? Please make up your mind. [[11:29:18]] For 244 Let's see. Head. Because we don't have any suggestions, so we don't. Here, dear fellows, again. Yeah, "take over the head of the interim commission of inquiry of the People's Deputies of Skin". Who is responsible for such a determination? Please vote. Let Skin take off her skin. [[11:29:57]] For 241 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all of you and I would ask that this is what we have done now, as an exception, taking into account our situation and what the committees are practically, just created. But then any bill, including those, would have to have a profile committee opinion. I would ask that all such regulations be notified by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, since there is a wide range of regulatory requirements for the establishment of such committees. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Request to work on the committees. Tonight's meeting at 4:00.
