ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:01:09]] There are 406 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Let us turn to the chapter “Other Readings”. We would now like to consider the 2006 Bill, the 2006 draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[on the establishment of the honorary title "The People's Teacher of Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues, let's discuss how we can get out of this situation. On the first reading, you and I adopted this bill to establish such an honorary title and to amend the Law on State Rewards accordingly in the 10th article. A bill of the Cabinet of Ministers came up in two articles – the 10th article, where it is also proposed to establish the title that we have already set up in the first reading – the National Teacher of Ukraine, and the 11th article of this law, where it is proposed to set up for teaching and, more specifically, for public education workers. If you'd agreed to this proposal: since we've already adopted a law and part of it in the first reading, so to speak, regarding the honorary title, we would have taken into account if we had added to the proposal in the Cabinet of Ministers when we finally passed the law in the second reading, so that we could set up the state bonuses. And so today we could generally adopt a law that also takes into account the proposals that we adopted in the first reading and the proposals that came from the Cabinet of Ministers. Is there any objection to this? Then, please, who from the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government? Committee head, please, Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u2	I think that's a good suggestion, and so the committee, although we decided yesterday at our meeting to unify these two laws and pass one law, adding, on the contrary, to the Cabinet of Ministers' Law, added what was proposed on September 14th, but still, and so, I think, I think it will be good. And I think it's going to be good, and I think that the teacher's day is going to have to accept this Law, because a lot of people are waiting for it, and they think that the Law, which is not just going to be a term, is going to be a national teacher, and it's going to be 40% to pay. But 5 scholarships per 100,000, that's going to raise the role of a teacher in our country. The cost per year is only 511,000. I offer to accept and accept the Law as a whole, and we support both the committee and the minister of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u3	Yes, dear colleagues, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, you have listened to the committee’s information. In the 2006 Law, we accepted the appointment of an honorary national teacher of Ukraine. In Bill 2199, the Cabinet of Ministers suggests that we complete what we have already talked about. They talked about adding 11 articles to paragraph 5 of this content: “Ukraine’s state education award for outstanding achievements in the field of education for nominations: pre-primary and extra-secondary education; general secondary education; vocational and technical education; higher education; scientific achievements in the field of education. This law takes effect on January 1, 2007. There's another problem. On the first Sunday of October, yes, on the first Sunday of October we will be with you to celebrate Teacher's Day, Teacher's Day. And, of course, it would be quite normal, as it were, if we were to this world, and by the first week of October, you and I were not going to be able to hold a meeting, we were going to have a law like this. So I'm putting, if there's no objection, a motion to vote on the proposal to adopt the 2006 Bill in the second reading, adding to it a proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers to complete the 11th article on Ukraine's State Prizes in such a context as proposed in Bill 2199, to adopt as a whole as a law. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:06:53]] For 345. Thank you, Your Honor. We passed the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u4	The committee thanks too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u5	Yes, thank you, too. We passed a law establishing the term “National Teacher of Ukraine” and established a national award. Please, one minute, Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u6	Today, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I wanted to thank the National Deputies for their high understanding of our duty to the Ukrainians. I think that on October 1st, when we celebrate Teacher's Day, this message will be pleasant for all of our students. And I think that every area, the Republic, the region will be able to implement its respective prizes. And this will be a big thank you to our educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u7	Those motives. We've already passed the law. Motivation is needed when the law is passed. Please consider a draft law amending the article The Criminal Code of Ukraine. Registration number 1103. From the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement Supreme Council Decision No. 55 of 31 July this year by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes for the Prevention of Terrorism. Registration number 1103. The amendments proposed by the bill to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine stem from the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 31 July this year. Regardless of the fact that the convention ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 31 July this year, and the relevant law signed by the President of Ukraine, the convention takes effect as the law of Ukraine enters into force and changes are being made to criminal and procedural legislation, i.e. the adoption of a bill that we are currently considering with you in the second reading. The draft of the draft for the second reading took into account the comments and suggestions made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and interested authorities such as the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Council of National Security and Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The bill proposed to you has been drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority and the Editorial Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regarding the drafting of the bill adopted in the first reading and the editorial proposed for the second reading, it should be noted that the title of the article, part one, second, third, of the current edition of article 258 of the Criminal Code, “The Terrorist Act”, has been left unchanged. The proposed changes to the first reading, namely: in paragraph 1 of the first part of the first word “and also” was proposed to replace “or”. But this cannot be accepted, since the threat of a terrorist act as a crime itself disappears and becomes part of a terrorist act, a variety of criminal acts. The responsibility for the creation of a terrorist group or terrorist organization is provided by a new article entitled “3” — “The creation of a terrorist group or terrorist organization,” which makes article 258 of the Criminal Code excluded in part four, fourth and fifth. The Criminal Code of Ukraine is also supplemented by new articles: article 258 with a mark 1, the involvement and commission of a terrorist act, article 258 with a mark 2, public calls for the commission of a terrorist act, and article 259 with a mark 4, promoting the commission of a terrorist act. The adoption of these articles stems from the requirement of the Convention on the Establishment of Criminal Responsibility for Public Inciting, Article 5 of the Convention, for involvement in terrorist activities, Article 6 of this Convention, and for training in terrorist activities, Article 7. Considering that all the amendments to the bill have been taken into account, as well as the absence of observations by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, I ask that the law be adopted in a second reading as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u9	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. I'm talking to the people's deputies who made the amendments, because some of them are partially listed here, but it's Mikli Vasilovich. No one insists. No, there is no objection to such a proposal, which is in the comparative table and what Mikola Vasilovich reported is not. Then I am voting on the second reading as a whole as a law on the amendment of article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 1103. Please vote. [[16:13:16]] For 382 The law is passed. We are considering the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, registration number 0944. [[on payment of services]] Report to the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Housing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u10	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, was adopted by the Supreme Council in February this year on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change and Supplements to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act on the Payment of Housing Services. Registration number 8010, which was introduced by the National MP of the previous call, Žizko. In view of the coming of additional proposals, the committee failed to agree to the final draft of the bill for consideration on the second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee tabled a bill re-examined by the Supreme Council for a new call, registration number 0944. Three comments and additions of Ukrainian national deputies were received in further consideration of the bill. The bill proposes to regulate the relationship between suppliers and consumers of residential services when consumers pay only for the services actually received, as well as proposals for the introduction of double or seasonal tariffs on heat. The committee proposes to reject the bill because of the following circumstances. Consumers are paid for heating services today every month at a single rate of one year. Every month for a year at double tariffs. Every month in the heating season at seasonal or double tariffs. There are cases where, according to the consumer’s consent, for example, the USBB’s fee has started since July, with the aim of avoiding a substantial increase in the heating season. With consumers of other groups, payments can be made once in the heating season, and so forth. To ensure that the pricing system is as close as possible to the payroll system, international experts and institutions recommend the introduction of seasonal ones. The fee is included in the heating season or double tariffs. But the Supreme Council in this case can only recommend that local governments implement such a tariff system. In view of what has been said, it is appropriate to leave a valid version of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act and reject the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u11	Thank you. Clearly, respectable colleagues. We must support with you the proposal of a committee that is supported and by the legal authorities on the inadmissibility of adopting this law, of repealing it. I'll put it to a vote. Baby, please. Microphone Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u12	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, the introduction of a rule in law that allows citizens to pay for actually provided housing services, is the right thing to do. Because today they're giving people these services, they're not giving them, but they're putting bills out. And there's no hot water, and there's no heat, and take the check, pay. So let's not, because it concerns so many citizens of Ukraine and especially those who are underfunded, let's go back to the second reading to send this law. Clarify the implementation mechanisms for the payment of services only for services actually provided. But it has to be done, for millions of people who receive money are forced to pay for services they do not receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u13	Please, Alexy Yurilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u14	Dear colleague Easy, I'm like you, and I think there's no man here, no MP in the room who doesn't understand what really in this situation to pay our population only for the actual services rendered. And I want to assure you that today, according to the agreements that have been drawn up, typical contracts and approved by the Ministry of Profiles, by contract, of course, everywhere in these agreements, it's written that only for the services actually provided. But this is the relationship between the consumer and the service provider. They are governed by agreements. And that's why we're saying today that we don't have to make changes to the law. This is the subject of a service agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u15	Yes, dear colleagues, I remind you that this is the second reading. Only those who make proposals can take the floor, and they are unaccounted for. So let go of your hands, please. For reasons of vote, I gave Láška, a representative of the BUT faction. There are still those of you who desire, but from the faction the thought has been expressed. That's why I'm voting on a motion for a committee to cancel a decision on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, registration number 0944. [[on payment of services]] [[16:19:06]] For 246 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 182, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 3, "Our Ukraine" – 17, socialists – 20, communists – 20, non-factional – 4. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing Code, Registration 0942. [[on the prohibition of forced eviction of vulnerable populations]] Report by Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u16	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The committee proposes that the draft Law amending article 116 of the Ukrainian RSD Housing Code should be rejected for what reasons. The bill provides for a ban on evictions without granting other housing to certain categories of citizens: veterans, members of the Great Homeland War, pensioners, disabled persons, incapacitated, unemployed, minors or single persons, as well as families with underage children, whose actual total income does not exceed the fixed subsistence minimum in the event of an untimely wage on the part of the mercenaries, I would like to stress once again the untimely payment paid by employees of utility services. But this legislative norm also provides for the possibility of evicting the rest of the categories of citizens not defined by the bill. According to the Chief Legal Authority, Ukraine’s current housing legislation does not provide at all such a basis for evictions as the debt of municipal housing services. At the same time, the adoption of the bill creates a clear legal rule that allows for the eviction of mercenaries other than those listed in the housing bill in case of debts for residential services. In view of the above, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 116 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code is proposed as a result of the second reading of the rejection. This is also true of the Chief Legal Authority. The committee proposes a draft corresponding decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u17	Thank you. Yes, please write down the reasons for the vote. Yeah, let's take five minutes. Please, Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u18	I'm handing over the can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u19	Oleg Laschka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u20	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. That's when in the last case we didn't support a position to reject the law so that people would actually pay only for the services they consume, because the agreements between subjects -- between a person and a utility -- are good. But your honorary colleague Kucherenko, you know that we have these contracts ignored to the left and to the right, no one looks at the contracts. That's why people need to be protected by law. As far as this bill is concerned, we support it, because if people cannot be evicted today, then if this law is adopted, all the other categories that are legally defined cannot be evicted can be evicted. That is why we support the position to reject this bill. And I suggest you go back to that question and provide legislative guarantees to the people for the services that they really get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u21	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u22	Don't answer that. There's only a vote here. That's absolutely correct, but I would ask you not to give others an assignment. You're exactly the same national MP and you can take the same initiative on your own. Why give priority to someone?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u23	We'll count.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u24	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u25	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Honorable national MPs, on the grounds of voting on the previous bill, may not have been able to figure out what they were talking about. People today pay for the heat throughout the year so that they do not have huge amounts to pay for the winter months. That's why this bill was necessary, and we did the right thing by rejecting it. Regarding this bill, support should be given to the proposal of a profile committee. The thing is, we have these kinds of bills that make people move to social areas, where unemployment, where there's nothing to do and worry about their housing. I want to remind everyone -- that's what the media wrote about -- when in Zaporozhye two unemployed boms on the 6th floor cut off their own batteries and put them on scrap metal. Imagine what happened when the heating system was started. These things have to be stopped in the end. The resources and reserves of social populism are exhausted, let's live by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u26	Stepan Kurpil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u29	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u30	Okay. Vladimir Moses, please. Mikola Onichuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the purpose of this law is and is very important to understand the conclusion, the previous conclusion, in the first reading of the Main Scientific and Experimental Administration – not legal, but the Chief Scientific and Scientific Expert – which says that “to note that Ukraine's Housing Law does not provide such a basis for a declaration as the debt of municipal services, as discussed, but the provision of part 4 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Housing Code regarding the protection of housing rights, except in cases where they are carried out in contradiction with the appointment of these rights, is possible.” That's why we need to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u32	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u33	I have a simple question. Well, how our citizens will have all these retrumps combined with the formation of their very small, modest budgets. How they should interact with the state as founders of the state, where they should go, whether it's the government's prerogative, or whether it's the authority of the local authorities -- these issues are being asked by our citizens, by our people, by our citizens, by our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u34	Please, Hennaday the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u35	I, in principle, agree with the position of the committee and the recommendation that Mr. Kozachenko made here. But we have to think about why we scare people. We keep them under pressure all the time: that's the rise in prices for utilities, that's paying to not pay for the birth of the first child, or even for the birth. We keep society tense all the time. Now we're discussing the possibility of evicting for non-payment. It's a provocation! We have to make sure, first of all, that there are no such issues at all, and we're paying a cop's pension, a cop's salary, and we want him to run there and pay. By the way, the most active payers of their utilities are pensioners, they're very low-security, but disciplined people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u36	Gennady Josephovich, I absolutely support you, the position of why we keep people under stress. But perhaps it is so that they can then be given something and say that they will not. Yes, once again, the committee's opinion. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear friends, I would like to answer in principle. Certainly, Mr. Widow, it is absolutely this position, in my view, principle and intelligence. Let us talk today, on the one hand, about tariff objectivity and consumer protection, but first of all, let us talk about salary and pension levels. It's in this area, not on the basis of housing-communal enterprises, that we have to look at these issues. Regarding Mr. Oneschuk's remarks. I know him as a very well-known lawyer, but I would like to point out how I, as I represent a committee of profile today, understand your point. So we encourage people: don't go after subsidies, don't pay for residentials, we won't evict you. That's why I wouldn't want to go to law school with that kind of Debra or whatever. And believe me, this is the expert conclusion of the committee and the legal department. And please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u38	Thank you. I am voting for a proposal by the profile committee to reject the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Code, registration number 0942, such as one that not only improves, makes the living code worse. [[on the prohibition of forced eviction of vulnerable populations]] Please vote. [[16:29:46]] For 281 Decision taken. A draft Law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act is under consideration. [[on arms advertising]] Registration number 0955. Shevchenko Andrew reports. Yes, please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information on September 6th, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 23 of the Law on Advertising. Its essence in simplifying the order of arms advertising. So the bill proposes to exclude arms advertising from the Cabinet of Ministers. The author argues that this will help avoid the complexity and red tape of arms advertising and military technology. In fact, we all know that weapons are a special type of goods, sale, or export to be controlled by the state. The removal of Kabmin’s right to regulate the order of arms advertising can have unforeseeable consequences. Moreover, the elimination of a unified order of arms advertising could violate the State’s single price and marketing policy of maintaining positions on the international arms market. The committee therefore proposes to withdraw the bill and reject it as one that does not meet the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, the same situation. I think let's support the committee's proposals. We still have here a draft decree from our colleague Mishchenk on the inadmissibility of the bill. But I would like to remind you that there is no such norm in the present Rules. The previous one had such a standard of inadmissibility. Now it's a little bit different. I am voting on the rejection of the amendment law to article 23 of the Advertising Act, registration number 0955. [[on arms advertising]] Please vote. [[16:32:30.]] For 366 The law is passed. I mean, the ruling was passed, the law was rejected. We also have, honourable colleagues, a whole series of short-term bills, which is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. Who is in favour of reviewing this draft bill by a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:33:20]] For 326 A decision has been made. Please, the author of the legislative initiative, Alexander Petrovich Baraniovski. Get ready, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The essence of the law is the following. At the adoption of the 2006 budget, when appropriate agricultural expenditure was approved, and more specifically: to stimulate the production of animal production, articles that allocated funds to financial support for the production of animal and plant production by dating to a unit of production of animal production and per hectare of crops, the words “the head of farm animals, their identification” were mechanically omitted. And that's what this colossal effort has brought. The bottom line is that the budget has 212 million funds for these purposes, so-called special budget support. What kind of budget support is this? It's been going on for years. This is because of the increase in the headship of dairy cows. Today, when the head of the population is cut out to stimulate large - scale production, to increase the headland of the cows, as soon as we buy milk abroad, 1,000 dollars per cow, provided that it has grown the head of the cows, but the head has at least 30 heads in the household. Next. Cows in the meat - bearing direction These are the cows that, you know, are grown, growing meat on a calf’s sauce. There are 1,200 bucks for a cow, 600 bracelets for a tribal farm, and 400 for a grocery store. For these purposes, there are 30 million budgeted, 110 earmarked for previous purposes. One ewe and a brighter one year ago, 14 million are budgeted, or 50 dollars, when at least 50 heads — 40 dollars per head. When buying calves into the population to fill the tribal herd They have to be identified, there's a whole list of documents that have to be, 3 bracelets 30 copies per kilogram of live weight. That is, to prevent the cuts of calves that could be used on a dairy farm from being cut out. Next. Identification of animals of different breeds and pigs. That's 25 million dollars in the budget. This means that an uncle today has no right to sell milk, no farm has the right to sell milk if it is not identified. The budget provides for the cost of billing and 60 percent for the relevant documents. For example, for the population, the identification will cost 13.50, another at the expense of the budget, 15 dollars for large-scale production. For these purposes, 25 million have also been allocated. The funds provided are also designed to stimulate beekeepers. You know, the straps are kept in the individual sector. If he has at least 10 families, that's what he's singled out for, one family of 10 dollars, or 16 million in Ukraine, 10 dollars -- that's now 3 kilograms, even less, of sugar. As a result, the Cabinet of Ministers issued its decree of June 24, 2006, number 876, on how to allocate these funds. But the second paragraph of this regulation states that it takes effect at the same time as the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006. [[on financial support for the animal sector]] Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable deputies to support this proposal and, after the words “the method of subsidisation per unit of animal production” to write that the head of the agricultural animals, the identification and registration, further by text, and per hectare of crops in vegetation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u42	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the head of the Subcommittee, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. Sorry, budget, budget, sorry again, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u43	Dear National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues considered at its meeting a draft law on the introduction of the State Budget for 2006 into the Ukrainian Law, introduced by the national deputy Baraniwski. During the discussion of the bill, it was noted that the revision of the proposed changes to the name of the budget programme did not meet the requirements of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. In fact, Ukraine’s current law provides for a donation to the head of a purebred tribal animal, not to the head of all agricultural animals, as suggested, and to the tribal bee family, not to just every hive. Furthermore, the current law does not provide for the extension of the identification and registration of farm animals proposed in the bill. And personally, I would also like to turn to the national MP who was serving as the APK minister as the subject of the legislative initiative with an understanding of the idea that initiatives should be made by offering additional funds for the village. Because taking financial support for animal and plant production and directing them to finance commercial structures that have to number and identify livestock is not only wrong, it's against the manufacturer. Therefore, in view of the above, the Committee on Budget Questions decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on the outcome of a review by the Supreme Council to refer to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u44	And thank you. This was the opinion of the Budget Committee. Shall we discuss it? Yes, then, please log in. Who is “for ” factions? Yes, Mutz, Bulba. Who is “against”? Yes, please, Oreste Mutz, Party of Regions. Get ready for Stepan Bulby. Short procedure: two in, two in. No, your faction is. Pisarenko signed up, Shevchuk, Kurilo, Yavorowski, all of your factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u45	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. I fully share Mr. Kaletnik's point of view and support the law to be sent for work. Because our area is agrarian and much is not included in this law. It does not really take into account those areas that represent agriculture in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u46	Stepan Bulba, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u47	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. Unlike the previous speaker, I support Alexander Petrovich Baranowski’s position. Just now, literally two days ago, Mr. Assadchev, the head of the district government administration, addressed me on the matter of non-funding from the State Budget for promised loans. If last year the area was 32 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the For compensation, this year practically no funds have yet been made. This compensation, mentioned by Alexander Petrovich, is already stable and is used to by farmers. And all of a sudden, all of a sudden, we're going to turn it off again. I repeat that our livestock needs support. In this case, we could do it. And all this talk about non-producer support, they're not convincing. That is why I am in favour of supporting the position of the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u48	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, what position are you in? Also from the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u49	Thank you. I would like to pass on the word to Vladimir Yavorowski, who will speak better of bees and cattle, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u50	Please, it's Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u51	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko I, my honourable colleagues, would like to state immediately that I deeply respect the Ex-Minister of Agriculture of Baranowski and separate his personality from this bill so that there is no misunderstanding. As an MP, I've seen for myself, as an MP, that all of what we're giving up on the village, part of it was split up on the Kiev level, which was left over, then folded to the district level, divided to the district level again, then something else fell to the district level. [[And it used to be a lot of money, because there was almost half of them sitting there.]] To this peasant of ours, in fact, this money never came to the real producer of Ukrainian bread. Today we're trying to get this money to every bee, not just every bee, but every bee, every pig, every calf, and every bee, I like that word especially, and so on. Because of this, I am convinced that these are very good intentions, but in the middle of the year we need to look for a completely different method of supporting the peasant and the same kind of headship, such as cattle. I understand that's a big problem. Because of this vote today, in the middle of the year, the faction of Julia Timoshenko considers something necessary. We have bees today, and they're so popular, they're big people, and there's a lot of honey now. And because of that, once again, the bees are probably going to suffer, and from this pathetic budget today, it's obviously not worth any more spending in the middle of the year. Thank you. Long live the bees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u52	No grants. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u53	People's MP Pisarenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Please hand over another bee expert to the national deputy, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u54	Please, Vladimir Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u55	Deputies! You know, we need to vote against it. Why? Because in my opinion, absolutely in principle, we do not approach the issue of the support of a farmer. Please tell me that these costs are unlikely to reach their destination. But when today the product produced by the manufacturer does not find the right price in the market, especially in the summer, see how much the price of milk is falling, which is practically inconvenient to keep cows. And in this respect, we should, for example, pay more attention to the question of price policy balance, not allow smuggling here, and then in the market, agricultural production will be valued. And in this way, it's going to be the right way to support the manufacturer. As for bees, I think there's probably an element here of this, you know, a little bit of trying to play, because that's contrary to the first position when we're looking at the budget and there's 1.2 million. The President's Administration has been appointed. And we know the principle of the President's position that he is definitely against such, you know, entertainment. And in this respect, we should probably think more of a different way of supporting the manufacturer -- it's promoting such a price policy in the market, so that production is produced, and it's a factor in supporting this production, not in this way, because it's usually not going to cost, it's going to steal away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u56	Yes, please listen to the Ministry of Finance. Please, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, we also support the proposal of a budget committee on the need to finalize the bill. In particular, we propose that the name of this budget programme be given in accordance with the Law on State support for agriculture, namely: “Budget subsidies for animal production and financial support for plants for Hector crops”. And these changes will be made at the same time as the government will be preparing for the 2006 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u58	Yeah, we'll exchange thoughts, we'll figure it out. It's a short procedure, a short procedure. Come on, maybe the bee will protect you. Baranovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these programs have been in operation not one year before this year, and only for a mistake in the editorial village will they not receive these grants. If someone says they're stealing, give one fact. For days it was 230 million, from the submission of the Ministry of Finance to the village, the money that went to the cost of technology, and the money that went to the cost of credit, and it went to the purchase of grain. It wasn't the villagers who sent the money. Today, 212 million people are already losing the peasants again, again from their pockets, if we don't. It's three months till the end of the year. Whatever Minfin's offering, the villagers won't get it, they won't get it. And so together, 442 million of those who have been allocated to the village as a whole are not going to get it this year. So I want to welcome those who are really saving, that they can steal, that it might be something wrong, because everyone knows in the village as well as in medicine, we can lose this support. Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to all you've said here, I just want to remind you of the requirements of the Rules and the Budget Code, and they demand that any changes or changes to the State Budget or amendments to the laws relating to expenditure and income should be concluded by the Cabinet of Ministers. In this case, the Ministry of Finance. We have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. So in order not to bury him, I support that really what Alexander Petrovich says needs to be corrected for the mistake that has been made. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Budgets to return to work and re-read. [[16:50:51]] For 288 Copy that. But I would also ask the subject of the legislative initiative and the budgetary committee, especially since the author of this initiative is the first deputy head of the Committee on Budgets to work so that the year does not end. We're looking at the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2179. [[concerning the monitoring of the H. Gongadze case]] Vladimir Stretovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues are national MPs! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by a group of people’s deputies in the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council, registered 2179. In view of the great resonance in the society caused by the murder of journalist Georgia Gongadze and the investigation of the relevant criminal case and the execution of Supreme Council Resolution No. 151 of 15 September this year, “For information by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the murder of Georgia Gongadze, it is necessary to apply the supervisory functions of Parliament and establish a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances, the causes of the loss of journalist and the causes of delay in the investigation of the criminal case. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s draft decree is intended to hear a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances and causes of the death of journalist Gongadze and to determine the reasons for the delay in investigating this criminal case in a three - month period. Since the investigation may reveal previously unknown facts related to the establishment of the contractors and the organizers of the murder, it is necessary to establish a time limit for the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission — one year corresponding to the maximum time limit for the authorizations of the temporary commissions of the Supreme Council provided for in article 80, paragraph 8, of the Supreme Council Rules. A composition of the Temporary Investigation Commission was formed for a representation announced on September 15, in such a warehouse. He proposes to elect the head of the Temporary Investigative Commission of the People's Deputies, Moysik Volodymira Romanović, deputy head, national deputy Slick Vasil Andriyovich, as well as to make up the Temporary Investigative Commission of the following National Deputies: Bondarenko Olen Anatoliyevna, Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich, Head Sergei Petrovich, Zabarski Vladislav Valeriovich, Zabzaluk Romana Omelyanović, Iljasov Grigorija Olexiovich, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich and Zabzaluk Mikola Ivanovich, Miroshnicka Jurija Romanović, Nadjajka Anatolija Mihajlovich. In doing so, I would like to stress that today you are given materials that represent the name of the national MP, Omelchenka Georgia Omelanovic. Yesterday, however, at a committee meeting in the course of the discussion, the secretary of the Committee, Borschevsky, denied membership in the committee of the Omelchenka people’s deputies in connection with his being part of another interim commission of inquiry that was contrary to the requirements of the Rules. At the suggestion of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" instead of Omelchenk, this is what I say for the stenography included by the candidate Mikli Ivanovich. In view of the fact that the proposed bill was put into effect on 15 September and taking into account the proposals made to the faction of the Supreme Council by all factions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the prescribed bill as a decision taking into account the proposal for a change of composition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u62	Thank you. I thank you and the committee. And I would ask others to make proposals for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry to follow the rules of the Rules clearly, which suggests that we should immediately approve the personal composition of the Commission. Because that's what we do: we pick our heads, then we say, "Add." And the second time I have to go back to that. It's right here, so to speak, here at first they had one proposal, we agreed on a consensus board, we agreed on a consensus board that, really, it was immediately to submit a personal warehouse. And I'm pointing out that, in fact, Gregory Omelchenko, because he's part of another commission, the faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko" proposes to Mikola Zamkovenko. Is there no point to this decision? None. I am voting on the adoption of a ruling by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry concerning the control of the Gongadze case. Registration number 2179. [[16:55:40]] For 413 “For” – 413, and it takes 150, decrees adopted. Yes, let us turn to the issues involved. Organizing, with Government Day. Here we have three draft decrees. I will now give the initiators an opportunity to argue, but I would like to point out that you and I have already made a decision on the implementation of the National Rehabilitation and Employment Programme on October; in November the Government Day is already approved — on the activities of government authorities, local government authorities; in December the decision is made to hold the Government's Day for the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations on the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others; in January 2007 – Government Day on the Summary of Recreation and Recovery of Children in the summer of 2006 and on the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of rest and the recovery of children in the summer of 2007. [[on the development of physical culture and sports]] So for each of the months of the second session, we already have the government's assigned days with you. So now we're going to figure out what to do with all of these decisions, but it's clear to each of you, especially those MPs who are no longer the first call: if we ask more than one question on Government Day, in fact, such a government Day doesn't give either one or the other issue of effective consideration of issues when there are enough of them. The Ukraine Government Day Decision in November -- Development of the coal sector of Ukraine and implementation of the energy-saving model. Paul Korge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The energy strategy for Ukraine's development by 2030 provides for legislative incentives to reduce energy consumption, primarily imported, and the development of market-based energy saving mechanisms in all sectors of the economy. The state of the energy markets shows the need to significantly reduce their imports. Because of the priority development of the coal industry, with the simultaneous decrease in energy efficiency, the consumption of almost 130 million tons of coal will be achieved by the year 2000; the increase will almost double. This will guarantee the nation's energy security. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has agreed to the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is introducing to the Supreme Council a draft decision by the Supreme Council on the conduct of the day of the Government of Ukraine in the Supreme Council on the issue of “The development of the coal sector of Ukraine and the introduction of an energy-saving model of economics. The path to energy independence” November 14, 2006. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the project and accept it as a decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. You heard the committee's opinion. You've also heard from me that we have a government day scheduled for November 14th. Let us, then, be determined to do so. I am voting on the draft government day of November 2006 with the agenda “Development of the coal sector of Ukraine and the introduction of an energy-saving model of the economy. The path to energy independence.” Registration number 2173. [[17:00:50]] For 373 So we're going to have two questions on Government Day and the benefits are going to be, believe me, quite a few. Draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in December, registration number 2021. [[in the agenda "For the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine and for the implementation of the State Program "Oncology"]] Bondarenko Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your opinion is proposed in the Draft Decision on “The Day of the Government of Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 December 2006 with the agenda “Oncology” for the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine and the implementation of the National Program. The problem of public health deterioration and the rise in cancer rates in recent decades is extremely important for Ukraine. One in three people and one in five women in Ukraine are at risk of cancer. In 2005, 160,000 men, women and children were diagnosed with cancer. Also, 47.9% of men and 30% of women have not lived a year since the diagnosis was made in 2004. The neglect of the disease when cancer is diagnosed in 3 and 4 stages is on average more than 50%. In 2004, 90.6 thousand men, women, and children, of whom 35,000 were registered dead from cancer. working age. At the beginning of 2005, more than 850,000 patients are accounted for. The most painful issue for the population of Ukraine remains the ability of the State to ensure the right of citizens to guarantee quality medical and social care in the event of illness. Although there is a centralised oncological system in Ukraine and the National Program “Oncology 2002-2006” was adopted in 2002, where material and technical security was a priority, each year the programme was largely delayed, often without taking into account the real needs of the population. The reasons for this are the imperfections of the legislative base, the lack of transparency in decision-making, first of all, the conduct of hardware tenders, the lack of public control and patient organisations. Residents in rural areas and small cities do not have access to up - to - date information on the prevention of cancer. They are not involved in prevention programs and surveys. In Ukraine, there are virtually no comprehensive rehabilitation programs for cancer patients. This leads to a loss of productivity, a sharp increase in disability, and a severe violation of the rights of cancer patients. The Declaration of Rights on Cancer Patients, adopted by the European Conference of Oncological Support, the Netherlands, 28-30 November 1991, recognizes the right to live full lives in conditions that guarantee dignity, special treatment, medical, psychological, social and labour rehabilitation, as well as palatative assistance and adequate care. These positions are only partially reflected in Ukrainian legislation in particular, in the State programme “Oncology”. Parliamentary hearings were held on 17 March 2004 on “Oncological Diseases in Ukraine: Problems and Ways of Overcoming”. The participants highlighted numerous shortcomings in the primary prevention of malignant neoplasms, oncodopas, and social and psychological rehabilitation of cancer patients. The Supreme Council's decision of 2 April 2004 on parliamentary hearing recommendations has instructed the Ministry of Health to inform the Supreme Council of the state of implementation of the 2002-2006 Oncology State Programme. This year, the program coincides. According to political interrogations, we have not yet heard from the ministry how this program was being implemented, which I stress is being completed in December of this year. Thus, obviously, we have good reason to listen to the Ministry of Health's Day on the implementation of the Oncology programme and, above all, in the context of the context, I stress, not in the medical context, but in the context of the protection and protection of the rights of cancer patients. I want to say again that every 56 people can get cancer today. But a wealthy person has a chance to save his life by operating abroad or buying expensive drugs. Instead, millions of those who have been called small Ukrainians are alone with their pain, despair, and fear, hoping only for the Lord God. I think listening to questions about the rights of cancer patients is an urgent, urgent issue. And I urge you to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u66	Thank you. Please sit down. True, we do not have the conclusion of a professional committee on this subject. I didn't. I've been looking into it. Now, now, excuse me, there is, is signed by Grigorovitch. It's under the signature of the committee's first deputy head. I am voting on the draft Government Day in December 2006 with the agenda “On the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine and the implementation of the national oncology programme”, registration number 2021. [[17:07:22]] For 229 Decision taken. Draft Decision on "Government Day" in January 2007, registration number 2091, Samuelk K. S. [[on the status and prospects of general secondary education in Ukraine]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. But I want to say it now. We have proposed a decree to hold Government Day on the state and outlook of general secondary education in Ukraine for January 2007. But I think I'm going to give an argument about the importance of this issue. The committee, I think, will back me up and won't deny it if we're in February, if we're not still on Government Day, we're going to consider this issue on Government Day in February. Dear colleagues. In the new school year, some 380,000 first - school students began their studies. I want to emphasize to you that this is 281,000 less than five years ago. At present, 843 schools in the village, in rural schools, have a filling capacity of only less than 20 percent of the project capacity. Same painting in the city, a little bit better. An organized ride provides 83 percent of the students who need it, but still 17 percent of the children have to go to school alone. I'm also a little concerned that we have over 800 school buses now, but just 342 were purchased at the expense of the state. In Ukraine, I - III educational facilities have been equipped with computer complexes for an average of only 65 percent, and in rural areas about 40 percent. One computer is available to 75 students, and only 40 percent of schools are connected to the Internet. One student in 200 has access to the Internet in the city, and in rural areas one student in a thousand. Today, more than 21.5 thousand educators are in housing, of whom, of course, are very many, almost 10,000 in rural areas. At the same time, in the first half of 2006, only 251 apartments were available to teachers. Of course, wage issues are also very urgent. The status of preschool education for children is indeed critical and especially for those living in rural areas. Preschool education in rural areas covers only 21 percent of the total number of preschool children, 64 percent. We remember that we lacked children's preschools, because every father and mother really wanted the child to get an Asian education and education -- in this very first line of national education. Unfortunately, today is a painting like this. In an unfinished construction phase, there are over 400 general educational institutions. And the largest number in Ternopil – more than 30, Ivano-Frankiv – 33, Hmelnicki – 30. In a state of emergency, there are 87 buildings of general education, 30 higher and vocational technical schools. For the beginning of the school year, we have a debt on salary, which we have forgotten for some time now and about vacation payments. This applies to the Suman region, the Cherkaskie region, the Odessa region, the Ivano-Franco region. Today, the debt is two million dollars. Today’s teachers ’ corps cannot help but be disturbed. It is 13 percent pensioners and 30 percent pre - retirement. And if, of course, we don't take steps today to improve general secondary education, these trends will continue. These problems need urgent solutions. First, within a 10-year period since the adoption of the basic Ukrainian Education Act, the authorities of the state executive authorities have never succeeded in insisting on the implementation of the rules of the law in full, and yes, selectively - I want to do it, I do not want to do it. Since its adoption from year to year in the text of the State Budget Act of Ukraine, meetings are sadly known to stop for such a year the operation of an article. This applies to direct action laws -- general secondary education, pre-school education, extra-school education. Secondly, the following problems need to be addressed urgently: strengthening the material and technical base. I've talked about it. Disposal of the disaster, completion of the construction of those public educational institutions. At least those who have a willingness of 70 percent or more. 100 percent coverage by preschooling 5-year-olds as a preparatory phase for learning, solving the problem of providing an organized lift to a school in rural areas, preventing unmotivated closure, liquidation and restructuring of public education institutions, and we are now seeing this very often. And especially those in rural areas. And certainly, the issue of free-of-charge hot food for primary school students is full of computer technology, Internet connection, and even textbooks because we know what is going on. It's an experiment. Last year we didn't get the fifth grade textbooks at the right time, and now we're getting complaints from the sixth grade students' parents. That's not supposed to happen. And third. In order to raise the role and authority of the teacher, it is essential to strengthen the socio-economic situation of teachers. And I am very pleased, and today I thank all the Ukrainian National Deputies who have supported our very own bill, the bill of our committee, which refers to both the national awards and the high-ranking title of "the national teacher of Ukraine", and what the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed on the annual teachers' bonuses. I think it's just the first steps, but if we can't really save the school today, we can't get a young teacher into the village school especially, it's really a disaster, and I'm impressed, I also have a lot of proposals for that budget project that was introduced today to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I'm impressed by what we've foreseen there in the budget project, the cost of supporting those young teachers who are going to work in rural areas. Well, I called these problems that probably all of you know, because we all meet and realize that these problems are urgent and need to be solved. I would like to emphasize once again, Adam Ivanovich, we do not deny that if this very important question is to be passed on, and you vote, for the February month, but that the issue in its entirety, we should also take a deep look at and work on measures that would support our school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We can go on February, but February is already the third session. Let's talk about the second session. I'm still betting on January, there's, what's more, the child-recovery issue. This is, as it were, touching. It's about the vote on the Government's Day in January on the status and prospects of general secondary education in Ukraine, registration number 2091. [[17:17:34]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[17:17:56]] For 237 We're back. I'm voting on the "Government Day" draft in January 2007, registration number 2091. [[on the status and prospects of general and secondary education in Ukraine]] [[17:18:25]] For 239. Copy that. Dear colleagues, by factions? But you see a board of factions, everybody sees. By factions, please explain. “Regions” – 8, “Julia Block Timoshenko” – 114, “Our Ukraine” – 66, socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional - 1. A draft decree on the agreement between the location of the objects and the change of purpose for the use of the land is under consideration. Registration number 2149, reports the head of the committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Bebelzenko Valeriy Fedorovich. Let's do it this way, fellow respecters: here's a list of a lot of objects, we'll listen to the information, and then, if there's a reference to one of the objects, we'll delete it and vote separately. And those who do not object will be voted on immediately. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u69	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 12 September 2006, reviewed the articles submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Kharkiv District Administration in accordance with the requirements of the articles: the 20th, 150th, 151 earth codes of Ukraine and the order of the change in the destination of land owned by citizens, or by legal persons approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 11 April 2002 No.502 materials of agreement of sites of special value. First, road services in the Lviv region for the construction of the Lviv - Brody road and road services. Second, the Open Shareholder Society “Dashukowské concrete” to expand the career of Bentonite clay. A third open stock company called Ukrnafta under operating wells in the number of 19 pieces. And the fourth is a project by the Land Authority to change the target of a plot of land of 0.17 hectares owned by a citizen of Shahbazyan under construction of a gas station within the territory of the Sukhin village council of the Goddukhov district of Kharkiv district. Full - scale materials meet the requirements of Earth’s legislation that comply with the requirements of the Ukraine’s Land Code with appropriate executive authorities and local authorities. Owners of land or land users, land administrations, conservation and sanitation bodies, city and architecture and protection of cultural heritage. According to state experts, all materials are positively appreciated and agreed upon. In view of the foregoing, the committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take the stated decision on the basis and generally as a determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u70	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yeah, five minutes. Belarus Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u71	Please give the floor to the National MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u72	Mikoli Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! The question is very delicate. And so I take it, we started doing land for the first time. I think our experts and lawyers have agreed that we share the land -- the Supreme Council -- in hectares already. But I'm concerned about a few positions that we don't have an answer to, whether there's a decision by the village council or a decision by the regional community. In particular, it is about expanding the career of Bentonite clay for an open stock company — 15 hectares of land, including 6 particularly valuable — within the Lysian region of Cherkas region for a five-year lease. I do not know such a decision by the district council of Cherkaske or the Lisian District Council. And I'm worried that we're putting valuable breeds into business without the consent of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u74	The thing is, I've been paying your attention. That the materials of consent are on the committee. They have passed all the expert evaluations, and all the consents of local councils, village councils, district councils and district councils in these materials are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u75	Please, Peter Cibenko instead of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, the document is important. For example, the attitude of our factions toward these objects varies. And so, you've talked about this, Adam Ivanovich, but I wanted to support your proposal to vote on an objective decision on the withdrawal of land, and I think that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u77	Please, Tkachenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u78	Vladimir Tkachenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please pass the word to Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u79	Please, Vladimir Oilynik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u80	Valerius Fedorovich. Vladimir Olijnik, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I am a representative of Cherkaščina and have good communication with both district - level deputies and the Lisian District Council. But it's surprising to me that you're offering us to take our word for it, that there are such materials. I haven't seen them. And I'd like to see it anyway. The question is serious. The question is not that, you know, 6 hectares there are valuable, it's the land that's absolutely valuable, because it's black. And in this respect, we should not violate the rights of the territorial community. So I think we should get to the truth about whether these decisions have been made by representatives of the territorial communities. Not just to take a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u81	So if you want to get acquainted, then all of these materials are in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the subcommittee and the committee have been looking at these materials, but I want to say that when we look at this issue, we've also turned to the local self-government authorities, but they, these organs, including architecture, ecology, sanitation, they don't see it as possible to refuse. This is just a matter that our subcommittee and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are dealing with, but each of you can go to us and look at the materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u82	There's no Gurieva? Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u83	Please pass the word to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u84	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u85	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I have a comment on the removal of land for the VAT “Ukranafta”. I literally received a call today from the Serb region of Chernigiv County, and a similar appeal was received from Talalaiivsky, Warwick, Ichnyan district of Chernigiv district, where the “Krnifts” wells stand, wrecking the truck's roads, pumping the resources out of there. Local budgets do not receive a penny from the “Scrooge ” activity. What is the point of taking land away from them in the Sumskie region and then spending government money on road rehabilitation, on maintaining social infrastructure, while Skrnafta makes profits for itself and does not receive from local residents. So we're definitely denying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u86	I want to point out that in the past, the Supreme Council did not address these issues. These issues were generally resolved at the level of district councils and by law, 151 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land made it possible to land up to 10 hectares [10 ha] of land by district councils. But the law has changed, and we must consider these matters. And if we're talking specifically about “Cropnaft” it's certain that you should give the land first because we don't have enough oil in the country. Skronaft pays all taxes to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u87	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Communication took place. Let's be clear. Yeah, let's talk about it, sign up for the faction. Yes, please, Bulba Stepan. They were recorded: Bulba, Onichuk, and Yavorowski of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. In principle, this is the question when it was considered at the level of a session of district councils, I think it could be considered and controlled in more detail. Because, indeed, this also arises when we have to vote in favour of a decision without being able to analyze the legality, the rightfulness of taking large areas. And then I think that we either need to improve this order, that is, to allow factions and individual national MPs to analyze the order of separation and evaluate these reasons. Or eventually, somehow, change the order of assessment of the bill. I find it impossible in this case to vote in favour of such a decision. Because I'm convinced that in such a case, we can, to a certain extent, compromise the rights of both the community and individual citizens, determining our exclusive right to decide whether or not to grant land to any commercial entity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u89	Thank you. Mikola Onichuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u90	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Let's try to deal with the situation. The point is that the Government of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council with appropriate reference to land removal. I'm paying attention to that. The government. And the relevant profiling committee has dealt with this issue and is actually involved with the corresponding draft decision. We're like MPs working in the hall, the apreior, as far as we can tell from the fact that the profile committee was supposed to verify the accuracy and correctness and the conformity of legislation, and that the government, in particular, should comply with all the requirements, as provided for in the Earth Code, as to the order in which the target land was used and the land was removed. Unfortunately, in the materials that we now received in the session room, we cannot conclude whether the proper procedure has been followed, or not, because these materials are not distributed. What's more, I'm personally concerned about the fact that there's no conclusion of a science-expert administration that usually has to give a legal assessment. And the question is true. This includes the removal of land, which is located, for example, in private property. Although it is indicated in the government’s very submission that all agreements with landowners, landowners, local councils, cultural and historical authorities are maintained. So it's very important that I ask in the closing word, that I stress once again, whether he's researched to comply with all the necessary legislative requirements, so that, by adopting a fairly substantial decision, it's comparable to nationalization, whether all the legal aspects of the matter have been respected, including when it comes to listing objects and observing the agreements that have been made. In general, we would have to take into account that we have actually faced this situation today, perhaps to improve the procedure for dealing with such issues, in view of the fact that the national MPs have not only received the submission of the government, but all the necessary agreement that is necessary to make the appropriate positive decision. So there's a proposal that we, called not to break down wood today, take decisions on each basis only, honourable colleagues, assigning an appropriate committee of profile, taking into account the proposals that have come today, to further verify, including in order to reach the conclusion of the Scientific Experimental Authority, and at the next plenary meeting to make the final decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u92	Honorable officials and no less distinguished representatives of the opposition! I think it's very good that we've stumbled on this issue today, and that it didn't go through, it didn't just go through transit, because in fact our vote is actually the handing out of land, where the ground, you know, isn't a misunderstanding, it's a fertile land, it's normal. Because of this, we have repeatedly considered such questions on previous occasions, and I recall Adam Ivanovich, and you may recall when we stopped some things. Remember, somewhere on Volin, 120 acres [120 ha] of peat people wanted a man to rent for 12 years. In 12 years he's going to pick this whole peat out of there, he's going to get a colossal one, and then he's going to leave this gap, let's say it's completely unsuitable to anyone, like a lunar landscape. These documents that we have, and we all seem to have come together in this, and I'm also addressing the majority representatives, and I'm convinced that we should be very, very serious about these things. Note this document. This is, let's say, this is the position where 15 hundred are allocated. Believe me, today I could name you in the Kyiv region, especially here under Kiev, when violations of the Earth Code were subject to land violations without the decision of the Supreme Council. And that's just our jurisdiction. Because of this, there are tens of thousands of acres of land in places today, and we, the deputies, here, you know, have 15 hundred of them, and you fuck each other. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich may need to work out a very clear, very precise mechanism in this regard. The MPs are already here, and I think it's a very strong argument. How should we make this decision? I think my suggestion is that every single item should have all the documentation, clear and clear, because think about who we're here for? We had a cat in a bag, and before that, there was money in the bag. Where they've been, I don't know, because I don't think it's just these things in our family society, I don't blame anyone, don't catch me on my word anymore. But once again, it's a good thing we stopped on this bill today. We need to work out a normal mechanism. Today I ask this decision so quickly not to take it literally, move it a little bit later and seriously to each particular issue of transferring the land to a given term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u93	Thank you. If there was money, only the cat was left in the bag, so the whale ate the money. Yes, are there still willing to speak? None. Then, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues, I am absolutely in solidarity with the last statement that really needs to be taken seriously and there are absolutely no objections because there are different areas. And most importantly, for a completely different purpose. Let us act in such a way that we now vote as a basis and then vote in favour of an object by making a decision. Well, there is such an offer, I have to put it to a vote. I'm putting in a draft Decision on agreeing to sites and changing target land use, registration number 2149, on a basis. [[17:38:22]] For 229 Copy that. The factions, please. Region Party – 179, Block Timoshenko – 6, Our Ukraine – 38, Socialists – 2, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, as you can see, there would be no objection if we agreed to the Lviv-Broda road, and all the rest were sent to the committee for work. Is there any objection? Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the proposal to agree to the location of the Lviv-Broda vehicles and all the rest of the work on the committee. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[17:39:37]] For 387 So we've agreed on the subject of Lviv-Broda. All other objects are requested to be reworked, dealt with with by factions, and invited to meet by factions when you consider that we will approach each object consciously. With your permission, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, and we have a lot of questions. There is a draft decree on the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of pensions for participants in the Great National War. Registration number 0957-P. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, head of the committee and author of the initiative, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The proposed bill was registered back in 2004, and was adopted as a basis in September of the same year. But in that time, and almost two years later, even more than two years later, legislation changed significantly. The project contains a series of unacceptable things that cannot be supported. And so in the way he is today, and he is accepted in the first reading, he has no chance of being accepted in the second reading. The committee therefore takes the initiative to reverse the vote on the adoption of the draft law in the first reading. At the same time, entrust the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons with the basic position of the bill in the form of amendments to the Act on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u95	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. I think we're clear. The only thing here is a little bit of a disagreement with the Rules: that if we're looking at the second reading, we can't eliminate the results of the first reading. It's the only way to get rid of it if we don't, well, make a positive decision after the second reading. But since there is a proposal here to entrust the committee with making appropriate changes no longer by decree, but in the very law that acts on social guarantees – the status of war veterans, the guarantees of their social protection – so let's not violate the Rules, I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Decree on the Ukrainian Law on the establishment of pensions. All in all. And please don't support me. I'll explain. I put it to a vote, but please don't vote for what I put up. [[17:42:42]] For-56 Coval will confirm that I did the right thing because that's exactly what he was doing. Once again, we have no rule in the Rules today that when we consider in the second reading that we have the right to reject the law. He will be rejected when we have not accepted him in the second. For the second to vote 56, the law is rejected in accordance with the Rules, and I now put to the vote the committee's proposal to entrust the committee with the matter of pensioners, veterans and invalids to put the basic provisions of the bill into the relevant law. Please vote in favour of such an assignment. It's just a committee assignment. [[17:43:37]] For 335. Thank you. A wise decision has been made. Here we go to the section entitled “Review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 17 March, is being complied with. Registration number 0803. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, reports, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u96	Thank you. On the basis of his constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, is returning the Law of Ukraine "To amend article 21 of the Ukrainian Law "On Service in Local Self-Government Authorities" to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with his proposals for its rejection, coming out of the following. The Act provides that, from 1 January 2007, officials who have served in elected positions in local self-government bodies shall be entitled to the calculation of their pension in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, irrespective of the time of their retirement. First of all, adopting this standard will create unequal conditions for the pension of other self-government officials. It will also lead to a violation of the principle of the only approach regarding the retirement of civil servants, journalists and public media of other persons who are assigned a pension in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Public Service Act. So please support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u97	Thank you. Understand? Okay. Please, this is from Kuzmenko Sergei's committee. I don't see Sergei. But the committee's proposal is also to accept the President's proposals and reject the law. I therefore put to the vote the President's motion and the Committee's rejection of the Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, registration number 0803. [[17:46:15]] For 391 The law has been rejected, the House has supported the President's proposals. Ukraine’s Law “On Amendments to Some Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Complaints of Errors in Election Lists with Presidential Proposals of 27.03.2006 Registration No. 0804. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Prepare Bogashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's Act “On Amendments to Some Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Complaints of Voters’ Lists”, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 March 2006, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in view of the possibility of having a negative impact on the practical application of its provisions. The lack of amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice provides for the possibility of complaints by citizens admitted to the list of voters of irregularities before the day of the vote. In this case, an application for clarification of the list of voters may be submitted to the administrative court no later than an hour before the end of the voting period, and such a statement shall be considered without delay. However, these changes provide preconditions for their use for the repeated voting of some persons, contrary to articles 71, 76 and 141 of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. It is doubtful that such changes will guarantee the free will of the electorate. It should also be noted that the procedure proposed by law for placing a seal in the document presented by the electorate, taking into account the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, does not constitute an absolute obstacle to the repeated voting of persons. In addition, the legal mechanism for voting for additional voter lists may destabilize the work of electoral committees, resulting in a complication and, under certain circumstances, impeding the exercise by citizens of constitutional electoral law. Taking into account the above-mentioned law that has been signed by the President of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject, or repeal, this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u99	Yes, thank you. Do you understand the position? Got it. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Bogesheva, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this issue and agrees with the President's proposals to reject this bill. The decree was passed by the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council in view of the fact that the voters ’ lists contained many inaccuracies. Given that the electoral process has been completed and electoral legislation needs a comprehensive, systematic improvement, which the Supreme Council of our vocation will be working on, members of the committee feel that the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on complaints of irregularities in the voter lists has lost its relevance. The main scientific and expert administration agrees that the law has lost its relevance. In addition, when deciding to vote, members of the committee were guided by the fact that the Committee had before it the Law on the State Register of Elections, which provided for the creation of a single national voter register, which would be used in the compilation of electoral lists in future, in elections and referendums of any kind and level. Therefore, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council agreed with the President's proposals and to repeal the Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the complaint of invalidity in the voters' lists]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u101	Thank you, Natalia Vladislavna. Let's support the President and the conclusion of the committee, because that shows that at least for the next 33 years there will be no election. And there's really a bill on voter registration, and that's where we'll take it all into account. I'm proposing a rejection of the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 0804. [[on the complaint of invalidity in the voters' lists]] Please vote. [[17:51:31]] For 391 We've got it. Again, 391. We're the only ones and the only ones. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since April 07, 0841. Deputy Justice Minister Emilianova Inna Ivanovna Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u102	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine” was not signed by the President and the reasons for this became the following. A number of amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Violations are included in the Act. An additional form of punishment, such as a special confiscation, is added to the Criminal Code. And according to this article, the 59th prize is that a special confiscation consists of forcible free removal of all the items that were found, manufactured, adapted or used to commit a crime that were acquired by a criminal means that were the subject of a crime. This provides that this special confiscation is applied both in cases where it is envisaged to sanction a particular part of the Criminal Code and in cases where the sanction does not provide for such punishment. That is to say, it goes to court. The court may apply a special confiscation, even without the definition of such a sanction, to a particular part of the Criminal Code. I would like to point out that these provisions do not comply with article 59 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which states that confiscation can only be applied in cases specifically provided for in a specific part of the Code. They are also complemented by the amendment and addition to article 263 of the Criminal Code, which provides responsibility for the illicit circulation of firearms and for the illicit circulation of cold weapons. In doing so, Part 3 of this new article 263 provides that for repetitive actions or for actions related to the illicit circulation of firearms and cold weapons under prior conspiracies, there is one type of responsibility between 3 and 7 years of age. And it doesn't go to a degree of social danger, whether these actions are done by what I was saying, by explosive devices with firearms, or whether they're done with cold weapons. Under such circumstances, the position of part three of the new article 263 provides for the same type of punishment and for different levels of social danger. In addition, part 4 of this article provides for the release from criminal liability of persons if they voluntarily informed the law enforcement authorities and voluntarily gave up weapons that were illegally held in their possession. It does not determine who it is, what role it played in committing the crime, whether it is a manual, whether it is an executioner, or an organizer of the crime. When it comes to the organizer of a crime, the Criminal Code in its articles 30 and 31 stipulates that the organizer of an organized group, or a criminal organization, is liable in any case to criminal responsibility for all crimes committed by a group or a criminal organization. Only the only condition is that it should be covered by his purpose. There are also a number of comments to the Code on Administrative Violations. These include articles 190 and 195 with a mark 4. It is also a matter of not taking into account when changing the sanctions of these articles, not taking into account the degree of social danger of one or the other. In particular, for illegal cold - weapons activities, sanctions are envisaged for up to seven ten untaxed minimum incomes of citizens. While the same actions in the Criminal Code provide for the possibility of liability up to 50 non-taxable minimums. And the degree of social danger of actions that are administrative offences, which are crimes, of course, vary. In addition, the law proposes to amend article 195 of the Code on Administrative Violations and to supplement it with the positions for which a person is called to account if the action does not contain a criminal element. This supplement is absolutely unnecessary because there is also a Code on Offences, and there are two articles in the Criminal Code: 9 and 11. And they're just dividing when criminal responsibility for the same actions and when they're administrative. Thus, in particular, article 11 of the Criminal Code establishes that it is not a crime of action or omission if, although formally, it contains the signs of the crime provided for in the Code, but because of its minority, it does not constitute a social danger. In this regard, the president, taking into account all these vital points, proposes that this law be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u103	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat. But. Yes, from the Committee of Volodymyr Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The Supreme Council's Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement has considered proposals submitted by the President of Ukraine for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 0841. These proposals, as stated by the Deputy Minister, relate to the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March of this year of the Ukrainian law, which has been amended accordingly, were proposed to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, and the Code of Administrative Violations. According to the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed and subject to rejection, since if it becomes effective, it will create inconsistencies and gaps in legislation, worsen the right to regulate the issue of criminal liability, which in turn could lead to violations of human rights and freedoms. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus disagreed with the President of Ukraine's summary proposal to reject the law and considers that only part of the proposals should be taken into account. The committee took the same position. In view of these circumstances, we have taken into account some of the President's proposals, particularly those mentioned in the report, prepared a new edition of the bill and invites the Supreme Council to adopt this law in a new edition. As for specific suggestions, they are offered in the table that is given to you, and you see them in the table of amendments. Please support the committee's decision. The main lesson of this bill is to develop the concept of “seizure” as an additional mechanism for speeding up crime and “special confiscation” as a confiscation of criminal objects. If it's a counterfeit product, smuggled, knifed crime. Today, there is no answer to the legislation, so we want to correct this gap and introduce an article 59 that speaks of confiscation with a single “special confiscation” badge that requires legal regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u105	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, but unfortunately, there is no norm in the Rules. [[You stay here.]] In the new edition, we can no longer accept. That's why we are now voting on the President's proposal for a rejection, if it gets support, the question is, if not, we're exchanging thoughts. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 0841. [[18:00]] For 267 Decision taken. The law is rejected, the President's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u107	The Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects with the President's proposals of March 21st. Registration number 0819. Dear colleagues, I've been in session for 15 minutes. First Deputy Minister of Economy Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, please prepare for Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u108	Honourable National Deputies, adopted on February 21st this year by the Supreme Council of the Law on the Management of Objects of State Property, the President does not sign for such reasons. First, according to the law, in particular certain rules of articles five, seven, 11 of the state-owned entities are empowered to manage assets that are not state-owned property. This does not include the provision of article 116, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the government is empowered to administer only public property. These rules violate the rights of other owners to own, use, and dispose of their property do not ensure that all owners of their rights are given a level playing field. Thus, under the rule of law, the State’s power to manage the public sector’s economy, and other subjects with a share of the state’s ownership, can only be exercised in respect of such a share. In this regard, it is proposed that changes be made to individual government powers, the Property Fund, regarding the management of public property, including corporate rights. In particular, in part two of the second article, five in paragraph three of the first article seven, and in article 11, it is proposed to delete part 20. Next. The individual provisions of the State’s law give the owner much more rights than the State’s owners regarding the administration of property objects, thus violating the constitutional standards of equality of all property subjects before the law. So what we're proposing is the rules set out in article seven on the property of farm organizations, including foreign investment with a share of corporate rights with foreign and part six, 11th, 23rd, article 11, which deals with the characteristics of governance and the limitations on the regulation of corporate rights of the state, to exclude from the law. [[25 percent of the country]] And finally, a number of provisions of the law stipulate that held corporate rights that are granted to the management of economic structures, to these authorized persons, cannot be alienated without the permission of the government. This is not in line with privatization legislation, such as the law on privatization of state property, as well as article 146 of the Code of Masters, which we did not provide for the alienation of State corporate rights outside the framework of privatization of such rights, including with the permission of the government. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that the relevant rules of articles 9, 10 and 11 of the law be supplemented by a provision whereby the alienation of the State's corporate rights is carried out in accordance with privatization legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u109	Thank you. No questions? It's all clear, yeah. Have a seat, please. Please, Alexander Bondar of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u110	Alexander Bondar, U.P.R. "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". The Economic Policy Committee has considered the President's proposals for a law on government ownership and proposes to support all the President's proposals. And in view of what was the decision made? Because of the law. The President’s remarks are indeed contrary to the Constitutions of Ukraine, the Master Code and the Civil Code of Ukraine. In addition, we considered that the President had already vetoed this law for the second time, with various amendments being made and the adoption of all the President's proposals would make it impossible for us to not sign this law and we would finally have a law on government property management. The President's main science-expert management of the 12 amendments supported 6 but 6 which they don't support are not of a principled nature and so it would be better to support all the president's amendments and automatically lead to the signing of the law. I ask all the MPs to support the president's amendments and finally have a law on government property management.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here we also have an opportunity to support the President in the sense that the committee of profile has absolutely all the proposals put forward by the President, supported and so we have here enough 226 votes to sign the law. I am voting on the draft Law on State Property Management with the President's proposals, registration number 0819. Please vote. [[18:05:34]] For 400. The law is passed. And the President is already obliged to sign it. Because, first of all, we've taken into account all of the proposals; and second of all, we've got more than two thirds. The factions? Well, for Faction Lace, please show me. Region Party – 184, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 100, “Our Ukraine” – 62, Socialists – 32, Communists – 19, “Afterfractional” – 3. Well, one minute to the head of the fund, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you very much for supporting the bill. And what I'm saying is that this is a law that's very beneficial for Ukraine, so that, in the end, we can figure out the area of government property management, so that we have parity and competitive principles as private property, state property. And I hope you will also support the Law on the Rights of Municipal Property. Thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u113	Thank you. Work. Dear colleagues, today I propose to conduct a kind of, well, experiment. Because today we have a proposal for a law that has already been drawn up, this is the first time, a law that has been worked out in accordance with the new Rules with the President's proposals. If you don't mind, in the few minutes we've got to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, with the President's proposals, worked out. We were assigned to September 14th, registration number 1144. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We, with representatives of various ministries and departments and with the Supreme Council Committee, have finalized this bill and it has been formulated in the following way, to grant aid to the disabled in connection with the extra-priced free-capital renovation of apartments. Allowing such a right to provide for the execution of an orderly office of the Ministers. And what I'm trying to tell you is that today, according to the Department of Labour and Social Policy's subordinates, we have 280, 268,000 people with disabilities. The bill regulates the issue of 84,000 war invalids living in apartments. Please support this bill. Although it's a bill from the Ukrainian people's deputies, I'm still going to take this opportunity and call on you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u115	Thank you. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u116	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Cibenko, a Communist faction, the head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Indeed, in carrying out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have worked out this document very quickly with the comments made by you at the hands of the ministries and authorities and, with the help of the author of the Bill, Catherine Seminalik. Moreover, all the comments made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy were taken into account. Moreover, honourable colleagues, the committee proposes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy accept this Law, taking into account its entry into force on January 1, 2008, be put into effect, adopted not only on the first reading but also on the second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u117	Yes. Thank you. For reasons of vote, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u118	Microphone, thank you. Respectful colleagues may have had a misunderstanding. I would like to remind you that, last time, the Minister of Social Policy and Labour has reported that the Law in the previous edition cannot be adopted because there is no adequate funding in the budget. And we all agreed, and we wanted to find a formulation that would allow within the existing funds, and we were listening to the budget today, and we saw what possibilities there are for solving this problem. Note that it is now proposed to add to the old edition – “in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers”. So only order will determine the Cabinet of Ministers, but it's not at all who can do it, in what extent and how. That's why I think this is a return to the old editorial, which was dedicated to the President. I want to say again: in principle, no matter if this government finds the funds, let them find them, and let them do these capital repairs, it'll help people. But I want to go back to today's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-21-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! Yuri Bogdanovich, here's the most important except that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine, but most importantly, what we're going to do is we're going to postpone it: it was here on January 1, 2007, and we're going to say, since January 1, 2008. That's the most important thing. That's the most important thing. Most significant. I am voting on the adoption of the Act, which has been amended by the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, registration number 1144. Please be supportive. [[18:11:45]] For 394 The law is passed. We're sending for the President's signature. Dear colleagues, we haven't worked out a bit, but it's about time. So thank you for your fruitful work. At this evening’s meeting, I declare it closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
