ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u1	I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[16:02:41]] Registered in 246 National Deputies. The evening session shall be declared open. At the request of Alexander Turchin, the first deputy of the Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, I announce that on August 3th, the faction's decision of July 20, 2006, that the faction's decision of July 20, 2006 from the MP's bloc of Yulia Timoshenko in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Council of Ukraine excludes the people's deputies: Borzikh Alexander Ivanovich, Zubec Mikhailo Vasilovich, Zubik Vladimir Volodymyrovich and Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovich. I'm asking the regulatory committee to determine in accordance with the content of the Law on the Status of Deputies, the Electoral Act, the Constitution of Ukraine where it is now decided to form. Whether it's a group of non-fractionals or something. I'd like you to answer that question. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, I address you as head of the committee. A few days ago, we adopted the Supreme Council's decree that issues that would be ready for inclusion in the agenda would be addressed without the Conciliation Council's agreement, and, to the extent that they were ready and on the subject of plenary meetings, we would include them and consider them. In the morning, I announced that the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine would take place at the evening session, but because he was to be preceded by an agreement on a reformed coalition, and on the basis of a procedure that was agreed yesterday by all the political forces that would enter or engage in it, this procedure had not yet been completed. I'll, we'll look at the questions that I'm talking about now, and then I'll announce a break so that you can complete the preparation of those documents that are defined in this order and in the morning, at 10 o'clock, we'll consider this issue definitively. And according to the Prime Minister's candidacy, I hope that, after a short period of time and throughout the Cabinet of Ministers, it will be tomorrow, and, by the way, it is the President's request that he come to Parliament tomorrow, as it were, to perform his honorary duty and to introduce the Prime Minister's candidature and to be present during the swearing of the judges of the Constitutional Court, as it were. I am simply informing you about this and therefore ask you to include in today's consideration, for this evening's session, the draft law amending article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act on the oath-making procedure of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And on the draft decree amending the Supreme Council Rules, number 1242. Both documents are considered by the profile committee and there is good reason for us to consider them. So I ask you to support my proposal to vote on the question, on the vote on the inclusion of these issues in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:06:53]] For 230 Questions are included in the order of the day. Well, I want to say that the faction “Our Ukraine” is now holding a meeting, it is gathering. Factions, please, factions. I think it's quite clear that the Party of Regions is 185, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko is 4, our Ukraine is 8, the Soccer is 33. The Communists did not vote. I don't understand. Well, it's an up-to-date question. A draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act is now under consideration. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u2	You high-ranking head! Distinguished People's Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for a draft Ukrainian law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act. In accordance with this article, a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes office from the day he takes office. Part three of the article cited is that the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is held with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine not later than a month after the appointment of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. As you well know, it was these positions of law that led to a number of warnings, both to experts and politicians, and actually to a discussion whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine could lead to the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who had already been appointed president and elected by the Assembly of Judges of Ukraine. It has been known that, in recent times, this situation has been the reason that the appointed judges of the Constitutional Court have not been sworn in. Since the current edition of article 17 of the Law contains a provision, including the term during which the Constitutional Court judge is to be sworn after his appointment, and he is defined exactly as 30 days, it is factually meant that the judges of the Constitutional Court, who are now appointed by the President and by the assembly of judges, are long gone beyond this 30-day term, this has made it impossible to swear to the already appointed judges. In this regard, honourable colleagues are invited by this law to make a part of the third article 17 in such a way as to establish that the judge of the Constitutional Court makes an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is held at the hands of the President, as well as the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court or, I call your attention, the persons who exercise their authority. That is, by making such changes to the law, we thereby remove the discussion restrictions that exist in the law today and grant the Supreme Council the right to bring the judges of the Constitutional Court to an oath provided that such an oath would be served by the President, exercising the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and exercising the power of head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This is the first time. And second. The bill also proposes to delete the last part of the sentence, part three of this article, which includes the setting of a 30 - day term. It is proposed that this term be removed, thus not setting any time limits for Parliament to swear to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thus, if today's changes to the Constitutional Court Act are approved and signed by the President and the established public order, that means that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can immediately, in the course of the circumstances, since the circumstances that I spoke about have arisen, bring the judges of the Constitutional Court to the oath. As far as I know, the political will of the leaders of the parliamentary factions on this issue is also provided that if the law is passed today, we can solve another important node of the political problem that exists today in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u3	Is there a question to Nikola Vasilovich? There are no questions to Nikola Vasilovich. Then sit down, please. Eugene Petrovich, you will speak, please. From the profile committee of the profile committee of Evgene Petrovich Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 3 August this year the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number 1098-1, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mikola Onichuk. As you have already heard, the purpose of this bill is to change the procedure for swearing by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. A procedure is in place that makes it impossible to create an artificial situation where, under formal circumstances, the courts of the Constitutional Court could not have been sworn in, so that they could begin to carry out their duties. You have the text of this article in its original form, and you have suggestions for a new edition of this article. I repeat that the main thing in this new edition is that the formal monthly deadline for swearing judges and the possibility is given, in the absence of appropriate officials for important reasons, to make an oath in the presence of those officers. In the view of the committee, the adoption of this bill will contribute to strengthening the guarantees of independence of the body of constitutional jurisdiction of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number 1098-1, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u5	Is there a question for Eugene Petrovich? A different name, don't you think? It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u6	Eugene Petrovich! Koleszenko, faction of Party regions. I wanted to ask Onichuka Nikolai Vasilevich, but if I was not noticed, I ask you, perhaps you can answer this question: this is the wording of the law that we are now proposing, she therefore stresses that we were right when we explained that we could not have sworn in the Constitutional Court judges without this amendment until now. However, if we adopt this law today, it does not have retroactive force. And what, we are now taking away the question that the judges that the President by his decree and the Supreme Court have passed, are we taking the matter down now? Don't you need them? Retransmission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u7	We considered this situation at a meeting of the Committee and received legal opinions. I'm going to say that, as is often the case with lawyers, they don't match. However, the overwhelming majority felt that the exceedance of the monthly period and the absence of an oath by the first persons was a violation of the law and prevented judges from taking an oath. Thus, I am not based on a decision, but I am inclined to the opinion of the majority, indeed, we have advocated a perfectly fair position when we speak of there being no legal basis for the swearing of judges at this time. If we make these changes to the law with you, which is what we propose to do, we remove these obstacles, and thus the judges appointed by the President of Ukraine and the judges appointed by the assembly of judges may be sworn in after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u8	No more questions? Ah, there's another question. Please. Say your last name, because I don't remember everyone yet. Yuri Baldirev, you can't see him, he's closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u9	Dear Evgeni Petrovich, as I know, the current Constitution contains a constitutional rule that the law does not have retroactive force. There is no reference to the decree, but the law, and in this case the law, has no retroactive effect. We can therefore amend the Constitutional Court Act, but this change will only take effect as soon as it enters into force and cannot apply in any way to the events that have taken place 8 months ago. Therefore, this does not allow for conflict. I think the adoption of this law on change is pointless.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u10	I tried to explain in the first answer, I repeat. If we adopt this law, we remove such a restrictive rule as a monthly period and remove such a restriction as obligation, presence at the oath of certain officials. If these rules do not exist, there are no obstacles to swearing by those judges, which have already been approved by the relevant bodies, by the authorities provided for in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u11	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Further to the question of Yuri Alexiyovich, I mean, it's about the act itself. These people have not been sworn in, so after the adoption of this law, its signing by the President, they will act in the manner defined by the Constitutional Court Act and with the changes that we will adopt today. First. Secondly, note this detail, the MPs are sworn in with the term no later than what number? No, it's not. So that's just the right thing to do. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced. And let's say, three weeks from now, the President can bring in his representatives tomorrow, we'll take them to the oath, we'll assign the same people. A meeting of judges will determine the same in three weeks, and we will be forced to accept it again. This is at a time when we have claims from the Council of Europe from various political structures in Parliament about the non-functioning of the Constitutional Court, which is a body of higher constitutional jurisdiction. We have to form it, and that's why there's no warning about such a procedure. If anyone wants to make a statement, you can express yourself. Please, Miroshnichenko. I didn't announce the recording, I don't think a lot of people are going to be speaking. Out of the way, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u12	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I wanted to speak to my colleague, Yuri Alexandrovich Baldwinev, in support of Alexander Alexandrovich’s opinion. Indeed, the law has no reverse power, but no legal fact has taken place. It's about changing the procedure. I mean, if we had already voted to take the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court, now that we hadn't changed without making any changes to the law, we would now be saying that we broke the law accordingly, even after adopting the amendment, we would be talking about that the law has no reverse force. And since we are changing only the procedure and then the legal fact will take place, we will accordingly make an entirely appropriate change of the law itself, and then we will proceed with the approval and oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u13	Thank you. Are there any other suggestions? Then I'll put it to a vote. The law is small, and we may immediately vote as a rule of law. Mikola Vasilovich, please. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuku, reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u14	My fellow Members, I believe that the discussion that has now taken place around this bill shows that we are improving and bringing into line with the Constitution the legal regime for swearing to the judges of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, Alexander Alexanderovich, given that there are currently meetings of the faction "Our Ukraine" and they cannot take part in the vote, I propose. The vote on this issue will take place immediately, as soon as the national factions of the factions appear in the hall. We intend to support this bill, and from the fact that there were only 230 votes when it was included in the agenda, it may be appropriate to follow my advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u15	I think that all deputies are convinced of the need to adopt this Law, we believe that “Our Ukraine” would vote for it as well as “The Yulia Tymoshenko Block”. I'm putting this project to a vote, like the Law. Please vote. [[16:22:29]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. The issue of amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered as part of the establishment of a coalition in Parliament. This is about the unification procedure or the pre-formation of the coalition when other factions want to join it than those who have formed the coalition. For this reason, please let us speak to Vassil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending articles 64, 66 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed for your consideration. It is proposed that such changes be made to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 64 adds a new part of the following content: Item 4. “In the event of the termination of the coalition or the conclusion of a new coalition agreement text before the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the respective posts and candidatures proposed by the coalition, the proposal for the corresponding candidature is not considered to have been called off unless another decision has been taken by the coalition in the new composition. The second paragraph, in article 65, is proposed, paragraph (a), to add the first sentence to such a phrase “if the non-committal MP has expressed a desire to become a party to it under conditions other than those laid down in the coalition agreement, with the agreement of the coalition, all of its participants are making a new text of the coalition agreement. B, part 4 in such an editorial, para. 4, “No later than four days after joining the MP’s faction into a coalition, the exit or inclusion of the MP’s faction from the coalition or the formation of a coalition in the new composition of the new text of the coalition agreement, this is reported to the chairman of the plenary meeting. In the same period, the report is published in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine, ” respectively, along with the personal composition of the MP faction, which has either been excluded from the coalition, or from the personal, enlarged, coalition composition and the new text of the coalition agreement.” The third paragraph, article 66, is to be supplemented by a new part of the content “para. 3. Changes in the composition of the coalition, including the withdrawal of one or more MP factions, if there is no coalition, do not become less than is defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, no reason to stop the coalition.” Paragraph 2 of this decree, “This decree has taken effect since its adoption. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Frost.” Please accept the above changes to the Rules as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u17	Please, who has a question for the reporter? I'm making it clear that there's no doubt about the MPs, I mean. Yesterday, when we signed a memorandum on the purposes of reformation, or an expanded, unifying coalition of national unity, we agreed that the same treaty that was signed by the Party of the Regions and our Ukraine was signed in our Ukraine by other factions, that is, the document that we have already signed. Thus, this procedure is simplified, it applies in this case to the "Our Ukraine" procedure, I wish that was what you meant. This is yesterday's deal. So that there are no questions then, temptations, if the coalition is really new or has stopped its activity since that fact happened, it's accepted as a fact. Not what was then there, let's say, different interpretations of the procedure, about ten days, about other procedures, if there's a coalition decision that it's making changes as defined in these articles, it's seen as a real fact as the basis for procedural action. If you have no objection to this, I'm going to base this project. Who. Me! Showcases? Well, please sign up, I won't deny it. Sign up for the performance. Borschevsky please, behind him, Sadowy. Let's make every faction come out, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u18	Matthew! Please give the floor to my colleague on the Matthews faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u19	Please. Then we're 15 minutes away from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u20	Dear National Deputies! The current Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as you know, were adopted quite recently on March 16, that is, at the end of the work of the previous Assembly. So what do we do with you now, or do we want to do with it? Under every situation in the Supreme Council and any other political power, it insists on making appropriate changes to the current Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is not an exception now, it is all done to satisfy the political ambitions of one political power, but rather the faithful faction of “Our Ukraine”. I won't even comment on the draft law introduced in the morning at number 1244. It's actually an absurd law, in my opinion. Only now are we given a new draft law to replace the earlier bill. Yes, indeed, his editorials differ substantially, i.e., significantly changed his position. But why are we doing this? And once again, I emphasize, they're following a well-known political force scenario. There is article 65 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, the article on changes in the composition of the coalition. I would like to quote, even read, and draw your attention to the position of Part 1 of this article. “The parliamentary faction, which is not a party to the coalition, may, at its will and with the agreement of the coalition, enter into its composition by becoming a party to the coalition agreement.” But we are forced to vote with you in favour of making changes to the current Rules of the Supreme Council. They want to make and change a completely important question about the formation of coalitions, and more faithfully, changes in the coalition of parliamentary factions. I think we should think about that today, especially the faction colleagues of the Party of the Regions, when they vote in favour of the bill. I don't think the Communist faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u21	Garden, please. Mikola Ilichi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u22	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We've entered a new relationship system when a coalition is being formed, when the coalition format is expanding and, of course, the practice is not yet done in this regard. Practice gives you reason to make adjustments to any other law to make adjustments, including regulation. So the socialists, I think, will support this law, because it gives exactly the direction to what we can have and will have some compromises, when we have to make specific, urgent decisions. In fact, there are 65 articles and there are corresponding terms, including 10 days, for changing the form of one coalition or another. If we do not change such terms, it will certainly give rise to various speculations. So I call on the people's deputies to vote in favour of this law and to allow for the expansion of the coalition format. These are democratic principles and must be supported. In this case, Alexander Aleksandrovitch is right about the need to uphold such a law. And in conclusion, I once again urge the national MPs to support this law. The socialists will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u23	Miroshenko. Nina Ivanovna, please be quiet. Tell the neighbors to keep it quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to address our fellow communists first, especially since they are our colleagues not only as members of the Supreme Council, but also as our partners in the Anti-Crist Coalition. Dear friends! You know how difficult our country is. We see the difficulties of negotiations, consultation and creation, in fact, of a new consensus with the participation of the President of Ukraine. And actually, if you look at the conditions that we're in right now, it's the emergence of a new political reality, because that rule that we've been proposing, it didn't foresee what we're guilty of right now. In fact, there really is a coalition, but they don't join us, they join us. And accordingly, dear colleagues, we must consider the realities of life. The function of the Supreme Council is to legally regulate certain social, social relations. If there's a new relationship format, we have to sort them out. And it's around that fact that there's the content of all of these proposals. It regulates essentially the order of joining our coalition. And, respectively. No, there is a “joining” in the text. Not 'unification', but 'joining'. So if we're joining, we're making the possibility, I'm not saying that we're obligated, we're making it possible to adjust our coalition agreement, and so that we don't dissolve the coalition and create it again, we're saying that the new procedures will allow all of us, as they say, not to stop the process that is now on the positive side of the universal signature, but to continue it and maintain that trend in the consolidation of Ukrainian society. So I'm talking to our Communist colleagues to support, because you understand that, in principle, it also improves the climate in the Supreme Council, and it allows for a wider range of options that may exist in the future to also involve people in the work of our coalition. Or perhaps other coalitions that will arise. Because the proposals made do not deny what is already in the law. The one already in law, which creates additional opportunities for forming a coalition and harmonious activities of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u25	Who of “our Ukraine ” will speak? Mikola Vasilovich? Please. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich says, "Give him your word."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, it is natural that when the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were being drawn up, he was preparing for a projection of the new relations that had arisen in the state and had already arisen today in connection with the establishment of the parliamentary-presidential form of government. And then, the emergence of new ones for the Ukrainian legal system is like coalition, coalition formation, coalition reorganization, and so on. And it's only natural that we're now seeing some flaws in regulatory regulation of these relationships, considering that, as always, life is a little bit wider in terms of what we imagine. In this context, the faction “Our Ukraine” considers it appropriate to propose the provisions of the relevant bill to detail the procedure for regulating matters related to the increase in the composition of the personal coalition, association, unification or withdrawal from the composition of the coalition, etc. Under all circumstances, it can be said that the proposed edition should be supported by the Supreme Council as a useful, legal act. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention, Alexandre Alexandrovich, because there is an editorial amendment to the last one, such as paragraph 3 of the regulation, where article 66 is meant to be supplemented by a new part of that content. Subparagraph 3: “changes in the composition of the coalition, including in relation to the withdrawal of one or more MP factions”, if the word “personal composition” is omitted in the last sentence of article 66 of the Rules of Part 3. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'll read again, considering you've been distracted. Changes in the coalition, if, including in connection with the exit of one or more MP factions, if the missed word “personal composition of the coalition” is still behind the text, “it does not become smaller” and beyond the text. Because it is not clear which fractional or personal composition is involved. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m1.u27	Thank you, the faction has spoken to the MPs. I want to sum up this discussion by paying attention to these details. The factions are speaking correctly, expressing doubts about the faction that we seem to be adapting to the desire of one faction or another faction. These are natural doubts, but the point is that it's not about ambition, it's about benefit for some political force, although they can appreciate the current step in this way. This is a matter of disregarding circumstances that were not previously provided for in the Rules itself, for there may be different reasons. And then the difference between the drafts is that it was registered this morning and changed it now, not in the editing of these articles, but in that there were still changes to the voting procedure, the secret voting. Since the factions did not discuss this issue before themselves, they said that it was not necessary to review the voting procedure today, but to focus only on the 64-66 articles of the Rules concerning the process of forming a coalition. And finally, one more. The new covenant may ever be necessary to adopt a new agreement or to edit that agreement, which was the basis of a coalition of existing ones at the time of its creation, if that is the case, then you can make a correction, today I do not see that need. That's why I don't see a warning here. But just in case, you could write it down in advance. I'd also like to draw your attention to the fact that in each paragraph of this decree it is a faction, not a MP, that is perfectly consistent with the Constitution. I'm sorry that there's no "Timoshenko Street" faction here right now. That an increase in the coalition by individual deputies could not be foreseen. So not to create such a situation when a faction does not go into coalition, but half of its deputies have gone into coalition and then other factions don't matter in this coalition because they can come out of it, but it will exist. And that can be the cause of abuse of various purposes, etc. Therefore, the Rules of the Coalition evidently require that this correction be made. This does not mean that individual deputies can become members of the coalition. But this is a question, whether it's the subject of our next decisions, and so far I'd like to ask, given the amendment to the proposal of Miklao Vasilovich Onichuk, not just the composition of the coalition, but the quantity composition of the coalition. And given that the draft has deleted the word “from the political positions of the coalition” and this is not included in the text, I am voting on the basis of this project. Here comes the vote. [[16:43:04]] For 245 Decision taken. In general, I'm asking questions for a vote. [[16:43:34]] For 259. Decision taken. If only the content had been said. Let's do one, two, three, and then it's another thing. All right, everybody, pay attention. I'm sorry, I may not have complied with the Rules if that was the case with the objections. Next time it won't, I'll mean it. And now I'm going to recess until 10:00 in the morning and ask the factions to conduct those procedural moments that relate to coalition issues. Please.
