ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio and television audiences! Today, Friday, 22 C.E. I ask you to prepare for the registration of the deputies. Sit down, put your cards in, focus. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:25]] Registered -407 The MPs have been able to insert 407 cards. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of Refat Abdurahmanovich Chubarov. Let us welcome him, wish him success in carrying out the high mission he represents in Parliament and not only. According to article 25 of the Rules, today is the time to make inquiries and discuss answers to requests from national deputies. I declare that, in accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, “and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the People’s Deputies Kozachenko Alexiyyovich and Sklar Vladimir Borisovich have entered the faction of "Our Ukraine". A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mr. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the improper treatment of parliamentary appeals involving numerous violations and abuses in passenger transport and passenger transport competitions on intercity routes. I hope that the Secretariat, by registering this request, has made it clear that he has already addressed these addresses. And so when there was no response, or when there was an unsatisfying reaction, he asks the appropriate question. Eugene Kirilchuk also asks the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unwarranted transfer of funds from the General Fund of the State Budget under the programme “The Own House – “the granting of State aid to individual rural builders” from August, September, October to November – December in the range of 7.5 milliongr. Similarly, Eugene Kirilczuk and Arnold RADIO to the Prime Minister on the unwarranted intentions of the Cabinet of Ministers to remove from the State Budget project for the following year the “own house” programme, after granting State aid to individual farmers. I think these questions are right, but so is Eugene. I'm talking to Eugene Kirilchuk. You can join the working group led by Adam Ivanovich and Mikola Janovich, and you may be able to maintain this vital position. Alexander LEDIDI to the Attorney General on the use of unlawful charges against members of the Zacarpathian Region Party in the theft of computer technology. Mr. ALIENICA and Mr. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Attorney-General on the cessation of human rights violations by officials of the Attorney-General’s Office. StanisławA LONG before the Attorney General, the minister of internal affairs for the reappealing of a citizen named Silantiev in connection with an improper investigation into the tragic loss of his son’s life, which lasts for more than two years. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the groundless destruction of a park in the center of the city of Kremenchuk. [[FOOD, DANIEL, SUPPORT, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General on the verification of the rightfulness of obtaining an agreement to build on the street of Bogdan Hmelnicky, 72-74 in Kiev. Alexander LEDIDI to the Attorney-General for the protection of the rights of property owners – residents of the villages of Longe Pole, Podgorb, Barwinok, Baranitsa Zakarpatska District. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the return of the Oster High School of the name of the Czech poet M. Céspel. [[COMAR, CORSACOV, and others. Total 8 deputies]] Mikoli Komara to the Attorney General on the repayment of the debt from the earnings of the state-owned enterprises Tehbudsklo and Autosklo im. K.T. Bondareva” by Kostaninjka of the Donetsk Region. And ALLY ALEXANDROWS to the President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat for the payment of the debt to the production and trading company Harkoveletromontage for the equipment delivered to Zaporezki AES. The answers to the MPs' requests have not yet been and there is no point in discussing them, so we're going to look at the questions that are scheduled for the day. You have this order. And the first question is, according to the Conciliation Council, the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of allegations of bribery by Ukrainian national deputies. Report at the head of the commission, Borschev Viktor Valentinovich. The Rules are proposed: 10 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for the answers to questions, 10 minutes for the people's deputies to speak, 15 minutes for the report, and three minutes for the commission's chairman. Thus, in about 35 to 38 minutes, we need to consider the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The purpose of the investigation of the Interim Investigation Commission is to verify, prove or disprove allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, to provide an appropriate political and legal assessment. As of September 20, 2006, two cases are being handled by the Interim Investigation Commission. First: accusations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published by the Ukrainian national deputy, Lášk. Second: accusations of bribery of national MPs, published by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko. Since the creation of the commission, three meetings have been held. With regard to the first case of the charges of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Lášk, the following was made: 12 appeals were sent on 20 September 2006 to the State Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister for PEKU, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine Lášk. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Láška, was invited to the TSK meeting on September 14, 2006, where he gave his testimony and explanations regarding the commission’s investigation. The Commissioner-General of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine was invited to attend the TSK meeting on September 20, 2006, where information was provided regarding the request of the national deputy Ljaška and the reasons for the position of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the matter, directly at the meeting of the commission in the presence of the deputy of Ukraine Lášk. The Commission’s interim investigator in the investigation revealed the following facts. On September 20, 2006, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lášk, gave no supporting evidence, documents, magnetic, digital and other media, recording devices, or other to support allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 26, 2006. Although in his explanations, Láško, who met at the TSC on September 14, 2006, undertook to submit evidence of his accusations within two days. The position of the Attorney General on this matter has been formulated. On 3 August 2006, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine received an appeal from the National Deputy of Ukraine Láška, who required that all media reports, including those distributed and via the Internet, be examined, and that all persons who had made allegations and reports, or that specific facts were referred to as unlawful acts by some representatives of the Party of the Ukraine and the Socialist Party of Ukraine and that criminal cases were violated by a bribe of $300 million by members of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and personally its leader, Moroz, from representatives of the Ukrainian Party of the Regions, with the aim of changing the political outcome of the elections and the political course of the State. But no additions, including phone records, or other material, are included. And in general, there's no reference to the fact that there's been, or any phone records, or any other material that confirms the fact that Frost was bribed and allegedly transferred to the U.S. Attorney General's Office on July 24th. In his reference to the U.S. Civil War, attention is focused solely on the fact that reports or assumptions of receiving the Socialist Party of Ukraine and personally the Moroz from $100 million to $300 million have appeared alone in the media, although, in fact, all of these publications contain mandatory references to the relevant statements of the Lalach himself at his press conference in the Supreme Council on July 24th and his subsequent speeches on this subject. For the purpose of a comprehensive, objective examination of the appeal of Lacha and the details of the arguments presented therein, the latter was invited to the Attorney General’s Office to provide an explanation of the matter in the legal order. However, Lazko refused to appear before the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine. Under these circumstances, since the address of the Ukrainian national deputy did not contain any information that would require verification under the current legislation in accordance with article 97 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office does not apologize for its decision and decision. The second, formulated position of the Ukrainian Security Service, that measures to obtain information that temporarily restrict human rights and freedoms are carried out solely with the permission of the relevant court in operational and counter-intelligence cases aimed at detecting and putting an end to serious and particularly serious crimes. With regard to unsanctioned hearings by senior officials of the State, the Ukrainian Security Service reported that such information was not available during the specified period. As a result of the well-known monitoring of the illegal conduct of these measures in the Ukrainian Security Service. Third, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Frost, expressed his position as follows: “I officially answer that this is a simple slander, which, by the way, does not even have abstract logic.” The fourth, formulated position of Deputy Prime Minister on PEK Klav's issues, that there was no discussion between him and Deputy Rudzikovski to testify to the bribery of the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Frost by MPs from the “Regions”. Fifth, at the meeting of the Temporary Investigation Commission on September 20, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lazko, handed over the TSK to an audiocassette with clearly expressed physical damage, unheard of. The interim commission of inquiry decided by voting that the items provided by the Ukrainian national deputy Lášk could not be considered evidence of the bribery of Ukrainian national deputies. The members of the interim commission viewed the action of Láška as an attempt to provoke in the presence of the authorised representative of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, returned the items to Láška for further processing and transfer them to the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine. The interim commission of inquiry also twice fixed the attempt by the Ukrainian national deputy Láška to give TSK members false information during the TSK meeting. Thus, taking into account the facts to the official positions of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the testimony and explanations of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láška, Head of the Supreme Council of Moroz, Deputy Prime Minister of PEK Kluva, the interim commission of inquiry, the following decision has been taken. First. The charges of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published by the Ukrainian national deputy Lášk, are considered groundless and unproven. The other one. The interim commission of inquiry sees a sign of political provocation in the actions of Ukraine’s national deputy. With regard to the second case of charges against the bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko has been referred to Timoshenko since September 14 to provide clarifications and relevant evidence regarding information published on her behalf in the online publications “Leigabiznesinform” and “Ukrainian Truth”, as this information contains charges against the bribery of national deputies, which is directly the subject of an investigation into a temporary commission for which no reply has been received on 20 September. According to the allegations of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, published by Ukraine’s national deputy, Timoshenko, an investigation is under way that will inform the Supreme Council later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u3	The question is to the reporter? Please sign up. Ten minutes to ask. It's a bummer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u4	It's Roman's. I give the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u6	In fact, the report of this so - called commission of inquiry is a colossal propaganda that is taking place in Parliament today. In fact, today, every MP knows without any evidence, which certainly has to gather the power structures, not the MPs, that there is just so much corruption in the room. As for the deputies, tens and tens of them fit, offer, and some take. And I think that even the composition of this commission, where only a few people from the opposition, and everyone else from the so-called Anti-Crist Coalition, testify to the dictatorship of the majority even in finding out the facts of corruption in Parliament. I want to say again that this is a campaign. It's the same thing that the temporary commission of inquiry for the murder of Gongadze would have led Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u7	Dear Julia Vladimirovna, the Commission has been working for several months and we are very responsible for all your facts, evidence that you will bring to the Commission, listen and discuss. With regard to the composition of the commission, it was approved by the Supreme Council under the Rules in proportion to the proportion of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u8	You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u9	Valentina Viktorovich, well, Victor Valentinovich, you're an experienced communist, an experienced man. You remember that in Soviet times, each of these things, the publication, has certainly triggered an appropriate response from all the organs: The Central Committee, the Commies, the Paradises, that sort of thing. And there have been appropriate investigations. Young MP Lazko believed the publications in the press and, eager, wanted to fight this shameful phenomenon that we are fighting today in the state. I would still have urged all those present in the Supreme Council to prevent these formulations of Soviet times: the totalitarian regime, or what we heard at our colleague Pożynov's address yesterday. We have to be more tolerant. And your entire report is based on the criticism of the Man’s Heaviness.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u10	I report on the actions carried out by the Commission. And Lazko attended the commission twice, promised to give evidence of some kind of film. But at the last meeting, he tried to punch the commission, and I don't have a word, a tape that you can't listen to. She's torn, she's stuck, and so on. How can these facts be seen as disrespect for the commission and so on? On the other hand, we have tried very hard to deal objectively with these issues: both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Security were trying to find facts, to find circumstances that could, so to speak, shed light on Lyashko's comments. But unfortunately, they're not anywhere. On the Internet, the Supreme Council Information Office, on our request, was essentially jumping around a gigabyte of information in which they all refer to Lazko's statements. The originals, the others we didn't find.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u11	Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u12	Vitaly Corge. It's the Timoshenko Street. Please give the word to my colleague by the faction of Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm not investigating, nor is the prosecutor asking you a question, at the level of an ordinary Ukrainian invader. First. I know for a fact that Easy didn't put microphones under the couch, let's say Ice cream was there or someone else was involved in the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u14	I don't have a couch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u15	Don't interrupt me, Alexandre Alexandrovich. What I'm saying is that Easy didn't come up with anything, he took it from the Internet. It's very important that people hear this. Your report I don't think you should have made any commission, you could have made that report the second day after the commission was set up. I have a question for you, and I'm asking you, if he were to hand these films over to you, would you have them, or would it be what they could have done with Melnick's tapes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u16	The Commission is very responsible for its actions. But the moment is, if it were a general political statement, perhaps the Supreme Council did not create a commission. But the people's MP Lasko has made specific, personal accusations against his colleagues, the people's deputies. That was the subject of the commission's investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u17	Shamanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u18	Shamanov Valerius. Please pass the word to Sergio Platkov, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u19	I have a question. It does not seem to you that the interim commission of inquiry should be made permanently operational, for there will always be no charges, but there will always be bribery of the national deputies. And what kind of procedural decision did the Attorney General's Office make, whether a criminal case has been committed, or whether a criminal case has been dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u20	I'll start with the second question. The materials given to you contain an answer from the Attorney-General's Office, which does not provide legal grounds for bringing a criminal case. Nope. Although the Public Prosecutor's Office has carefully examined the applications made in the case of the People's Deputy, Lásko. With regard to the continuation of the work of the commission, this will be decided by the people's deputies in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u21	Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u23	It seems to me that society is no longer surprised that, over the years, we have not found corrupters in the highest levels of government, not the U.S. Attorney General's Office, not the M.I.D.'s, not the investigating commissions in the Supreme Council. The whole country knows that in Parliament ideologies, ideological beliefs, people's choices are sold for money, concrete, clear and completely tangible. And your commission, which consists of the majority, the anti-crisis coalition, no one will find justice. And society doesn't expect justice from you. And the task of Easy as a national deputy is not to give you any evidence, it's the power structures that have to do it. Sadly, though, they are like all the authorities in Ukraine today. And the task of Easy is to raise and say what is in the media is like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u24	Dear Julia Vladimirovn, I am prepared if the commission continues to work with you, to cooperate with you, because I, like any man in Ukraine, am outraged at the scale of corruption. Let's work together. But you haven't visited the commission in three months. Let's work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u25	Bondarenko. Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u26	Lukyanczuk, faction of the "Julia Timoshenko" I'd like to give the floor to Terrence Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u27	I would like to support the question of Hennadia Josephovich the Widow. This completely reminded the Soviet times when writers in the Society were arrested, tortured for what they said was not what they were writing, not what they were saying. It's exactly the same style. It's a very simple situation. Lazko appealed to the prosecutor’s office, where specific publications were spoken in the press, accusing him of bribing national MPs. Instead, they are cut to pieces today as they were cut to pieces in Soviet times. I was an MP when they said Major Melnick's films were all lies. When all of this is not true. And here they were speaking from the commission of inquiry, from the prosecutor's office, and today the same situation is happening again. Questions. How long will that be?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. The issue is not in the evidence, because both our commission and the Attorney General's Office have carefully examined all the publications on the Internet, on television. All of them went with a message to Laška. And the question is, what is, so to speak, political statements, and there are political lies, lies, slanders, as they say in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u29	Have a seat, please. Anyone who would like to make a statement please sign in. Yavorowski. Yavorowski wrote it down, I announced it. Bulba, Widow, Ivanov. Four men will speak. Please. You're taking the word "Lyashko," please. It's easy to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I don't intend to convince most of this room because it's absolutely impossible because they've made this decision a long time ago and it's true that one of the deputies didn't have to work for a few months. That's why my speech is primarily addressed to Ukrainian citizens. I want to report that the report, the report, the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission, is not objective and I will demonstrate it on specific facts. In particular, the report suggests that my actions, published materials, are unfounded and unproven. On what basis is this conclusion based? As stated in the previous report, the Special Forces responded to Klav's responses to the General Prosecutor's Office. In particular, the Attorney General's Office, in his letter to the head of the commission, pointed out that it seemed to have been analyzed by publications and reports that, in the opinion of Lalashka, allegedly confirmed the bribery of the Socialist Party's deputy faction. It has been established that these publications refer exactly to the statement of July 24, when it was first announced what we are currently discussing. Apparently, the public prosecutor's office doesn't work well with the Internet, so I want to show you. For example, a publication on the Internet site “Powers No”, which has been reprinting telephone printing since 19 July 2006. Here's a fragment dated July 10, 2006 - "Ruben, hello. [[A man with a voice like the Clovis.]] Comrade, Ruben?» - Yeah. Hello, Andrei Petrovich. I congratulate you on your boss's birthday. [[The One Who Remembers The Day Before, Was Birthday]] How's it going? - It's okay. It's okay. - What about the situation? - I've got it under control. The cold has been paid, so the situation is under control. Ruben asks, “Listen, who is cold? ” He was saying, "Well, somebody's freezing." [[A man with a voice like Kluva]] - Do you have a lot of money? - That's enough for 300 floors. - Fuck you. [[I'm sorry.]] - 300 lemons. Listen, it's an advance, not just for the coalition. In December, well, we'll be impeached. "Cold" - President, Parousi - Prime Minister. [[in the sense that]] And so on. This is, for example, what the Attorney General doesn't see. Next. There is no response to Rudzkowski’s request from the Follower’s Commission. She's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the I'll tell you what's not there. Because when the next commission asked Rudzikowski if he had a conversation with Kdijev, Rudzkowski answered the transport minister’s form, which, since the question did not fall within the authority of his responsibilities, he was not obliged to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u31	Have a seat, please. Bubbles. Stepan Bulba, your word. Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please. Don't touch the Light just because.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u32	Why would I want to be touched by a figure that's actually tiny and what's there to talk about? Simply, simply, knowing his criminal past, the faction uses it, you know, he's six years for which he got his time. This is a conservative and court case, and there are also publications that tell about all these things, and we know also how he got baptized from these six years. That's why I'm not gonna touch him. He's a little piece of work. The question is different. The question is, for what it's all about, that's all that's said today. You know, Julia Volodymyrna likes to talk about bribery, but she never gives the facts. Obviously, this is simply a pattern of the formation of its time in the past vocations of the “Fatherland” faction and others, that is. When it was said how much money was spent there and so on, but then, you know, these things weren't investigated. So we can't put and talk like she says that it was all that it was, that it's all that it is. So it's funny to talk about all this stuff. But in other words, I'm talking about the legal side of this case. Today, the previous speaker was reading an alleged recording. He was asked to be confirmed because he could be painted and written as you would like. A fact is needed. We need proof. There's no evidence. And that's what the commission led to. Next. It's a very interesting sequence. You know, it's about bribery right after the election. It was mentioned earlier about a server, and it actually talks about some things that aren't confirmed anywhere else. It's all talk, it's all talk, it's all talk. Then comes evidence on the Internet. Well, the Internet, you know, today, from a legal point of view, it's the same thing as writing something on the fence, we're reading it, and what? We have to take this as evidence. No, it's, you know, it's a long way to go. From. I think it's all being done to fight. From. And it's clear what the purpose is. When there's no alternative, when there's no such thing as a smart one, there's no such thing as a fact, there's just, like, gossip about the whole Supreme Council, about every deputy, about the speaker, and so on. Well, I have to say, not very smart and not for women, let's say, hands and not for a woman's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u33	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. Kenzier? Kenzier will talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u34	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm not going to touch this particular problem here. The issue that we are discussing is of great concern to me in general, which includes today's specific issue. You know, I've seen a lot of things at my age. When, in my own experience, when I was attacked by a group of Chegebists in the Lviv region on January 22, 89, a reporter’s bag broke out to eliminate the video I was filming, I was able to hold back two Khegebists ’ racketeers. People saw them, and then I came to the police, and I handed them over to the police, and I took their badge to the service. The police opened up a criminal case, made a play of the situation, searched for criminals for a long time, and finally two weeks later, I was handed over a video camera that was allegedly found on the trash. Why did I tell you that? We're looking for criminals today, and they can't find them sitting in a session hall sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers. And we all know, the whole nation knows that this man, in particular, to be specific again, the head of the West Regional Customs, who is now missing, former ésdek, vans, and back and forth chasing smuggling. When we know that there was such a famous man, Comrade Calculate, he organized an election to the Supreme Council. Everyone knows about counterfeiting — there are no criminals. The Sevrerodonet Sabbath, where Ukraine enjoyed it, has video recordings! What else could there be?Oh, my God! The lady from the "Regions" -- oh, forget her last name -- a very nice woman, I also have this entry, and I wrote it down out of curiosity, and I called for the formation of armed forces and the acquisition of Ukraine by regions. And our famous, virtuous law enforcement agencies never get off their feet, their faces work in sweat, and they can't find the bandits! And they walk in the middle of us, they walk in the middle of the day and they rob, they kill, they racket, they steal, they bribe, they do everything! Here's the problem, dear friends! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u35	John’s word is from the Party of the Regions. Are you going to talk? Please introduce yourself and speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I want to remind you that on July 26, 2006, we heard in this room -- literally, the transcript that was given in your materials -- that Mr. Laishka has the materials, I've got the materials. Today he stood there and justified that they were printing from the Internet, "authority.net" and so on. Where these materials are, we haven't seen them. You're saying, Your Honor, that the commission was unfair and her report disgraceful, please, in this regard I say it is your right to consider it so. I have to immediately inform national deputy Oleg Láška that, today, at 11:00 in the Cave National Court of Kiev on Khreshtick Street, there will be 42 hearings for a suit against him, for spreading unreliable information, false and disgraceful information about Andrija Petrovich Klav. Mr. Lazko sees this commission as unfair, this Supreme Council, perhaps he will join the court case, for he has not appeared in court twice. Let him prove himself right. He couldn't provide actual data to the investigating commission, he couldn't provide actual data to us. He doesn't want to go to court. Now let's talk about justice, which I've heard three times before. If justice is to ignore the facts, disregard the evidence, and listen to Lasha’s talk, let there never be such justice in our country. And now I've heard a little bit about the dictatorship of most people. If the dictatorship of most people is to use actual data, the talk and the attempt to pry some kind of Flake is created by the commission of inquiry and it can't provide any actual data, let's say it's a dictatorship. Because our faction has always stood for the rule of the Law. You don't have to sniff it, and you don't have to say that there's something that can justify statements that can't be confirmed. I'm asking you to consider what I said. And I demand that Mr. Lazko, when the trial is concluded, apologize to the people he gave false information about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u37	Have a seat, please. He insists on replicating Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u38	Give me a line, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u39	But I have given you, behold, speak, what is it that you are?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u40	So, given the allegations made here regarding Laška's prosecutions, I now publicly claim that we are the next few days, I think, on Monday, we're going to file a lawsuit against false data distributed by Prime Minister Janukovich in Luhansk, referring to the fact that Timoshenko's government has raised tariffs on municipal services, including gas. I'm talking about that false information that's being distributed will be proved in court. And a party of regions that have such a leader who won't say a single word of truth will also be responsible in the courts with their leader. As for Laška, I believe that every MP who read in the media or who is informed of what is going on in the Supreme Council is obliged to act like Laško. And it's not his fault that all the power structures and the Temporary Commissions are sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u41	Please, Baby's got a minute to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, dear colleagues, for all those who have supported me and understands why I did so. I hope that God will give understanding to those who today are attacking me as they are. With such repulsion. And I'd like to answer one of my colleagues who told me about some disgraceful criminal past. My criminal past is known to the whole country. And those who criticize me today have previously defended me. And I think that my criminal past is as disgraceful as the past of the heroes of Ukraine's Leukka Lukyanenka, Stephen Cloud, who are just as I am. . Who, like me, suffered for their views. And the head of the Supreme Council knows very well why I was persecuted, why criminal cases against me in Kuchma’s time. And the European Court of Justice asked this question, and also gave its answer in July, confessing to a violation by Ukraine of article 10 of the European Convention on Mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Let's figure it out. Don't, please. There will be no end to this. He did not offend you; he referred to you as a positive example. Yes. But I don't think you want to get in the same line with these examples. Let us sum up this discussion. The composition of the commission was based on the Rules, that is, on a proportional basis. So to accuse the commission of being sold, bribed and so on is like spitting in a well where you drink water, because they're your people, your representatives. Not a single fact, a particular fact that would confirm what was stated here and what was quoted from the rostrum particularly speaking, has ever been. It's different. The task of the deputy is not to spread gossip but to raise an important problem. And we need to create commissions when this problem rises. So I'd like us not to confuse the initiative, but the notes from Melnick with the fake. The notes by Melnick are confirmed by experts and are supported by many of the facts of our social life, the killings of many people, and so on by the perpetrators of this tragedy or crime. And apparently, the representative of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko at the Conciliation Council was against the commission's report on the Melnicke case against creation, against the consideration of the issue in the sessional room. And now the parallels are happening. Finally. Rick, I'm responding to Jaroslav Mikhailovich's replica, he's speaking quite correctly, indignant about one, two, third fact. But for over a year, all the power was in our hands and with you, including the investigation. Why are those who have done so not before the courts? And now we're giving someone a hard time. I don't think that's right. And finally. For some of the initiators, I'd like to address them as such. We can't measure everyone's actions on our own. [[Applause]] I have no argument and no need to justify myself. If that's enough for the commission, for the deputies, for the radio audience, I swear by my life that neither I nor the faction have any addictions that were formulated by the respective authors of the fake. And I'd like to take that into account. Now it's about determination. We have already created many commissions, and we should not waste our efforts on talking, spreading gossip, and other things. That's why I have an offer like this. To vote on the basis of the decision of this commission and then to make a clarification, namely: after the first paragraph, not to write a “preliminary report” and “the report of the Provisional Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the charges of bribery of national deputies”, then a temporary commission of inquiry to take note. And add the words “consider the issue exhausted”. Throw out the third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs and leave the paragraph accordingly. The decision will take effect on the day of adoption, and by protocol, let's say, I was asked to speak to the Voice of Ukraine to publish this decree. In general, all these gossips are not interesting to the public, and whoever wants to publish them will. They can be easily obtained from you, for they should all be put on their hands. I'm putting the draft ruling on the ground. Please. [[10:47:28]] For 247 I also asked in general to vote on the amendments that I said, considering that the commission had stopped its work. Please, there will be facts, we will create a new commission, but if there are facts, not gossip. I'll bet on the vote with the amendments I've announced, please. [[10:47:59]] For 244 Thank you, 244 – “for”. Decision taken. By factions, please publish. 182 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPI – 33, Communist – 20, non-fractional – 4. Thank you. A review of the President's proposals is under consideration, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, with proposals from the President of Ukraine dated 17.03, will be reported by the Deputy Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Samchuk Grigory Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u44	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine returned his proposals to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices, Price Creations, adopted on February 23rd this year for its review at the Supreme Council. The provisions introduced by law in the channelling part of the funds allocated from the budget to compensate for differences in prices, tariffs did not take into account the specificities of the provision of housing services and their constituents. In particular, part of the companies that provide services, such as the export of solid household wastes or, for example, housing services, while receiving compensation from local budgets, will not be able to comply with the law on how to channel these funds into network losses. In view of the noted president of Ukraine, he suggested that the third article of the first law should be deleted. Taking into account the fact that the new legislation passed today for consideration by the national deputies takes full account of the President of Ukraine's proposal, it is proposed to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u45	Is there a question? None. Please sit down with the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Andry Vilenovich Senchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 14 September this year, considered a proposal by the President to amend article 9 of the Law on Prices and Prices, adopted by the Supreme Council on 23 February 2006. [[Registration number 0818]] The President's proposal deals with changes in article 9, under which the executive and local authorities, which by their decision set prices and tariffs for housing and utility services, are obliged to use, deduct from the operator the difference between the approved price or tariff and the cost of production and the provision of services at the expense of the budget. Further contradictions with the President's point of view, which is that this act of law obliges the economic operator to use his means of appointment, i.e. he is subject to certain conditions. In this regard, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept the proposal of the President and adopt the Act amending article 9 of the Law on Prices and Prices in the Drafting, taking into account the President's proposals, namely, the deletion of article 1, paragraph 3, of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u47	No questions to the reporter? None. Take your seats. Obviously, there is no need to discuss this issue, since it is cohesively supported by both the professional committee and the government. If so, then I'm putting the bill with the president's amendment to the vote. This is the law for the protocol, for the transcript, I say, this is the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Price Creation” of 17.03, registration number 0818. This project is about voting. Please support. There's a vote coming. [[10:53:01]] For 366 Decision taken. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance for the Rights and Guarantees of Individual categories of pensioners is under consideration, with proposals from the President. Samchuk Grigory Mikhailovich reports. After him and so will Shadowenko Andrey Vilenovich. Please. This is registration number 1126. Please. About making changes to the Ukrainian Law on General and, obviously, I was wrong. I'm sorry, I misproclaimed. It's my fault. One second. Sorry, sorry, sorry. This is the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, with the President's proposals. This is Project 0823. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The president of Ukraine and the government of the designated Ukrainian Law are not supported by the following. For one thing, for legal reasons, proposed by law to introduce a moratorium on the raising of prices and tariffs on residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services limit the constitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to which, in accordance with article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the power and security of price policy is conferred. Nor is the law in line with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, which stipulates that changes in the level of government fixed and regulated prices and tariffs to individual types of products, goods and services are made in order and in terms determined by those authorities that approve or regulate prices. Moreover, the bill does not comply with a number of articles of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act and the Ukrainian Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act. According to article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the setting of tariffs for the payment of household, utility, transportation and other services provided by enterprises, municipal property organizations of the respective territorial community are part of the self - control of the executive bodies of rural, rural, city councils. The President of Ukraine also points out that, in adopting the law under consideration, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 2 March 1999 was taken out of consideration by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the number 2PP, which the Constitutional Court of Ukraine declared to be inconsistent with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on temporary prohibition of the raising of prices and tariffs on housing and public transport services provided to citizens of Ukraine. Noting that by adopting such a law, the Supreme Council went beyond the powers established by the Constitution of Ukraine and intervened in the authority of local self - government, thus violating articles 6 and 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It's different. The law cannot be supported for economic reasons. In accordance with article 191, part 6, of the master code of Ukraine and article 31, part 4, of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, in the event of the approval of prices and tariffs for residential and utility services lower than the size of economically sound costs for their production, the authority which approved them is obliged to compensate these entities for the difference between the approved tariff level and the economically sound costs of the enterprises. The approval of prices, tariffs on residential services below the size of economically justified costs on their production without compensation shall not be allowed and may be brought before a court in accordance with article 31, section 6, of the Housing and Utilities Act. This will lead first of all to the considerable cost of local budgets. The adoption of this law will also result in further deterioration of the financial situation of housing and utility enterprises, the technical state of their core funds, including the water supply and water supply networks, and as a result of the decline in the quality of residential services. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to your attention that as of January 1, 2006, the number of emergency water supply networks has already reached 30 percent. In the Heat Farm 14. The annual increase in emergency networks in Ukraine ranges from 2 to 3 percent. There will also be an increase in the debt paid to employees of the listed enterprises. Now the debt from the wages of residential and utility enterprises has now reached 72 million and is increasing. Last year, we were downgraded. And there's also an increase in the damage that as of August 1, 2006, amounted to 1.2 billion when last year's figure was almost that last year. Enterprises will not be able to fully account for their consumption of fuel and energy at the same time. Taking into account what the President of Ukraine has said, the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, is proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u49	Question to the reporter. Please, Yuri Fedorovich, tell me. Now, let's write it down for five minutes. And in the meantime, say, the President's arguments were presented in the amount of obvious budget irregularities, I understand? That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u50	Yes. The budget deficit will amount to about 400 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u51	400 million dollars. Please, speak. Lukyanchuk question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u52	Thank you, Lukyanczuk, the faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko". If you'll excuse me, I'll give it to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u53	Dear reporter! Of course, we understand the arguments you're making here on behalf of the President, but let's mention the millions of our voters, the price of services for them today, the tariffs are rising every day and in geometric progress. If we don't stop this vachanal, if we don't impose moratoriums on people to have any confidence in tomorrow, how do we look into our eyes? When you come to them and they ask, “When will these prices stop, how will you live when there are no wages, no pensions, and prices are rising every day? ” But we need to keep in mind the people who sent us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, housing prices, energy services don't go up daily, and, more than that, I'll tell you, I'm responsible for my words, the honourable people's deputies. Prices, housing tariffs in a number of regions haven't been reviewed for about three or five years. And today, apart from Ivano-Franco and a number of other inhabited tariff stations, housing prices do not meet the costs. On average in Ukraine, they cover 70 to 80 percent, and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, for example, water, they account for 30 percent. Cuba, a cubic meter of water in Eupatoria, costs 17 copies. [[A ton of water!]] What's more, prices and tariffs for residential services, you know, are approved by the local authorities. It's their prerogative. And what's more, the virgins who approved the lower costs, I reported the previous law, have to be compensated for the budgets of those bodies that approve. But honourable national MPs, believe me, as an expert, today's damage in the field, I've already said 1.2 billion. That's for August first. We're talking about sector reform. We're talking about investing in this sector, we're talking about involving private capital in this sector. Who's going to bring the money to the property? So the government supports the President's proposal or position that such a law cannot be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u55	Etukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Deputy Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u57	Please, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u58	The distinguished rapporteur, well, first of all, would like to say this, first of all, to the population, that the increased tariffs are not the fault of the current Government, it is understandable. They began with the problems of 2005 when they were destroyed. Russia's cheap gas, and all of this has now come to what we have so far. It is clear that the current Government has nothing to do with this. But I want to understand the position of the Government. For example, article 48 of the Constitution guarantees the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including adequate food, clothing and housing. Only 380 will have to be paid for heating at current rates. 60 per cent of the population is below the subsistence minimum, i.e. less than 500. How can people live, and how can we implement article 48 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u59	We've calculated, I don't know, 340 bracelets per heat, we've calculated projections based on objective price increases in the market. On average, if tariffs were to rise, even at 70 per cent of the coverage would be 70 to 75 per cent. It's about the average family and the average apartment. In apartments that have one-, two- and three-room apartments. With regard to unprotected species. We have repeatedly said that the State is effectively operating a subsidy institution that protects little more than that. Protected levels of population and dynamics since about 2000 show that every year is a year! – by curbing or increasing prices and tariffs for residential services from the State Budget for Housing and Utilities through the subsidy mechanism, it will average up to 300 million bracelets. These are the investments in the industry. From 4 out of the millions of families that had subsidies in 2000, we've already gone down to about 800, to 1 million. So once again, I want to reiterate that the unprotected levels of the population today are protected by the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u60	Samofalov. I'm asking you not to discuss it from here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Vasily Kiselev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, you have worked in the Government of Yehanurov, now you work in the Government of Yanukovič. Why don't you and Kinach tell us why you didn't say when you went out to this rostrum: because there was a government policy that broke ties with the Russian Federation, the price of gas went up from $50 per thousand meters per thousand cubic meter to $120 per thousand cubic meters? And I have a question: how are the people who are barely surviving today going to treat you now in the government of Yanukovich when you're going to offer to raise the price of housing services? Our faction will not personally support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u63	Well, first of all, I'm not a minister. I'm a deputy minister. In the government of Yanukovich Viktor Fedorovich, when he was then, I was the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities. And when I was the head of the committee, and I was the deputy at Yehanur's, and when I was the State Committee, we just created this ideology and the law that you passed -- thank you all -- about the reform program. And without reforming this area, we will never be able to bring order here. With regard to the raising of tariffs, today’s government, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, does not say that tariffs should be lifted. And I didn't say in my report that tariffs should be raised. The tariffs set up local authorities, local self - government agencies. And today the legal basis is that where the tariff is approved below the cost, there should be compensation for the housing-communal holdings of this difference in tariffs. All I'm saying is that housing companies have to be paid for their services, like the rest of them, 100% of them have to pay for the damage. The mechanisms are either at the rate of a percentage increase in tariffs or, if tariffs are below, I repeat, at the expense of local budgets. But we want to get quality services with you, and, believe me, if we want these services to be available to everyone, and we don't want to ruin the housing system at all, these mechanisms have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u64	Grigory Mikhailovich, it can be understood that this only applies to the government to the extent that it will cost an additional one billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u65	Yes. Subsidies will rise on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u66	Thank you, sit down, please. What would Andrew Vilenovich Senchenko say? Please, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the Economic Policy Committee, at its meeting on 14 September, considered the President's proposal under the Ukrainian Law to raise prices and tariffs for housing and utility services and household gas, electricity, public transport services other than taxis, registration number 0823 adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 March 2006. The argument made by the Committee was entirely consistent with the argument put forward by the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, so there is no point in repeating it. And I wish to say that the decision that has been taken does not coincide with my personal view, but the Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept the President's proposals and reject the Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for housing and gas, electricity, public transport. I would like to say that the doubts raised at the Committee's meeting were primarily related to the soundness of housing and utility tariffs and the dramatic action that took place here in the establishment of an investigative commission to examine the validity of tariffs, saying that it was not so peaceful. I can give examples of the territory in which I live, particularly the town of Kerch. 60% of all the water that is passed on to Kerch is poured out on the ground. All of this is set out in the tariff, and citizens are obliged to pay for such unwarranted economic, rather justified results of non-economic, tariff-based services. We're with you in our cities, we're seeing the mass of uninsulated thermal routes, the flow of water from sewers through the streets -- that's all that's on tariff and what's forcing our citizens to pay, including the poor. Well, the quality of services has been discussed many times. In terms of housing subsidies as a protection mechanism, I believe that, over the years, this system has been brought to perfection as a mechanism to humiliate our fellow citizens. So, in my opinion, there must be a moratorium, but it should not be forever, but before the housing grant system is brought into line with the basic rights of citizens and before we see with you how much tariffs are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u68	Thank you. There are obviously no questions. That's it. Do you have any questions? Please sign up for three minutes. No, no, you'll answer. Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u69	Sergei Kuzmenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine I don't think we have the right to agree with the committee's conclusions, because without looking at the economic justifications that the deputy minister is now, and on behalf of the committee, the head of the subcommittee has come forward, regardless of that, we understand very well that, in fact, there's a lack of ownership behind these elevated tariffs, there's bribery, there's a hidden deal that's based on favourable conditions for firms, but there are extremely unfavourable conditions for this same residential area. So I will personally vote in favour of breaking the veto. And I think my faction colleagues are backing the position just to beat the veto. I insist on such a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u70	Please, Sivuliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u71	Andriy Vilenović, please tell us if you have considered on the committee the issues that have already suffered the loss of the population in connection with the fact that the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of the Moratorium, adopted by the previous Supreme Council, was committed and prices raised several times during this period, particularly for gas. The price of electricity, hot water, heating, and cold water began to rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u72	There was no detailed analysis of the figures at the meeting of the Committee, the President's reasoning was examined. I must say that a number of other bills of MPs, our colleagues, have been studied in the current call for a moratorium to be announced by the end of the year. And this kind of bill was also supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u73	Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u74	Yuri Oderechenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I do not think that we should support the decision of the Commission, because in all those years of reform of the housing and utility sector that has taken place in Ukraine, it has moved in the only direction — the decommissioning of the jacks. To date, we have established the structure of private jacks, but the structure of the legal entity of the apartment house has not evolved. And the draft budget that we considered yesterday is totally out of the question for real reform in this sector. In terms of tariffs, no one knows the true cost of operating housing tariffs, Gorvodokanala, Teloenergo. And the Ministry is unfortunately making no effort to establish a system of cost analysis and control. Until it does, I think I should be a moratorium on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u75	Please answer or comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u76	I don't know. In my opinion, we need to agree. Because it has been said many times that, firstly, tariff justification, secondly, accounting and the establishment of the entire accounting system for both budgetary institutions and citizens, given that underprivileged citizens are not in a position to take account of this accounting system. So there must be support from the State. And the third is a logical, non-conflict and non-degradable housing subsidy system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u77	Wait for the offer. The last question of Zybenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u78	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot make any other decision than to overcome the President's veto. Because even today, if we overtake the veto, it's already a little late. He was timely when the Supreme Council accepted him. We have a lot of talk in society about the matching of our prices, our tariffs in Europe, but for some reason it's not about the matching of pensions, wages with European standards and so on and so forth. With today's skyrocketing prices and tariffs on residential services, people will simply, and especially pensioners, veterans and disabled people, will be unable to pay it. And we'll blame people again. I ask my fellow Members once again, let's all go together, and we will join in overcoming the President's veto on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u79	Well, you can't help but agree. I'm joining my voice, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u80	Okay. Have a seat, please. The word is given by the representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Please. Turn on the Klukkowski microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, as we can see, have come across two points of view: professional and political. A professional says the law has to be repealed, political says it cannot be done. I want to give you another legal argument. Such a law was passed by the Supreme Council in 98. On March 2, 99, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine declared it unconstitutional as a violation of the rights of local self-government, because the question of setting municipal tariffs is the exclusive authority of the executive organs of local self-government. For these reasons, the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, felt that he had to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision. I would like to agree with the reasoning expressed by my colleague Cibenko about what really needs to be done first to ensure the European level of wages and pensions and then the municipal tariffs. And in this respect, I think it would make sense if such questions were addressed to the budget yesterday. Does it contribute to European wages and pensions? So it seems to me that if today is overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u82	Let me finish. He's got three minutes, not one minute. I'm asking Yuri Bogdanovich, the last sentence no one has heard from you in three minutes, not alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u83	Thank you. I think if the President's veto is over today, the President will no doubt sign this law and there will be, I think, no recourse to the Constitutional Court unless he is asked by the government to do so. And let's see how this law is going to be consistent with the budget that the anti-crisis coalition supported yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u84	Let us not be hasty, but let us consider such things, summarizing our conversation today. The law provided for a moratorium on price increases and tariffs for 2006. This law was adopted before the purposes announced by the Cabinet of Ministers in this regard. At the beginning, let's say last year's parliament of last cadence wanted to encourage the government to take measures to possibly reform prices and tariffs, perhaps to create conditions for change, let's say, order in housing and utilities and so on. And the president vetoed, and the prices were up. If we're declaring a moratorium today, that means we're already fixing a price hike, because the law is going to come into force in two or three weeks. And that means that these prices are still going to be realized, they're going to be implemented like they're set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. We're not doing anything here. However, what the deputy minister said should be taken into account, the price of the law for two months, even if a moratorium was imposed, would reach about a billion dollars. So for a year, it's about 6 billion. In view of the fact that there is an objective process for us today, the process does not depend on gas, especially on energy, but also on energy. But if we're talking about the 2006 moratorium, we can look at that. However, once again, the effect has little to do with it. Obviously, the President here was thinking pragmatically when he suggested this, because we need to reform housing and utilities, and here's a speech about heat, water supply or what's absolutely justified. Yesterday I met with the mayor of one of the cities of Kotovské Odesk and he spoke about the experience they had. I think Yuri Serbin's committee and other committees will be studying this experience. We'll probably have a seminar there, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, and we'll see how we need to reform housing and utilities. So that there are no intermediaries, so that no one can take advantage of water, energy, others, gas, and that the consumer can directly access services from the state, and then it turns out that they can prepare for the winter and create normal conditions for life, order in the city, and so on. I think we can see it all. However, there is a proposal made by the President to reject the draft Law and I put it to a vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:22:12]] For-30 30 votes. Unable to refuse. I'm betting on a project, a proposal made by the MPs and a co-reporter to overcome the veto, please. There's a vote coming. [[11:22:46]] For 340. For 340, the veto is considered to be overpowered and so on, the President. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 183, “Blok Timoshenko” – 100, “Our Ukraine” – 4, “SPU - 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 3. I repeat, it's about that. Please, don't worry. Please, calm down. Everybody calm down. The point is that this document needs not only the President and the government, but everyone. And what I'm saying is that it only determines that high prices and tariffs on gas and electricity remain elevated because the law goes into effect late. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Reported by Gurgy Andriy Mikolaiovich, deputy minister of education and science. First Deputy, I'm sorry, I humiliated you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u85	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, adopted by the Supreme Council on 16 March 2006, cannot be signed by the President for the following reasons. First of all, part of the fifth new edition of article 24 is proposed for the calculation of a scientist’s pension to take into account his salary, both at the main location and at the level of compatibility. Unfortunately, this is not in line with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, which establishes that a scientific worker is a scientist who, according to the main place of work and according to the employment contract, contracts, professionally engages in scientific and technical, scientific and organisational or scientific teaching activities. In addition, the inclusion in the wage, which is calculated on the basis of a pension based on compatibility, will encourage scientists to work together. In view of this, it is suggested that the fifth part of the new article 24 should be replaced by the words “by the main job and by the combination” by the words “by the main place of work”. Another reason. According to Part 9 of the new edition of article 24, the difference between the amount of the assigned pension under this law and the amount of the pension calculated according to other legislative acts to which a scientific worker is entitled is financed for scientific, scientific and pedagogical employees of state budgetary institutions and scientific organizations of all forms of property at the expense of the State budget. Thus, the commitment to pay the difference is entirely based on the State budget. Unlike a valid norm, which is now in operation for us, which is intended only for scientific or academic staff of state-owned budgetary institutions. On the basis of the statement, it is considered appropriate to leave the valid order of payment of the difference between the amount of the pension assigned under the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine and the amount of the pension calculated in accordance with the other legislative acts to which a scientific worker is entitled. Thus, the President proposes an article, a new edition of article 24, and presents it in the next edition. The difference between the amount of pension assigned under this law and the amount of pension calculated under other legislative acts is financed by: First. For scientific, scientific and pedagogical employees of government budgetary institutions, scientific organizations, higher education institutions 3, 4, the level of accreditation at the expense of the State budget. And for scientific or scientific educators of other state-owned enterprises, the government budget is paid 50 percent per person, and 50 percent is allocated to laws that exist. And for the rest. For scientific, scientific and pedagogical workers of non-state scientific institutions and higher education institutions, 3.4 levels are in accreditation at the expense of these institutions and organizations. In view of this, it is proposed to support the President’s proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u86	Is there a question for the reporter? Sign up. Three minutes, literally, because there's only one, I see a person wanting to ask a question. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, did you want? Tomenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u87	Andriy Mikolaiovich, Mikola Tomenko. You know very well, I think those people who came from science here or from education that in the mass of their scientists or scientists don't work in one college or one university there. Usually, in order to support their family, especially in previous years and even now, they work, such as reading lectures at a university, working for example at an academic institute, or working at an academic institute, reading lectures at a university. And I think it's still fair to interpret it as how to get them or pass them on knowledge to realize their efforts as scientists. So I can't agree with what I'm saying. It's scientific compatibility, it's not business, they're not trading in the market. Not to be interpreted as part of a salary. I think it's unfair for scientists. And what do you think, knowing also the system of our scientific education, is that in part the compatibility of keeping the rule of law?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. First of all, there is no legal basis for leaving the salary and for combining it and for including it in the amount of pension for the following reasons: we are in conflict with another law, article 1 of the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technical Activities, which clearly determines that a scientific worker is the one who is the principal, the basis of the contract or the contract of employment. So from a logical point of view, you're right, but from now on, you need these obstacles, maybe overcome, make changes and go back to that question. And now it's in contradiction in this treatment and it can't be signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u89	Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Dear reporter! Here I raise my hand. We're looking at the draft Law on Science and Technology. But we're having a conversation and we're only offerings on pay, pay, that's all. I'm sure that the true scientist somehow demeans and doesn't allow it, the scientist never raises the question of his pay. First of all, he asks questions to create conditions for fruitful work. Then there'll be pay, and there'll be more. So don't you think that's how we compromise scientific activity, but we're talking about wages to review and view this law in general, more than just grabbing, lobbying some of the interests of certain people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u91	Thank you. I can't quite agree with your point of view here. The point is that the law on scientific and scientific and technical activity has just described this scientific and scientific and technical activity in a comprehensive way, including all the chapters: and the definition of what “scientific” is and what “activity” is and what social protection is. And that's why the question of wages, the question of pensions, is that it's part of social protection for participants in science and technology. And it's article 24 that defines these mechanisms. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u92	Don't you think the reason for this warning is because there are many commercial institutions today where wages can be set for other institutions freely? And so can some unwelcome people, or can interested people teach or count as teachers there at some point in time, and on the basis of that, do they put extra pressure on the pension fund, which is not based on its contribution to the pension fund in the previous period? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u93	Alexander Alexandrovich, well, you're said to be in the tenth. And the point is, honourable deputies, not in the limited amount of retirement, but in the diversification of sources. The law and article 24 do not limit size, but it does indicate where to take these deltas to pensions accrued according to existing legislation. And the arguments that Reverend Alexander Alexander said are in our mind, because not always some organizations, such as non-state ownership, are responsible for counting these amounts, so it would be unfair to translate it into a budget. That's why the legislator explains that you're going to pay 50 percent, and so think when you do, you're going to get pensions under such a mechanism. And given these arguments, there is some logic in leaving a valid order that was in article 24.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the Subcommittee on Science and Education Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u95	Deputies! The question that we are considering right now is very important. I would like to remind you that it was only September of this year that the committee considered it three times. On September 6th, the Committee reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and to adopt legislation in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. But on September 13, 2006, in connection with the numerous appeals made by scientists and scientific institutions, the committee decided to withdraw from the Supreme Council’s consideration of this law. On September 20, 2006, after a meeting with representatives of public scientific organizations, representatives of the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Committee decided not to accept the President's proposals and to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the President's veto and adopt legislation in a consistent manner. I remind you that the President of Ukraine has returned this law three times. The deputies of the last call also rejected twice the President's proposals for legislation. What's the problem? The adoption of the President’s proposals leads to violations of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the master code of Ukraine, and it would not be desirable for the Supreme Council to engage in violations of those laws. The point is that the financing of scientific pensions at the expense of businesses and organizations, as proposed by the President: 50 per cent for state and 100 per cent for non-states, violates Article 6 of the Code of Masters and interferes with their economic activities. That is, scientific institutions that are required to carry out scientific research impose on them the activities and payments of pensions that are not provided by their statutes. As a result, most scientific organizations, especially sectoral science, are bankrupt and unable to work actively. These institutions are now working on an average of three times as many employees as they used to, and the pension is paid to all pensioners who worked for them. For this reason, the committee was overwhelmed by letters from scientific and sectoral organizations. The next is taking into account work by combining the size of a scientist's pension. I will point out that today this issue has been resolved by valid legislation. The compatibility activity is provided for by legislation and is part of the wages of a scientific worker under article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. Such a rule applies to all pensioners, by which the Ukrainian law on compulsory government pension insurance - all types of earnings are included in the calculation of the pension. The president proposes that in the calculation of pensions, the wages of a scientist should be taken into account only at the main workplace. This undermines the rights of scientific workers and does not conform to the provisions of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. All of this will lead to the fact that in non-state colleges, first of all, they will raise prices for education, and for what they are so critical of, secondly, they have mentioned an already respected report on the fact that there are still institutions of state, but not budgeted, for example, the Academy of Sciences or academic institutes. And what position will we put them in? This will lead to the fact that our science will not develop at all. And finally, someone deliberately spreads rumors, and now they're talking about it, not directly, but they said that those workers who work in public institutions and in private, pensions, there, up to 16,000, up to 18,000. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And according to the Pension Fund, July 1, 2006. The average pension of a scientific worker is 1,121 bracelets, of which the total is 602 bracelets, and the difference is paid by the budget or the organization is 518 bracelets. That is, there is no such enormous burden on the budget for the adoption of the Law in the first form proposed. The total cost will be about 83 million dollars. Therefore, from these positions, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council to overcome the veto of the President and to adopt the Law in an unalterable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u96	No questions asked by the reporter? None. Okay. Have a seat, please. Following this procedure, I am voting on individual Presidential proposals in terms of their support. That is, the first amendment in paragraph 4 of the draft Law of the Comparative Table you have the words, as “the main place of work and the co-existence”, to replace the words “the main place of work”. I'm betting on the President's motion. [[11:39:29]] For 265 Decision taken. The second amendment to the article reported here is before your eyes to determine the difference between the amount of pension provided for in this Law and the amount of pension calculated according to other legislative acts. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. The President's proposal is being put to the vote. [[11:40:03]] For 259. Decision taken. In general, the draft law amending the President is being voted on, please. [[11:40:26]] For 265 Decision taken. Thus, an adopted law, voted with amendments by the President. By factions, please publish. The President to support the 180 Party of Regions, Timoshenko Block 2, Our Ukraine 47, SPI 32, communist 0, non-fractional-4. Thank you. Please, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the mandatory State Pension Insurance, reports the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sanchenko Andrija Vilenović. [[on the rights and guarantees of individual categories of pensioners]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! You and I have a historic opportunity to correct the extraordinary cruelty laid down in article 33 of the National Pension Insurance Act. Here's the thing. If persons with disabilities in the second and third groups receive a pension as a percentage of the age pension, in particular those with disabilities in the third group 50 per cent, the persons with disabilities in the second group 90 per cent. If these persons with disabilities have 25 years of insurance, women, 20 years of insurance, respectively, are entitled to a pension equal to 100% of the age pension. But today's law has a very harsh norm: it obliges a person with disabilities to access the pension fund and to clarify their desire to receive a large pension under the law. We must understand that this is a category of our fellow citizens who have health problems which are generally certain, so to speak, of age, which is quite large. And here's the rule that pushes them to get to the Pension Fund, stand in line and say the obvious thing. She is, in my opinion, such cruelty. In view of the entry into force of the law on compulsory State pension insurance as of 1 January 2004, I would like to stress once again, depending on the disability group, the corresponding percentage of the age pension. The essence of our proposal is as follows. To change the interpretation of article 33, paragraph 2, of the second part. Describe in the next line. “In the case of non-working persons, the second, third group, 25, 20 years of insurance, the disability pension shall be granted at the age calculated in accordance with articles 27 and 28 of the Act as from the date of the birth of such a right. At this point in time, the law is the moment of these 25 and 20 years of service.” I would like to say that, unfortunately, there are also examples in the practice of the Pension Fund, where a 45-year-old, a third- or second-group disabled person, comes, when he is disabled, comes to form a disability pension, but has a 25-year pension, usually not receiving full-time advice, he is granted a disability pension, although he is entitled to receive a pension of 50 per cent of the pension by age, since he, without knowing his rights, has applied for a third-group disability pension. At the same time, he is entitled to a 100 per cent pension. I would like to emphasize that this problem concerns some 1 million people, persons with disabilities from the second and third groups in our country. The Pension Fund's statement that these problems have already been resolved, unfortunately, do not reflect the reality. This has been said by many citizens. And most importantly, it's not an exhaustive figure of 1 million 700. So we have people who have a disability pension who have the right to a large pension with the same disability. I want you and I to consider that each of us has parents. Most of the people here are people who grew up in small towns or in rural areas. Let's model the situation. The village, typical Ukrainian. Fall. It's raining, the bus, at best, one day at a time, and that's the same grandmother or grandparent who has all the legal rights, the opportunity to collect this last penny, get on the bus, get to the district center, get in line with the Pension Fund in order to say the obvious thing: "I want to get a more just pension." In closing, I would like to say that the Scientific and Expert Office supported the draft regulation. I wish to express my gratitude to the Committee on Legal Policy, Kushnarev Evgeny Petrovich also signed a positive opinion on behalf of the Committee. Regrettably, the General Committee on Disability and Pensioners, for reasons that were unclear to me, supported the position of the Ministry of Labour and the Pension Fund, which had been hampered by a great deal of work related to the elimination of this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u98	Is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. We also have a reporter here, Sergey Vasilovich Czervonopissky. No need to report. There's a deputy minister. Yeah, hold on. And Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, also co-reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, first of all, the essence of the law is now quite detailed today by the author of the bill. As chairman of the committee, as a national MP, I want to confirm that there is a problem that this bill is aimed at solving. It really does exist. And given that this problem is happening, the committee was trying to save that rational grain that was laid down in this law. We've looked at this document twice. For the first time, trying to get this problem out of the Supreme Council Hall in the way that it could have been adopted. We asked the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Pension Fund to work with the author on the document, and a document came out that could be supported by the Supreme Council. But unfortunately, this week, which was, let's say, not enough for this document to be finalized. And so the committee had to decide that this document, this bill, once again, is relevant in terms of the problem of existence, which is important for the population, that it still needs work. Because falsely, incompletely or without considering all the factors, the idea can sometimes have the opposite effect. So the committee was forced to, I emphasize once again, decide that, understanding that there is a rational grain, understanding that there is a problem, and in order not to lose this idea, to send a document to work on. We asked a question to the Pension Fund and to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in this area, would it be possible, by adopting this document in the first reading, to work on it in the interval to the second reading? Unfortunately, both the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are strongly opposed. So that's what the committee's decision on that project is today. And I'd like to go back to the author who reported on the bill today from the rostrum. Him. From his mouth it was said that the committee had made such a decision for reasons that were not clear to him. Probably not clear because you weren't at the two sessions, there was another author, probably though she would confirm that the committee was doing its best to accept this document in the first reading. But unfortunately, today he cannot, in view of what I have said, be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u100	Any questions to Peter Stepanovich? Please sign in. I see two questions, three hands. Please, five minutes. Sign up. Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u101	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Peter Stepanovich, a general strange situation arises, another committee that is not profiled, supports this initiative, which you call the right one, which affects the interests of more than a million pensioners. And your committee, which you lead, is a representative of a party of Communists who have always expressed their affection for the protection of the elderly, suddenly opposes. Your argument was that the second reading of this bill is not recommended by officials from the Pension Fund, and you agree. Aren't you ashamed to act as a Communist as head of the committee and reject such a necessary and urgent bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. I told you by accident that the committee had come back to this question twice. It would have been easier for the committee to make an obvious first submission, and when the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy had made a proposal against perhaps it would have been easier to make a decision then. But we tried to save the idea, save the bill, and so we tried to work through the weeks. Unfortunately, this week was not enough. And what's more, I'm saying once again that it's about the fact that the committee is still confirming that there is a problem. Secondly, there is a rational grain in this document, and that's why the committee decided not to reject the document, but to redraft it. I think that's the maximum I could do for the committee. And as for who votes in the Supreme Council Hall, you know, I want to say that the committee has never tried to be higher than the Supreme Council's will. If the Ukrainian national MPs listen to the arguments that have been made in this room, it is the will of the Supreme Council and the committee will do the will that will be realized during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u103	Kaltsov instead of Rijuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u104	This bill is socially directed. An example of this is the desire to address the existing problem by the Cabinet of Ukraine's decision of 18 September 2004 to improve the level of social security. Which, at the time, allowed for a little but to facilitate the situation of our citizens whose pension was below the subsistence minimum. Only when a rule is laid down that the disability or loss of a breadwinner's pension is at least a subsistence minimum can social guarantees be respected for this category of citizens. But, as is often the case, we do not have enough budget for social projects. The drafters did not indicate the sources of funding for additional costs from the State budget. Therefore, as head of the pid committee to study the impact of the draft legislation on the budget of Ukraine, the budget committee, I propose that the draft be sent for finalization. Identify real sources of funding and then vote in favour as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u105	Thank you. Any more questions? Senchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Suškević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u107	Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would still like someone to read who's speaking, the bill itself. What's the point? This is about whether today a disabled person will be eligible for another pension, a pension, a pension, a pension, a pension, and a real right to receive that pension? This is about accessibility for a disabled social infrastructure, which is now a barrier that is not accessible. And in the village and in the city, I want to say that at the age of 18, three years, I didn't get a pension just because one inspector told me, "You can't get one." I didn't just write a statement. That's it. And for three years, I didn't get a disability pension. The language is in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u109	Valeriy Mikhailovich, this wasn't under the conditions of an independent Ukraine, so now it's going to be okay. Please. Can you comment? Well, it's not a question, it's just a performance. We'll watch the show. Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u110	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u111	Denisova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u112	Thank you. Please be good, I would like to draw the attention of all the people's deputies to the security that has been handed over to all of us, our bill that it should be sent for finalization. I'd like to explain to you, and to the chairman of the committee, and to all of you. The fact that, to date, our bill will have an impact on the fact that a pensioner, while receiving a disability pension and receiving a 100 per cent retirement pension, will lose benefits and subsidies. It's completely unrelated. And we've read these questions. Moreover, I must assure you all that there is no need for additional funds for this project, because as early as November 2004, the standard is the same as that of a person.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u113	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, and the discussion that has taken place in the hall now, once again testify to what I have said several times today. What's the problem is trying to solve it, and that's why today, no matter how much the Supreme Council votes, I'd like to go to the Deputy Minister of Labor, the Social Policy of Helen Vasilevna Hotachoya. Helen Vasilovna, we discussed this issue twice at a committee meeting. I'm asking you on behalf of the P.I. committee, after hearing what was happening in the hall with the employees of the Pension Fund, together with the authors to come back to this problem. If it's not supported, because we're convinced today, there's a problem, and we really have to solve it, because it's the fate of the people, the fate of the disabled. So if I'm supported, the committee will work, work on this document. If it's not supported, I'm asking the Ministry of Labour, social policy, to make this problem a real step in the way of solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Valery Mikhailovich, you've made your point. Motives. Come on, Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! I want you to pay attention to this law. And a colleague who spoke about sources of funding. This is about the procedure of listing and assigning pensions for the disabled and all. This is about whether a disabled person can actually get a pension or a pension by sitting at home with no legs. It's an automatic foreman who's sitting at the Pension Fund and everything so he doesn't go there. Here's the idea of a bill. By the way, I also have pretensions on some of the questions of second reading. They can and should be done, but they cannot be accepted as a basis. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u117	I want to draw your attention to what the draft decree says: accept as a basis. And no one doubts that he will be accepted in the first reading. Helen Vasilovna Hotya, Deputy Minister for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! There can be no government apart from the problems that concern national MPs today. And we've been trying at the Supreme Council Committee to propose to the people's deputies to replace the previously handed-in draft law, which is to be passed on as a basis and as a whole, and to resolve this issue immediately. The point is, Alexandre Alexandrovich, that changes are made to article 33, although the law itself provides for the period of the assignment of pensions in article 45. And if there's the Supreme Council's will, we're going to work on second reading, but there's going to be a concession from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, if we're going to accept the changes to article 33, we're going to make the second reading to 45, so that we can understand that. And we will continue to work to ensure that our fellow countrymen have the opportunity to receive payment at the proper time. We are ready to reform this law. And that's what the matter was on the Supreme Council Committee. Today, it's just that there's been a discussion about whether to reform this law as part of the second reading, or whether to submit it, and adopt it as a basis, as a law in general, after the work of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's put the dots above the "and" No one denies the need for law enforcement on the basis of law and justice. And the initiators of the bill are absolutely right when they talk about the need to take into account specific life situations that should not put a person who, by law, needs a pension, depending on the official, on the person who can unwittingly treat him, demanding that he come and say orally that he needs to be counted. If you have to, you have to count it. And there's a financial justification that doesn't have to be simple, because the law has to work the same for everyone. It would cost more, so it would cost more, because it would not save on the fact that someone would not apply the adopted law. But from his point of view, Helen Vasilyvna made this point, and Peter Stepanovich Cibenko also made his own statement. The law must be irreprehensible from a legal point of view. That's why I'm going to put him to the vote in the first reading, because the committee and the initiators -- the Pension Insurance Committee -- are going to work on him, and we're going to accept him in just two weeks. So I'm putting this bill to the vote for adoption in the first reading. [[12:01:56]] For 403 Decision taken. I wanted to consult with you. We've got one question left for the day. We can now look at it in 15 minutes and then take an hour to the "Variance" and I can, under the Rules, announce a half hour break and then. Let's do this: since I have 15 minutes to go on, I still have 13 minutes to spare. Let's take a look at this time, and then let's talk about whether we're going to take a break. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid. [[on the procedure for granting humanitarian assistance to Ukraine]] National Deputy of Ukraine Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Your opinion is a bill that I have put forward at the right time, but I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Preparatory Committee for Peter Stepanovich Cibenk, because there are two errors, i.e., according to the paragraph. Article 1 of Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the powers of the Supreme Council shall include the approval of decisions on the granting of loans and economic assistance by Ukraine to foreign states and international organizations. However, article 10 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid establishes that the decision to grant humanitarian aid to Ukraine is taken by the Supreme Council or the President of Ukraine. I have proposed a bill that conforms to the Constitution of article 10 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid concerning the powers of the Supreme Council and the powers of the President of Ukraine, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Such an article 10 is proposed. The decision to grant humanitarian aid to Ukraine is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by the President of Ukraine, followed by the approval of these decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, it is proposed to leave the possibility for the President of Ukraine to make decisions on humanitarian aid, but, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to approve these decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the humanitarian aid granted to Ukraine to other states is not economic aid, but is a charity, and therefore the approval of such decisions does not apply to the powers of the Supreme Council. The stated conclusion, to my conviction, testifies to the lack of competence of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration in the area of budgetary legislation and powers of the Supreme Council. It makes two mistakes. First, humanitarian assistance to foreign states is provided at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine, i.e. the contingency fund. And the approval of the state budget expenditure certainly refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Charity and Charity Organizations, charity is a voluntary, selfless donation of natural or legal persons. A good organization is a nonstate organization at all. In addition, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office concludes that the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve decisions to grant humanitarian assistance will significantly slow the process of providing such assistance to other States. For example, instead of taking a decision by the President of Ukraine, it is necessary to grant this right to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the following circumstances: firstly, under the existing order of humanitarian assistance, following an order from the President of Ukraine, it is necessary to adopt the relevant Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, i.e. either the Cabinet of Ministers or the President; secondly, pursuant to article 116 of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine organizes and ensures the implementation of Ukraine's external economic activities. With regard to the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on pensioners, veterans and invalids, I will note that, according to the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it has been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 11 July of this year, the number for all - the recognition of the above-mentioned committee is the issue of the legislative regulation of humanitarian aid coming to Ukraine and not provided by Ukraine. Therefore, when considering the issue of assistance to other states at the expense of the State budget, it is necessary to draw the conclusion of the Committee on Budget Affairs. I will point out that in the Committee's discussion, it was noted that this bill puts the President of Ukraine under the control of the Supreme Council on this issue, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine should also control the use of the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine. To my conviction, it is necessary to allow the MPs to look at the directions for using Ukraine's humanitarian assistance to other states. For example, let me give you some examples. In 2006, Ukraine helped other states, well, there were Kyrgyzstan, the Islamic Republic. and so forth, including only 56 percent of this aid, has been sent to Georgia in connection with the situation that resulted from an emergency of gas and electricity supply, which has led to a steady shortage of energy supplies needed for the country’s viability. Compare: 56 percent – 10 million is given to Georgia. God forbid Georgia from any disaster, but you can see that it also needs parliamentary control in comparison with other states. In summary, I ask the MPs to adopt the proposed bill, either in the first reading or in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u121	Any questions for the reporter? Ruslan Petrovich has two and Szczevczuk, this will be, and Grigorovich, five minutes ask the question. Please, Ruslan Petrovich, the last name has gone out. Give it to me. Ah, Knyazevich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u122	Valeriy Anatoliyovich, I have this plan of question: do you really not see the difference between lending, economic aid and humanitarian aid, do you not think that what you are talking about is a violation of the constitutional order, if the Supreme Council is simply not making sense? It's about putting MPs openly into deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u123	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, as a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, you probably know the difference. And you didn't listen very carefully to my report as to what it meant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u124	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Dear reporter, I have listened carefully to your report, and so I want you to answer that question, if we live in a time of cataclysm, if there is a disaster in a neighbouring state the day before our holidays, the President is making a decision on humanitarian aid that you understand, I hope, I should do it immediately, and what do you suggest that we make a decision in September? Have you assembled for the next session in order to comply with the law you are drafting?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, really, this decision is taken urgently and, as you've seen in those examples that I've been quoting, but then, since the Supreme Council controls the use of State budget funds, then this decision, as I suggest, should agree with the Supreme Council, or maybe I can agree with that observation if we go to second reading, or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on an operational basis. I mean, I don't take the President's right in this bill. It's his right to give it up on an urgent basis, but he's agreed to use the state budget funds, and it's up to the Supreme Council to control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u127	Please, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u128	Dear reporter. Please, do you think? I have two questions. Do you think the watt, gauze, bandage, and wheelchair are economic aid? That's the first question. And don't you think that if you do, God forbid, whether we have in a country or in a neighbouring country, there will be a need to provide humanitarian aid on the part of Ukraine, and Parliament will be on vacation or in a non-working mode, and so we'll look pretty inconvenient, because it's a very expensive spoon for lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u129	Dear Lilia Grigorovna! Well, you know, there are some questions when Parliament agrees -- well, it's about ratifying some international agreements or something. So I'm not interested in not giving. We will definitely provide humanitarian assistance. But with the approval of the Supreme Council when it gathers. No, why will “the one who is sick die ”? You can see that, for example, the State of Georgia has provided 10 million in connection with the halting of gas supplies. No one died, no earthquake.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko would like the committee to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The committee considered the draft law. In analysing the intentions of the drafters of the bill, the committee fully shares the intentions used by the authors of the bill. In conditions where changes to the Constitution, at least the movement from the Presidential to the Parliamentary-Presidential Republic was initiated, that's perfectly logical. And in that sense, I think this initiative has absolutely the right to life. But what logic did the members of the committee use when making the decision that was made? The committee offered to accept, send this document for further processing. We used the logic that came out of one of the questions today. Imagine, for a moment, when the Supreme Council is either on vacation, vacations, or as we had a period of time ago, and there is some natural disaster in the country, the President has the right to make that decision today. In that situation, if it takes effect and the rule proposed, there will be a situation in which the President will make a decision, but there will be no movement on this assistance until the Supreme Council makes the appropriate decision on this decree or this decision of the President. And there might be a situation where they wanted to do what was best, and I have no doubt that the MPs, by introducing this bill, wanted to, let's say, improve this rule, and it turned out as always. So the committee came out of this very logic that this might be a subsequent approval by the Supreme Council of the President's decision to grant humanitarian aid, just by trying to bring this process in order, we can kind of slow it down for a very long time. That is, the logic of the committee’s decision stemmed from this situation, which, under certain circumstances, might dampen the process of granting humanitarian aid to one State or another. Once again, the very initiative in that logic that Ukraine has at least initiated the process of transition from the Presidential Parliamentary to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic, it is perfectly logical, normal, but we have only been guided by the fact that such a change to the Humanitarian Aid Act can slow down the humanitarian aid process.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u132	Thank you. Sit down, please, because you, in fact, understand everything without asking. He set out what is in fact. I wanted to contact the initiator of the adoption of this bill, Valeri Anatoliyovich, with these words. Of course, it is necessary to control the financial costs, but we have an effective and fast tool, the Accounting Chamber. We can take your initiative, any deputy, I'll sign a warrant or, if necessary, the Supreme Council will make a decision and the question will be clarified. So from the point of view of international practice, the adoption of such a document is a little bit wrong and, given the internal political situation, it's not very good-looking. So I'd like you to agree with the proposal of the expert board and the Pension Insurance Committee that we reject this project, because there's just no need for it. And do not insist on another. I think all the factions support this proposal, it's quite correct. That's because order is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in one way or another, and the Cabinet of Ministers is subordinated to Parliament. He can't accept anything else. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree that you're given to reject this bill. I'm asking this question as a decision of the Supreme Council. Please. [[12:16:34]] For 352 Thank you. Decision taken. For 352. We thank Anatolyovich for his initiative. Thank you. Now we have the opportunity to take an hour to the “Victane”. Can I just take a break? Please write down to express your thoughts. Please show an hour on the monitor. Mutz has the word. He's got a Jaduh on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u133	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues! Dear Ternopils! My native Ternopilla has many problems, one of which is long-lived, which is very important for the area in socio-cultural terms. On promises, these objects are traditionally made by representatives of their political careers who have been delegated by the so - called pseudo - democratic forces that have dominated Ternopil for the past 15 years. But promises remain promises. Probably because the patriots among the Ternopil representatives are still few. Yes, as early as 1992, construction of the Ternopil State Archives began. To date, this building has not been completed. The completion of the construction of the archive was heard at meetings of the College, the Ombudsman and the “Cuchmin” and the “orange”, the order of the head of the ODA of 23 June 2006 No 383 “On the implementation of the Ukrainian President's order of 13 April 2005 No 957 “On urgent measures for the preservation of national archival values in Ukraine”, the first item of which is “the completion of the construction of the archive”. But nothing has been done yet. To complete the new premises of the Ternopil district archive, a little more than 7 million dollars is needed. That's why I'm drafting a bill to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2007 asking for funds to be provided for the construction of the Ternopil district charter. Because the state-of-the-art area, which was located in an area that was not suitable for storing the documents of the National Archive of the Foundation in the monastery, is now in crisis. The load was more than 100 percent. Further ignoring problems can lead to the creation of white spots in the history of the Ternopil region. And the archives are priceless, and they contain documents from the Council of Pocaius and Uspens since 1557, copies of Russian, Austrian, Prussian official acts relating to the first division. It's just a glimpse of documents that we can lose. The greenhouse is called the wheelhouse of the orange revolution, the barometer of democracy, but I don't know which one. And let's not do politics, let's do specific things. And that's why I'm addressing Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Mikli Janović Azarov, Committee of the Supreme Council for Budget Affairs, Maceinko Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Head of the State Committee for Archives of Ukraine, Olga Hinzburg, please help and Ternopolščina will be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u134	Jadushka, follow him, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed Decree No. 999 of July 19, 2006 on the approval of the procedures for the provision of disabled persons by cars. This regulation does not regulate a number of legislative acts that result in violations of the constitutional rights of persons and in mistrust of the authority in force. The inhabitants of the Hmelni district, who have become keepers of the marked cargo, are forced to appeal to the judicial authorities for protection of their rights and specifically ask what the government has attached to the disability. Selling cars, living, purchasing a worn-out car abroad that couldn't provide our own, unfortunately, country. And this decree forces a disabled person to live forever with too much regret, that is not possible. Thus, paragraph 16 of the decree provides that after his death, the disabled car that he was provided with remains in the use of his family members if it has a disability. Paragraph 41 of the same decree states that after death, the car returns to the Chief Social Security Authority and appears to be a metallurgy, or another disability. The decree does not provide a number of proposals from the regions. This is a return on the cost of a disabled family provided through work and social protection agencies with 7.30 percent of its own costs if the car was used for less than 10 years. Article 6, paragraph 5 of Ukraine’s Humanitarian Aid Act of 22.10.99 clearly defines the types of imported cars as aid. Article 3 of the same law stipulates that a change in the recipient of humanitarian aid can only be made in agreement with foreign donors. The question is, Who would practically search for a donor who would name a disabled person to whom he would grant a car and carry out a number of other procedures? If the laws of Ukraine have a higher legal power than the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the question arises: How effective, how to act to the appropriate authorities regarding the execution of this decree. I have one answer: The decision taken earlier by the government of Yehanurov. And the Ukrainians should know this, a certain category of people, and it came into effect when the Yanukovich government came to work. Clearly, this is one of the underwater stones of discrediting the new government. And that's why it works, this decision against this category of people is not regulated by law, and that's why it's going to be put before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about its elimination. Stop experimenting. There is much to work on in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u136	Kowal has the word. Behind him, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u137	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, “Our Ukraine”. Statement by the faction of the Block “Our Ukraine”. The return of the government of Yanukovic to a series of decrees by the President of Ukraine is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Lawmakers from the government's office argued their illegal actions with little-known Ukrainians - countersignance. This specific legal term is used to cover up actions that can be likened to a coup d’état. The decision to return the decrees of the Head of State was made in silence, in full violation of all possible procedures, and was not discussed at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting in Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is obliged to call for presidential decrees, thereby confirming that he knows about these decrees and takes them into effect. Another interpretation, the concept of countersignancy, does not exist in the world's legal practice. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine did not recommend to the Prime Minister that the decrees of the President of Ukraine be returned. In this regard, the faction “Our Ukraine” states that it will not allow extremist anti-constitutional action by any authority or political power. We demand the appointment of a service investigation at the Cabinet of Ministers and the punishment of guilty officials without regard for rank and office. We demand that the Prime Minister give a political and administrative assessment of the actions of his subjects. In the event that our demands are not met, we leave behind the right to defend the Constitution, to protect the President by any legal means. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u138	Thank you so much for your thought and concern. True, I can see how this has all come to light, that it would be easier for two men to talk to each other and establish order according to the Constitution and not raise noise. Well. Boki Ivan Sidorovich is speaking. No, I'm not commenting, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, I hesitated three minutes ago whether to go out or not. And I even wanted to give up. But after the last performance, I think we should pay attention to some things. You know, worshiping any official in the state always has a negative meaning, first of all, for the state and for the people. And because of these, I want to remind you of a recent case. When the President of Ukraine made a major statement at his press conference, I think the remarks at the government's address were still very unconvincing. He noted that the appointment was made mainly by government officials from one region, and I'm going to say in secret that it was also a concern to many, and to me, including me, and he said that the greatest headship was the appointment of the head of the State Department instead of the doctor of the historical sciences who had previously held this post. And here I want to say that we can agree on something, disagree with something, but we have to have the moral right to do it. More recently, Ukraine has all talked about the appointment of best men, dear friends, a few dozen people from Nedrigailov and a native Armour of the President. And then, even when these people had six convictions, at the time, the President didn't pay attention. Today he's turning. He makes sense of it, but again, who would talk about it? With regard to the appointment of the head of Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, and he was talking about a woman, in this regard, I'm actually wondering if we should talk about headship somehow, because it's a woman. As for the doctor, not the doctor, and who do we have as culture minister? The same kind of technique and the person who for culture, excuse me, is a stranger. Yeah? So what are we talking about right now? Let's say that when we talk about these things, we have a major national, national interest, and then we're talking about personnel and so on. But in all of this, we need to maintain a sense of tact and a sense of, let's say, political delicacy, I'm not talking about human delicacy anymore, even though it won't be necessary for any official to go from the head of the country to the president. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u140	I'll keep my mouth shut, because obviously Ivan Sidorovich didn't hesitate for long. So please, Lukyanchuk has the word. After him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We have just witnessed the last draft bill that we wanted to test the strength of our President and his team. But I just wanted to express my opinion about the fact that there was no discussion, so I want to make a statement in the “Variance” on this issue. And what I want to say is that these bills, which we've been looking at lately, are similar, they continue a very dangerous trend towards restricting the President's powers and concentrating authority in the hands of one single oligarchy clan. It is very sad to see our President and his surroundings provoke the parliamentary majority to another act of political infatuation. Lately, it is no longer clear whether our president is in the country at all. Soon we will be discussing in the session room the bill for the appointment of a coalition of the Head of the President's Secretariat. I am not pleased to see how the Supreme Council is engaged in petty politics instead of legislative work aimed at improving the welfare of the people. Why is it foolish to waste valuable sessional time? Do we not have more important bills to consider? Why should we consider such provocative, illiterate bills? I'm asking colleagues just to show professionalism and work for our state and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u142	Thank you. Thank you. I recommend that you carefully take the transcript of your speech and analyze it again, it will be useful. Please, Matthew. There's no Matthew. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like to take a moment to address the situation surrounding the Catherine Orthodox Church in Chernigow and around the Cosatian Orthodox Community, which has the full right to rule this church. As you know, indeed, between, on the one hand, the Cossack Orthodox community of Chernigova and the National Architectural and Historical Reserve “Chernigus of the Ancient” is an agreement to rent this church to this Orthodox community. The agreement is valid, and therefore there is no dispute on either side of the conflict. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 06 representatives of the Montenegrin City Organization, the Progressive Socialist Party of Ukraine, have blocked all the entrances to the Catherine Orthodox Church and have prevented believers of the Orthodox community from accessing the temple. The central entrance of the temple is blocked, winding locks are additionally installed, and the door handles are twisted with thick metal wire and so on. At the same time, the priest of the temple, along with the director of the museum and the community, tried to take the first steps to negotiate with the bakers and access to the temple. At the same time, about 30 officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were on the scene, headed by the Deputy Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Chernigiv region of Katerinczuk and the Chief of Administration of the High Police, and without any explanation of their actions, the community was not allowed into the temple. After the Orthodox believers tried to continue to enter the temple, they simply started threatening them in brutal form, and then they were surrounded by coworkers of the Berkut unit and with the use of force and the use of rubber sticks and feet thrown to the ground. Then, according to Katerinczuk’s instructions, “Berkutu” coworkers. All these citizens were detained and taken to the City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Along with them, a number of journalists were detained, and all relevant events were recorded in journalistic films. In their detention, they were subjected to physical and moral violence, beaten with rubber sticks and feet, insulted, inflicted physical pain, moral suffering, forced to lie on the ground all night long, as is the case with all these citizens. More than that, Catherinechuk himself personally threatened that, in addition to this responsibility, physical execution would also be applied to them. In this regard, I take the opportunity to use today’s address to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to accept this message as a parliamentary appeal to commit a crime to be considered, to check the information it contains in the order provided for in article 97 of the Ukrainian KPC and, accordingly, to violate the facts of the criminal case and to attract criminals. to the responsibility of those responsible for the crime. I really wish we had the police in the middle of a conflict, not on one side of the conflict. It's a shame that this is happening further in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Instead of Belarus, Terrence is speaking. A statement on this account of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u145	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, yesterday we witnessed the truth of the unique budget report that was delivered here by Mr. Azarov's first vice-premier. Why is it unique? However, since the report was nothing in its schedule, nothing was said about Ukrainian culture. The word “culture” was not even mentioned in the report, nor was it mentioned. Enthralled by the culture of Mr. Azarov, who in fact reflects the essence of the government of Yanukovic, MP Anatoly Matviyenko said yesterday that Mr. Azarov was making remarkable progress in learning Ukrainian. Indeed, he did not say "July" yesterday, but "glue", not "baby", but "child" and look at the stenogram further. But I don't know if he'll learn to say "July" and "baby" -- it's not that important -- it's much more important if our children know it, our Ukrainian language. Would they know if, instead of 30 million dollars, 21 million dollars were allocated for the development of the national language? And if the concept of culture is foreign to the “professional” government of Yanukovic, after studying the draft budget, we see that there is no hope today for the revival of Ukrainian cinema, Ukrainian book. And today we have one citizen -- please listen to the citizens of Ukraine, too -- one citizen per year has 0.75 books, that's when Belarus is five, Russia is 10, Poland is 12. In other words, when 0.75 books are published and even worse, it turns out that Mr. Azarov and Mr. Janukovic will read one book for two. Well, there was no place for Ukrainian culture in the budget, but there was room for another, which actually has nothing to do with the budget itself. In fact, from January 1st, the Yanukovich government has allowed prisoners to be transferred to places of deprivation in an unlimited amount of transfer. First, it doesn't have anything to do with the budget, and putting these things into the budget is, well, I'm sorry, this is pure schizophrenia. And secondly, as the number of broadcasts for prisoners increases, the Yanukovich government, well, I think so, he obviously cares about his long-term perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u146	Grigorovich has the floor, please. Behind her is Koloca, yes, Koloca.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Alexandrovich. At the same time, I would like to thank my distinguished colleagues for their decision to amend article 10 of the Humanitarian Aid Act. Highly respected colleagues and respected voters, such concepts as charity, mercy, help, compassion, have no political address. I want to remind you, literally, of a recent tragic event that coincided with the Day of Independence of Ukraine when a Russian aircraft fell into the territory of the Donetsk region. There were weekends, there was no parliament, there was an urgent decision about humanitarian aid. And I'm asking you, dear friends, polytreform wawatts, but political penance such concepts as mercy, kindness and sensitivity do not have and should not have. For as long as we realize it, there will be people, and there will be planets, and there will be earth, and there will be humanism, and we will remain human. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that they do not have the political pronunciation of the concept of protecting human rights and protecting the interests of workers. What am I talking about? Dear friends, I'd like to remind you of the summer of June 2006, on the Mayan of Independence, forgive me for the verb, but I'm going to live it, our unions are going crazy in white and blue. They're very large and they're protecting the right thing, and they're protesting against the government of Yehanurov, which had the price of a thousand cubic meters of gas for the industrialists of 95 conditional units. Fair enough. I would like to ask, as a member of the union, right, medical, without interfering with the statutory activities of the unions, at what cost was such activity? As we know, the increased activity of workers in the spring and autumn trade unions. This is the summer activity of the trade unions. But it had room. Today we have a very different situation: the 2007 budget has set the price of a thousand cubic metres of gas $135 and the price of gas, and the entire Ukrainian society is convinced that it depends neither on the color of hair nor on the growth nor, even, on the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Every country's economic interests are its national interests, and in a contract with a Russian name, the cheaper gas will not sell – it's already an axiom. At the same time, I'd like to ask you, dear friends, do we have trade unions in Ukraine? I appeal to today's leader of Mr. Jurkin's trade unions: uh, Mr. Jurkin, where are you, where are you, the fall of increasing the activity of protecting the rights of workers on our field? It's not politics, it's workers' rights. So I'm sad to say that we had the same union, unfortunately, we got a professional license: they said go out -- they said come in. And I would like to appeal to the Dutch miner, the miner who hears me today, to the active pensioners from Theodosia: we don't have any unions in Ukraine, we have strikesbrechers. I hope that Ukrainian society hears, sees, and then analyzes, because we have a civil society. And this is the conquest of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u148	Thank you. He's acting in place of Koloca, he's passed on the word "kiselov."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u149	Respectable compatriots! We have just overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine and imposed a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for housing and utilities. The Government of Janukovic has been working for a few months, and I have a question: who raised gas and electricity prices twice in the first half of 2006 alone, the main components of the cost structure of housing and utility tariffs. What, did Yanukovich do this? No, this was done by the Government of Yehanurov, and this is now confirmed by colleague Grigorcevic. Grigorovich. Now let's analyze why the price of gas rose from $50 to $120 per 1,000 cubic meters. Because Prime Minister Timoshenko had unilaterally destroyed the intergovernmental agreements and contracts signed by Yanukovic in 2004, which guaranteed Ukraine until 2009, I stress that Russian and Turkmen gas was being obtained at the lowest price in Europe. The question is this: when Timoshenko, when she was Prime Minister, did she not raise the issue of the elimination of SkridRose Energo? Then what, it was all right? Next reason. Those interested know that the results of the audit of the financial and economic activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine have been made public. As a result, we see that the loss in 2005, I stress, in 2005, the loss of this equity company was 2 billion grivens. That's where the price of gas went up. There is serious recent evidence with such a debt that our Ukrainian gas transport system is already heavily indebted. That's the reason. In addition, respected friends, respected compatriots, who came to Moscow to negotiate with Russian President Putin on the issue of gas, spoke to him through an interpreter. At a time when Russia has supplied gas at the most affordable price in Ukraine for the past few years for $2 billion a year. Instead, she was offered to export an orange revolution to Russia and to take a course for immediate NATO entry, which suggests that NATO bases could be placed at the threshold of Russia. Who, who, after that, will continue to provide multibillion dollars of economic assistance? So, I want the Ukrainians to finally realize that after dancing and drinking on Maidan and riding on horses, there is now a sobering moment. We understand that the Cabinet of Ministers will be very difficult. We know that the JCX system is destroyed. But we have voted absolutely consciously in favour of overcoming the veto because we cannot leave people in trouble. We know there are compensatory mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u150	Thank you. Herman. Hanna Herman is speaking, please. Who, who? Please, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, you know, when I look at this part of the hall that was recently closed with yellow and blue Chinese, I conclude that it is filled only when it has to be poured out on the Supreme Council or on some particular deputy. When appropriate serious laws were passed, we worked in the south today, and we saw BUIT pour dirt on the Supreme Council and left the hall to engage in dirty technology. What do I mean? You and I are witnesses of the day-to-day use of dirty technologies, overturning and destroying the prestige and authority of the Supreme Council. Having absolutely groundless accusations, without any evidence, it is said that we are sellers, corrupts and thieves and so forth. We know the thief's hat is on fire. I'm talking about that it's not our fault or our people's fault that people with different levels of political responsibility and with different levels of purely human culture have come to the Supreme Council. We can't fix this anymore. But we can fix something else. We may not allow to discredit the higher public authority without justification and make the image of the Supreme Council in the minds of our citizens -- it was an image of the corrupt and criminals here. So I think we need to develop some new normative ethical norms that would not allow us to blame the deputies of this rostrum for what they didn't do. Perhaps we can by means of such ethical norms deprive ourselves of the right to speak from this rostrum of those deputies who allow themselves to be offended and unjustifiably, again, to accuse others of not doing so. This is a very serious matter. We've been working with you for a few more years, we can't let people have a distorted image of the Supreme Council and a distorted image of the Head of the Supreme Council, who has done so much to promote parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u152	Instead of Jacob’s consent, Archevite speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u153	Arjewitin, faction of our Ukraine. I would like to address the deputies and all those Ukrainians who care about history, our glorious story of the Cossack era. I am the Secretary of the Council of Ukrainian Cossacks to the President of Ukraine. In the near future, we will be discussing in society the very concept of Ukrainian Cossackhood for the next 10 years, and the main programme, which has almost 100 points to implement this concept. And most importantly, for the first time in our country's history, we're going to be looking at our Cossack Constitution or the Ukrainian Cossacks Act. I'd very much like to support the MPs because the items in this program and the implementation of this program are in almost every district of your city, your center, perhaps even in your village. And I would also like to go to government officials, who, for the first time, are going to have a little bit of money, it's going to be 100,000 dollars, maybe 500,000 dollars, but they've foreseen this small amount for the next year to make society feel that for the first time in history, our nation has funds in the budget to implement the national programme. The concept of developing Ukrainian Cossacks for the next 10 years was considered by the previous government and approved. It's available on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. So I invite everyone to this important issue, because since the time of Philip Orlik of 1710, we have not considered a similar question at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u154	Thank you. Ribuk, followed by Kendzior, instead of Kowal, and Kowal was performing instead of Widow. I explain because I have these statements so I don't have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u155	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Unlike some of my colleagues, my speech will be very peaceful. Because I want to say about the brilliant scientist, the inventor, the man who threatened a weapon that had been used to destroy mankind before, directed for peaceful purposes, for knowledge, for mankind's vast space of space. This is Sergey Pavlovich Králov, our brilliant Ukrainian scientist, inventor, missile-space systems designer, academic, a century from the date of Ukraine's birth in January next year, a few months from now. I would like to remind you that the scientific ideas of the Queen have become widely used in rocket, space technology. You can count his inventions a lot, but there would be no Queen, there would be no Gagarin, there would be no space development, and you wouldn't know the genius of the whole world. We, and what moved me to the parliamentary rostrum, to guide all of us, society, the public, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers to intensify preparations and prepare for the wide celebration of the birthday of the century, Sergey Pavlovich Králov. Because today, although adopted in December last year, the decree, more faithfully, of the Cabinet of Ministers, is being prepared locally. Everything is done by the District Zitomir Council, the District Zitomir Administration, our National Space Agency together, and there the business Zitomir elite is sponsoring, providing charitable funds to repair the Royal Museum, to repair the house where it lived, to spread the exhibits, but this is too little, it's an all-Ukrainian, if not a worldwide holiday. So I'd like to ask, maybe, Alexander Alexanderovich, if this is necessary, maybe to accept the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council, I'm willing to communicate and ask the government to make the funds that the government of Yehanurov still has allocated so that they don't perish there, so that we can be set aside to celebrate the centuries since Sergey Pavlovicov was born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Please prepare a project, we can consider it and make a decision, it's not a problem. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Kendzer, behind him Hara, who passes, if I'm not mistaken, word, I'll say it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u157	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. I'm going to start my short talk, just like my esteemed colleague Ivan Sidorovich Boki, because I wasn't going to sign up for anything. But when, as it were, he heard the talk, and he moved me to go out to that rostrum. Because I felt that this was, in a sense, John Sidorovich's speech, and it touched me because I mentioned the problem. You know, indeed, the assignment, not the assignment, and perhaps you shouldn't think very seriously about it. But when we, my dear colleagues, have a fact that I cannot logically explain, I think that everyone here in this room, along with Alexander Alexandrovich, is unlikely to provide a logical explanation. When it was only during the 15th year of independence of the Ukrainian State that the State archives, which can be freely taken, opened up to review documents relating to the terrible, terrible period of our history, the famine of the 32nd to 33rd. But it is only said that one part of the tragedy of our people in the last century. And why we still don't have free access to all the materials related to the terrible repressions of the 1930s, the '40s, the '50s. And then, clearly, the regime at the time was said to have protected it by ten doors and locks. But at the age of 15 years of independence of the Ukrainian State, I'm asking a rhetorical question: from whom did the Ukrainian independent state protect these materials so that, except for individuals, they would have access to them? And why am I, Ivan Sidorovich, well, naturally I have a warning. When Communists today say there was no famine, there was no repression. It was, it was flourishing, that millions of people were not destroyed, and knowing that the representative of this political power led this unique state of refuge -- the State Archives -- where I have the guarantee that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko will not tell his party member that he needs to quietly carry out, smoke, destroy and so on. Without a document, without fact, it is no doubt difficult to prove anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u158	I didn't intend to speak either, and I'm not going to come in, but I want to say that by analyzing this problem that Jaroslav Mikhajlovich is talking about in the early 1990s, when there was an attempt to do the thing you're talking about, it turns out that we have to protect our people from ourselves. And protect them from them. Because when we pick up these archives, we're going to beat everyone in the world, because the repression was carried out in the vast majority of the reports of the villagers, the neighbors -- that cut was lifted, that cow was not there, and then she wrote that he was speaking out against the state, against the authorities, and so on. And there's so many examples like this that let's just give the experts a better job of doing that. You want to do this, you have the right as an MP and so on. Look at this thing, but we don't have to wake up the beast, we can do a lot of bad things about it. The fact that it was a disgraceful page of our history does not give rise to any doubt. Please, instead of Harry and Gretzak, they gave him John Vasilovich Popescu, they gave him their right to your feet. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u159	Thank you. I wanted to draw attention to the history of two of my MPs. As early as July, I was approached by the Permanent Commission of the Novoselec District Council for Finance Planning, Budget and Management of the Common Property of the Territorial Communities, when considering the Budget Resolution, when considering other legislative acts, when preparing the relevant decisions of the Cabinet, the state administration of Cherniewice and others, to contribute to the allocation of funds from the State budget of 2 million, 2,000, 47 dollars for the Society. ” Buda, which was not spent on construction of underwater gas to the village. And we had to make it up to the State Budget. Unfortunately, this did not happen in that year or in that year. I asked the MPs the right ones and received an answer from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance that in order to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, this question was addressed and the cost of building the underwater gas before. “Green grove”. The Novoselt region will only be foreseen after the adoption of the 2007 State Budget, which provides for a subsidy to address the gasification of the population. But this is a general situation, because the way in which subsidies are used will be further approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of appropriate government administrations. So in order for this to not depend again in the air, I would suggest that, in preparing for the second reading of the State Budget Act 2007, not only the Committee on Budget Affairs, but not only the Ministry of Finance, but also the final administration of the Montenegrin Region and the relevant commissions of the Montenegrin District Council also worked in this direction. And in order for me not to have to come out of this rostrum again, since I am anchored in the Chernobyl area, I also remind myself that we should not forget our debts to other objects. I'll count them today. This applies to the gasification of the village of Mahalanovo Selecki region, this applies to the underwater gases of Molnica-Horevo-Curen in. Districts and Guards. Lower St. Peter’s in the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. In addition, debt for gasification in the region needs to be repaid. I want to point out that these areas are borderline and have a Romanian population. But compared to neighboring Ukrainian - language areas, the process of gasification is lagging behind. So that this process doesn't have political coloring, I'm asking you to pay attention to it, and when you make the right decisions, it's just to take that into account and not to let that happen in previous years. The second question I would like to draw attention to is that as a result of floods on June 4-6, 2006, a number of bridges were destroyed. But with regard to two bridges, the Lower Petrovci of the Watchtower Region and the Stone of the Globotsky region, where there are 15,000. The population that lives in just two of those villages has been cut off from this area and over 100,000. Traveling gravel and land roads over 20 kilometers [20 km] across the border. The bus routes were changed. The villages are divided in half. It was a matter of getting the children to school. As the cold begins, the situation becomes even more difficult. But today in the Chernobyl area, the impact of June 30 – July 2 – was eliminated at the expense of the 6 million Cabinet of Ministers Reserve Fund. 590 thousand. That's right. At the same time, the flood material from June 4 to 6, 2006, for some unknown reasons, we will be looking for who is to blame today, but the question of, for example, the Lower Petrovic Bridge was not even included in the list of objects that need this help. And as a result, there we are, four times I spoke on this subject, and from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I have made appropriate inquiries, appeals to the MPs, restoration of the work is already under way. But there is no need for it. And then again, the question is, where do you get this money to put these jobs out? And once again, the question will be raised, and I ask you to pay attention. And after that. As the figures were reviewed, it was decided not to completely restore that city, but to take and at least a first-stage work. The cost of these works is five million for the village of Lower Petrovci, a 200 - foot - long [90 m] bridge, and the cost of the three million village of Kamyanka, which is 110 meters [110 m] long. Moreover, I wanted to take advantage of one more moment, since one more minute was left. In our hall, people who were deported in their own time are constantly being talked about. They were deported by various means -- national, political, property. We must approach those people who have been illegally repressed equally and all of them, regardless of their motives, who have experienced these reprisals, to rehabilitate everyone. Of course, help is needed for all of us, but we have the impression that all aid is done only in terms of those who are active in the political sphere, for example, in the Crimean region. Today, there are people who are still alive, who have returned and have not received any compensation in their time, and they do not even have the opportunity to go to the buildings their parents built. So I would like to draw attention to the need to help those who are returning from the deportations from Siberia, from Karelia, from other places of return to other regions of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u160	Thank you. Instead of Matvienkov, Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich is speaking. As I understand it, the first speech from the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ternopolishte An integral part of the Ukrainian National Budget 2007 project is the privatisation of dividends and rents for the use of state property, the sale of land under privatization and residual military property. Doing the fairly powerful financial tasks planned in this document for the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Accordingly, privatisation amounts to 10 billion, dividends of 250 million, rents of 290 million, land sales of 560 million, sales of military property of 760 million dollars. Maybe it's in compliance with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other ministries and departments that, along with the fund, participate in the formation and administration of state ownership of certain principles. That is, a comprehensive analysis of the state’s impact on each sector of the national economy with a view to making scientifically sound administrative decisions on their further reform. Don't let it be like that. The experience of “Lugansktéploža” or “Harkovmetrobud” has not been repeated. The other one. Legislative solution to the issue of banning corporate enterprises that are of national importance and privatizing national acquisitions. Third. Developing the concept of strategic development and privatization in the most important sectors of the economy as the only and interrelated governance decisions to optimize the structure of state ownership and the efficiency of its use. Fourth: Identifying strategic directions for reforming the public sector of the economy. Fifth: Introduction to the full scope of the Ukrainian Law on the Taxation of Individuals. Sixth: To improve and expand the system for the operation of a single register of state-owned property objects by filling in its information on municipal property. Seventh: Strengthening control over the use of state property transferred to the Structural Funds of State Holding Companies and other business entities. These and a number of other principles were a corresponding letter to the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine in time for the preparation of the project "Competitive Ukraine" Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. But the authors of this important document did not fully take these proposals into account. In addition to the three draft Ukrainian Law on the State Committee of Ukraine, the State Property Fund is deprived of the status of head of the budget. In this regard, I stress that this does not correspond to the legal status of the State Property Fund. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is responsible for the administration of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. However, according to the Fund’s position, the Ministry of Finance does not have the right to conduct state affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u162	Vasil Stepanovich, don't worry that you didn't read it. We had a conversation about this yesterday, and about this document, I signed a letter to the task force that's working on preparing the budget, taking all these points into account. So it's not going to get lost. Thank you. Garden, please. Follow him, Sidelnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u163	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. I'm going to the miners of Alexandria today. A week ago, under the leadership of the Head of the Semenyuk State Property Fund, with the participation of the heads of the Ministry of Coal Industry, other ministries, the Kirovograd District Council - Bondar Yakov Andryovich, the coal-cut trade unions - Orla, Katseva, Fisuna, the city's deputy head, Alexandri Sadomichenko, held a meeting that gave impetus, practical action, to end the vacchanalism that took place in the coal enterprises of Alexandria. Today, mountain renters are a society with limited responsibility “Explerent” and ZAT “Energogil”, the Ministry of Coal Industry, have brought the carbon cut of Alexandria to the pen. If they had previously mined coal with 4 million tons a year, it is now only 78,000 tons. Immediately, by 6,000 128 units, jobs were reduced. In the case of mining families, some 20,000 Alexandrians have been without a piece of bread for a year. In addition, the tenants owed these miners 22 million dollars of wages. Only the Explorer did not pay for all the budgets of one million 842 thousand dollars, and they are stealing godlessly. They have already taken the five - mile [5 km] railway. Why can't the police see that, the prosecutor? They see and they keep quiet. TEC-3 of October 15 won't burn the village of Dimitrovo because there's no coal or gas. 4,000 people will remain in the cold. Is it possible to keep quiet? No, of course not. In this connection, he is forced to turn from the Supreme Council’s rostrum to the Minister of Coal Industry, Tuluba. Today, the courts have approved the break-up of the “Explerent” and “Energovogilem”. Please speed up the process of creating a new coal company that will take away property and give people both coal and jobs. I call on First Vice-Prime Minister Azarov to determine the volume and sources of funding so as not to allow in the village of Dimitrovo Alchevska-2. TEC-3 of October 15 won't work, then the railway will stop, because people will cover the road. I address all other institutions and interested ministries. Dear Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, you are now in favour of social justice. You were in Alexandria, looking into the miners' eyes, promising and forgetting them. Now it is your duty to influence your partner from BUTU Zhevago so that his structures can be accounted for with immediate debts, without a burden, the state’s property has been transferred to the state. In the tragedy of the Alexandrians, you, too, have an extremely moral attitude as Head of the BUTU. Socialists demand to protect miners and the entire coal industry and industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u164	Thank you. Before John Ivanovich Sidelnik spoke, I would like to say that he was from the Travelling region of guerrilla glory, and today he is the Day of guerrilla glory. Let us welcome all the guerrillas, the underlings, the participants in the fight against fascism, their loved ones, the children of war with this festival, we wish that they would hold on as long as they can hold on to being convinced that their victory was not a vain cause, that it was a holiday for all of us, for all of us. In any case, Parliament, expressing the will of the people, also joins the position. Welcome to the festival!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u165	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! To your attention, a sad message from the Suma region, from the homeland of our President Victor Yushchenk. I will read a letter addressed to Yushchenka addressed to Moroz Alexander Alexandrovitch to the Supreme Council and Prime Minister Yanukovic: “Dear seniors! As members of the Somali City Council, we are aware of the situation in Ukraine in connection with the increase in the price of gas. The Somali City Council of June 14th, I stress, this year has adopted a call to the President and the Ukrainian National Deputies on housing and utility tariffs. This decision was sent to the Secretary of the President of Ukraine and to the Supreme Council. Sadly, no answer has been received today. The executive committee of the Soviet City Council was forced to agree on the heat tariffs, which had increased almost threefold. According to previous calculations, more than 30% of the families in the bag will not be able to pay for housing services at the same time and in full. The current system of housing and utility subsidies is bureaucratic and does not take into account the social situation of most families. The established percentage of total income per family, above which a subsidy of 20 percent is allocated, is too high. [[This is tax-free.]] Today, the country’s leadership has not been determined by how a newly created government will address the problem of poverty. The Somali City Council’s MP is requesting and requesting immediate adoption by the country’s management of the next issue of action. By the end of this year, tariffs for public and budgetary services are proposed to be calculated on the basis of the price of gas produced in Ukraine. Raise to a socially sound level the minimum wage per pension and review the subsistence minimum. And I'll tell you what to do. State funding for the implementation of the programme. In the last five years, no money was received at all for these purposes. Well, there's only a second left. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, well, we'll come to the region, we'll go to the area. What are we going to say? Even if the pay for utilities is reduced to a penny? No, of course not. People will ask. We haven't decided yet. That's why the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u166	The commission's working, the commission's working on gas. And here's a report in my hands from the previous temporary special committee that's studying this issue. I think we'll define that next sessional week. And we need to set up the commissions that we're talking about right now. I created, signed a working group at the suggestion, a working group at the initiative of the initiators. But somehow, I don't see any initiative on their part. So this needs to be resolved more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u167	You're on your own. Prokopovich has the word. There will be performances of Miroshnichenko instead of Komara. And to John Ivanovich I explain, the word is not so. You took advantage of it. Your right has been exercised. So I would be happy to listen to Olga Bodnar, but she has no right to speak because she did not sign up at the right time. That's what I understand. There's no Prokopovich. So please, instead of Komara, Miroshnichenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to comment on the events that unfolded today in the session hall, especially during the consideration of the report of the special commission of inquiry, which was created on the issue of the bribery of national deputies. Unfortunately, I didn't have time to speak at the time, but I would still like to take my position and draw your attention to such a thing as responsibility. We actually heard a report from a commission that, in my opinion, was trying to investigate the existence or absence of the facts of the bribes themselves and listened carefully to the comments of the chief prosecutor himself and his colleagues who supported those accusations. What would you like to pay attention to? Really, it's a responsibility. Dear colleagues, the fact is that not only do we communicate with each other, but we are being listened to by millions of our fellow citizens, we are being watched and listened by representatives of other states, embassies, and some broadcasts are being broadcast even to other continents. I'll tell you this, and I have no doubt that all the factions and every individual MP came here with one goal: to improve the standard of living of our citizens. And tell me, please, if we're going to charge each other with such statements, undermine trust in the leading political forces, and it's a party of regions that I represent, and that's interested in making all those accusations that are coming to her address, and by the way, not the first year have been thoroughly investigated and presented in legal order or before the court, or to the public. See, the facts are not confirmed. There is no desire for the person who accused of cooperating with the commission to cooperate with the courts. But at the same time, such information comes to the citizens. Please tell me, will they trust the decisions we make? Will they trust the authority itself as such? And will we be able to cooperate with other states if our legitimacy is undermined? So let us produce a new culture of our political discussion, and a new culture of the work of our legislative body. We have something to talk about, we have, in fact, political reform, and the definition of roles and opposition. And there's something to debate, let's make alternative courses. Let's compare the ways of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u169	But don't argue for such a reason, said Miroshnichenko already outside the microphone, please, Karpuk is speaking from "Our Ukraine," behind him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u170	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you with the question that health care in Ukraine today and among the members of the Supreme Council is secondary. Because that's what the committee thought, and it's made the MPs that this committee isn't important. And so in our committee there are only eight members of the four doctors, of course, that the big questions that are in health care we can't rely on the work of all the deputies. And such an example is the work of both the budget and the meager cost of health care. Over the past 15 years alone, there have been 3.3 percent of gross domestic product for health care. The following year, 3.4 percent is predicted. But you realize that a slight increase in wages and an increase in the cost of energy supplies are crippling these costs and, therefore, WHO thinks that 5 percent of the gross domestic product that goes for health care is less. Then health care becomes ineffective. And that meager increase in wages is an extremely depressing moment for all health workers. In July of this year, health - care workers paid only 692 bracelets to 888 teachers and 1,270 to the industry. Nearly twice as much as required by article 77 of the Law on the Basis, Health Law. The decline is also expected to result in the help given to health - care workers in rural areas. No matter how much we say that we're spending on rural medicine, but when the 2007 budget foresees a reduction in aid, we can't keep up with any improvement. The mortality rate of the population is increasing considerably. You know, in recent years, the population in Ukraine has dropped from 52.1 million to 46.9 million. But despite the significant increase in mortality from cardiovascular diseases, which is 65 percent of all mortality, the Supreme Council is transferring parliamentary hearings to the government committee. We have the most important issues other than education, for the WTO, for others, but the mortality of the population is of course not important to us. That's why I'm addressing you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The Supreme Council and all the deputies that this issue should become a major issue for us in the work of this office of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-22-m0.u171	Thank you for the offer. In fact, through the chairman of the committee or on your own at the Conciliation Council, you can make an offer to listen to health issues and, in particular, to take steps to reduce risks to life and raise the average age in Ukraine. We can look at it in the session room. But it seems to me that this is why we asked questions on the Conciliation Council because it should be a professional consideration. It must be involved and MPs who have a direct bearing on the field, and invited representatives of other committees that will provide the budget, and not only government representatives, and so on. Take a deep look at this question. If there's a need to take him back to the session room, please. But it would have been better if the committee hadn't discussed the issue as much as it had made specific proposals of a legislative nature that guaranteed the solutions to those issues that you are now absolutely convincing and correct in speaking about. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given a draft agenda, a schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council and a list of issues that we're going to consider on October 3, 6, 10 and October 17-20. I would ask you to prepare seriously for them, because, you see, the schedule will be tense. And with that in mind, we're going to finish our work on the draft budget for the first reading. So it's going to be a hard job for all committees and for every deputy. In the meantime, I declare the meeting closed. And what happens is that the next plenary meeting is going to be at 3 in the morning at 10 in the morning. Good for you.
