ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u1	Good morning to all your colleagues! [[Applause.]] Good morning to the coworkers, of course! [[Deputy Chairman Veselin Mareshki offers flowers to President Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Thank you for the lovely flowers and congratulations! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me before we begin today's regular sitting to make a short detour. According to a widespread anecdote on this day, on March 8, 161 years ago, workers from a tailor factory in New York went out to protest to defend their right to wear pants in the workplace. However, the first international protest in favour of women's rights to vote on equal terms with men was held 57 years later in several European cities on 8 March 1914. 1917. On 8 March, Russia's women gathered in St. Petersburg to demonstrate bread and peace, to call for an end to kingdomism and democracy. In 1977, the UN General Assembly declared March 8th an official Women's Day. It's easy for us today to say that every day should be Women's Day. This should not prevent us from admitting that many of women's rights have been hardly won over the years and far from anywhere, even today. Therefore, I would like to remind you that no right has been given forever and that we must always stand up for what we have achieved every day. Some of you fellow Members are celebrating this day, some of you are not. However, I would like to congratulate all the ladies on March 8th. Be healthy, tender, beautiful, inspired and wonderful! Be yourself! Many of you will celebrate it later, but let us not forget that the holiday is starting from our desire to work alongside men. Therefore, let us celebrate the celebration of the successful woman in plenary. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody! [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. Adopted in first vote on 15 February 2018. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. Please, voting mode. They voted 179 MPs: 133, against 2, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. Message. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about: "Bruten domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2017 and in 2017. (preliminary data) The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to next item on the agenda. She's the first one today: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENT FOR THE PROCEEDING OF CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECOGNITION OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED PROCEEDANCES. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with the rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 2 February 2018. I will now read to you the Rules for the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. The candidates admitted may attend the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report on the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order, as defined in the list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names for two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate in the order set out in the list of candidates. 6. A candidate who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, the candidate has been selected for the highest number of votes. 7. Where one of the candidates does not receive the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the vote shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 2 February 2018 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics to brief us on the report. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u2	Mr. Plamen Georgiev and Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, I would like to make a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the two candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u3	Please vote on the admission procedure made. Vote 164 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u4	♪ I can't believe on the hearing of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property At an open meeting held on 6 March 2018 and broadcast in real time on the Internet, through the website of the National Assembly, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Anti-Corruption Conflict and Parliamentary Ethics Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure on the Conditions and Procedures for Offering Candidates for President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Commission for Counter-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 2 February 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. The President of the Commission Boris Yachev announced that two proposals were received from MPs for the Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: the candidacy of Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov and Nikolay Ivanov Nikolov. Proposals for candidates together with all documents are published on the specialized website of the National Assembly and are made public. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure of the candidates, a check was carried out under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and on the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. No documents establishing belonging to the bodies referred to in Article were found for either applicant. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. All the candidates required under Section I, i.e. are submitted to the proposals of the candidates. 2 et c. 3 of the Rules of Procedure documents........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, written concepts of strategic management, if selected, Declarations of incompatibility according to the template of Annex No 3 and Declarations of Property and Interests on a template established by the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, Annex No 4 of the Rules of Procedure, as applicants meet all requirements for taking up the post. The hearing was held in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Nikolay Nikolov's application was presented by MP Krum Zarkov. He argued that, in view of the wide powers of the new authority, its President should have proved by his previous activities that he was not subject to influence and that his actions were governed solely by the law. Nikolay Nikolov is a doctor of law and his dissertation is devoted precisely to the establishment of property acquired from criminal activity. For the past nearly 15 years he has worked in the field of matter, subject to the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. His career has evolved consistently and logically. He was a member of the Commission for the establishment of assets acquired from criminal activities and a member and a temporary President of the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest. His moral qualities have never been questioned. Despite his high positions, his name has never been involved in scandals and doubts of any nature. In view of this, MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria stand behind Dr. Nikolay Nikolov's candidacy for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property with the conviction that the newly established state body will be led by a professional led solely by the spirit and letter of the law. After the presentation of his candidacy Nikolay Nikolov exposed his concept of work if he was elected President. He pointed out that the main motive to run for the post of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property is his confidence that he has professional and management experience, which will ensure the functioning of the Commission as a professional and independent administrative body in the field of the fight against corruption and organised crime. He also noted that he had knowledge and experience of how the administration operates, as well as practical experience of leadership positions in the field of civil confiscation and conflict of interest, backed by numerous academic developments in both materials. In his exhibition Mr. Nikolov made a thorough analysis of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, paying particular attention to the new anti-corruption mechanisms. The new law significantly facilitates enforcement by combining declarations of private interest and property, unification and extension of time limits for the submission of different declarations. The section on prevention of corruption provides new forms such as: coordination of bills, organization of trainings, presentation of opinions and others. As main priorities for his work, he highlighted the thorough and quality handling of the files in the five main areas of the Commission's activities: prevention of corruption; interaction and cooperation with other state authorities; professional training; independence of the body and equality before the law. Regarding the prevention of corruption Mr. Nikolov paid attention to the problem of public procurement, proposing that they go through special software for connected persons. In conclusion, prevention brings to the fore, but adds that this circumstance does not affect the determination of action to implement sanctions measures under the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property (PBCONPI), if there are grounds for this. In support of Nikolay Nikolov's candidacy, opinions have been received from the following NGOs: Association of Bulgarian Cities and Regions, Institute for Modern Policy, North-Western Institute of Youth Policies and Center of Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) in Razgrad. Plamen Georgiev's candidacy was presented by the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Danail Kirilov. Krasimir Velchev noted that the proposed candidate is a well-prepared lawyer who knows Bulgarian and European law in depth and has studied at the Academy of the FBI for Combating Corruption in the public sphere, as well as a specialized course for combating organised crime in the United States. He has proved his high professional and moral qualities in his previous professional experience as an investigator in the Sofia Investigation Service, a prosecutor in the Sofia District and the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, a Deputy Administrative Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Deputy Minister of Justice and from 2013 until now a Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The professionalism and high moral qualities, such as objectivity, openness, honesty, accountability, selflessness and good faith, are serious arguments for Mr. Plamen Georgiev to be proposed for the taking of the senior public office. Danail Kirilov added that Plamen Georgiev actively participated in his capacity as President of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property with quality ideas and proposals in the legal process during the mandates of the 43rd and 44th National Assembly. Plamen Georgiev's professional and moral qualities are the basis for his candidacy to be promoted by the parliamentary groups of GERB and "United patriots" with the belief that he will justify his vote of confidence. After the presentation of his candidacy Mr. Plamen Georgiev presented his concept of work if he was elected President. In the introduction of his presentation Mr. Georgiev pointed out that he accepted the promotion of his candidacy not only as a challenge, but also as a cause and emphasized that he relies on teamwork and bets on continuity and expertise. In its concept, he noted that the new law gives clear regulatory mechanisms to counter corruption by introducing the principles of legality, independence, impartiality, transparency and continuity in the fight against corruption. He outlined his priorities for the development of the Commission, which are: prevention of corruption; validation of the declarations; upgrade of the existing electronic system; preparation of rules for the integrity of employees; development of a system for accidental distribution of case files; strengthening the control of procedural representation as an important step in increasing efficiency; international cooperation; establishment of effective internal rules for the exchange of information between different Commission departments and others. Mr. Georgiev also paid attention to the creation of a universal mechanism for increasing the expertise capacity, providing for periodic attestation tests, integrity checks and checks for the use of alcohol, narcotics and others of the employees. In this way, a clear and full profile of established criteria for public office holders to meet will be established. Particular attention is paid to the prevention of early childhood corruption, providing for a training plan for the acquisition of anti-corruption culture. In this regard, he noted that cooperation agreements have already been concluded to build a comprehensive model of anti-corruption culture with the University of National and World Economy and the American Embassy. He also outlined his idea of setting up an anti-corruption centre in the Balkans, with the focus aimed at strengthening our cooperation with the Balkan countries. In conclusion, Mr. Georgiev pointed out that in addition to the concept, there are many other activities that will arise during the Commission's work. In support of Mr. Plamen Georgiev's candidacy were received opinions from the following institutions and NGOs: Sofia University "Kliment Ohridski", Faculty of Law of the University of Transport. St. Cyril and Methodius, Center for the Prevention and Counteraction of Money Insurance, Club "Journalists Against Corruption", New Bulgarian University and "Risk Monitor" Foundation. After the presentation of the concepts to the candidates, a number of questions were asked by the members of the Commission, including those previously received by the Parliamentary Commission of the Anticorruption Fund Foundation and the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives. The following MPs took part in the discussion: Boris Yachev, Ivan Valkov, Spas Gurnevski, Krasimir Velchev, Kristina Sidorova, Milko Nedyalkov, Simeon Simeonov, Ihsan Hakke, Simeon Naydenov and Slavi Netzov. The candidates gave in-depth and comprehensive answers to the questions raised and thus further developed their views on the work of the new body and defended their professional qualities and intentions. After the hearing was concluded, the President of the Commission Boris Yachev announced that a report from the hearing will be submitted, to which a list of candidates who participated in the hearing will be attached, arranged in alphabetical order by the names of the candidates for Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, as well as a draft decision for the selection of each candidate who participated in the hearing for President of the Commission. I present to your attention: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Nikolay Ivanov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Another draft decision, honourable Members: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. I give the floor to the importers to submit their proposals in alphabetical order. For Mr. Nikolov, please come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Happy March 8th! Honourable Members of Parliament, honourable candidates for chairman of the newly created committee! The law published in January requires candidates for this post not only formal qualities that traditionally fit into such activities, but also broad theoretical and practical training to allow them to juggle with the dozens of procedures that we have put into it. The candidate we represent from the BSP for Bulgaria is certainly possessing these qualities. Dr. Nikolay Nikolov is a recognized scientist in this particular matter. In fact, he is the author of the main books and monographs concerning two key moments the seizure of property acquired from illegal activity and the establishment of a conflict of interest. Practically the last 15 years he has worked in such institutions and in this matter. He is one of the first creators of the Commission for the withdrawal of property, as he is one of the people who has created the practice that the Commission has enjoyed to this day. Furthermore, in 2011, he passed as a member of the Commission for the establishment and prevention of conflict of interest where, following the grand scandals that shook the Commission, he took on the difficult task of fulfilling the responsibility of the chairman of that committee. In general, then the scandals also stop this committee, if it has done something so far, it has done so precisely in this period. His professional expertise is completely indisputable. He's done more than 40 publications... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, please allow me another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u7	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a kind of test, apart from the personalities of our candidates, of how much this law will work at all. When we argued here whether the place of election of President is exactly the National Assembly, you made three arguments. You said, "This is where it's supposed to be, because there's going to be competition here." I wonder what kind of competition there will be if the winner turns out to be the one known a year and a half ago?! You said, "The opposition will be able to say its word." We present you with a candidate worthy of your support. I am curious whether there will be at least one, two, five of the ruling majority to support the candidate, not proposed by the ruling party?! Finally, you said: "Independence. " Ladies and gentlemen, independence is seen in the CV of these candidates and it is obvious that one of them was even a member of a government of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I gave you one minute more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u10	From this point of view here today it will become clear whether there is a majority in this National Assembly that can judge objectively the candidates given. I apologize, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u11	Thank you. I hope you appreciate my tolerance. For the second candidate Mr. Plamen Georgiev. Mr. Velchev, please come in and introduce the second candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Ladies, happy holiday! It really is a pleasure to introduce our candidate. There was something said here................................................................................................ I've known Plamen Dimitrov since his name came up as an offer. I'm saying that. I didn't know him, and I don't know anyone in these circles. Colleagues, my creed has always been as follows: education is a necessary condition, but, as said in mathematics, insufficient. For me, it's always been professional experience. I am impressed precisely by the professional experience and the realization of Mr. Plamen Dimitrov. So I'm going to start with his biography, briefly: He started in 2001 as a candidate for trial at the Sofia City Court. After that, 2002 - 2005 "Sofia Investigation Service, Investigator. 2005? 2006? Sofia District Attorney's Office, Prosecutor's Office. 2006 "2009' Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, Prosecutor's Office. 2009 "2011" Prosecutor, investigation of corruption crimes, head of a team of 10 prosecutors, investigators, DANS agents. 2011 Deputy Administrative Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office. 2011 - 2011 Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Justice. 2013 I'm a prosecutor at the Special Prosecutor's Office. From 2013 until now, the President of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In the reasons I will not read all because there will be no time left, the leaders of this nomination, as I pointed out: the professional experience and the authority with which Mr. Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov enjoys among his former and present colleagues, as well as the proven desire to work against organized crime, the manifestations of corruption behavior, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and the promotion of the country as a modern European rule of law. For excellent work as a magistrate he was promoted by the Supreme Judicial Council in the rank of Prosecutor in the Appeals Prosecution. An expression of professional recognition is awarded to him by the prestigious award of Giovanni Falcone for high professionalism and contribution to the fight against crime. Mr. Plamen Dimitrov has completed training at the Academy of the FBI in the fight against corruption in the public sphere, as well as a specialized course for the fight against organised crime. Professionalism and high moral qualities such as objectivity, openness, honesty, accountability, selflessness and good faith are corrective for the behaviour of senior European officials who cannot be taken into account by European partners. Personally... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just two sentences. As you have allowed your colleague... Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u13	Of course, Mr. Velchev, I gave you a minute more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u14	In personal terms, he has basic Bulgarian virtues such as honesty, honesty and hard work. Those facts give us reason to believe that the proposed application fully meets the legal requirements. The undisputed high professional and moral qualities he holds are a serious argument for Mr. Plamen Georgiev to be proposed for the taking of a senior public office. Thank you for your attention, colleagues, and excuse the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. It's okay, I gave both parliamentary groups a little more time to present the candidates. We are moving on to debates, fellow Members. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u16	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable candidates for the post of President of the new Anti-Corruption Commission! Mr. Velchev presented to us the facts and data of the biography of one of the candidates Mr. Plamen Georgiev, only that he missed some interesting facts from his biography. And since today we have the important choice to choose the most worthy for this post, the person to guarantee the fight against corruption, I will allow you to know some of the facts so that we can make a really informed and good choice. Let's start by saying that as part of the specialized team for corruption crimes among the cases Mr. Plamen Georgiev is working on are these: for the Sofia property, which ended with an acquittal; against Mayor Hasan Aziz, returned from the court for questioning; let's not forget the symbolic and indicative case for the cabinet Borisov 1, namely the so-known scandal - Hello, Vanjo, who was the emblem of your government then, also ended with an acquittal. [[Noise and lines.]] It is interesting that shortly after that Mr. Plamen Georgiev's career began to develop staggeringly. He became Deputy Minister, representative of one of the parties that are ruling today. What independence are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen ruling? [[Noise and lines.]] Will this person, who was part of your cabinet, tomorrow be an objective chairman of the anti-corruption body, and would he investigate you in the way he should investigate you? Interesting, if the case for six apartments of a parliamentary group chair is today, how would it end? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So, interesting data is available in Mr. Georgiev's biography. Surely they are not talking about independence, and what is needed today. This committee needs to be independent in order to have a real fight against corruption. So I think we should think about it, read the biography a little bit more and see that independence is far from Plamen Georgiev's candidacy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Any lines to the statement? [[National Representative Stanislav Stanilov wants the floor.]] Let's finish the line procedure... Okay, here's a sentence. Prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u18	Madam President, I ask you, when people come to the stands who read in such a way that nothing is understood, to make a note to them... [[Noise and lines.]] Tell them to read slower and more readable! I, my colleagues, didn't understand anything from what the lady said! Honestly! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u19	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. I'll take a note from your statement. A line, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking a line to say this. It is not worthy to think that if you criticize one candidate, you increase the qualities of your own candidate! [[Radio.]] In the entire debate so far, we have in no way allowed ourselves to criticize your candidate. We were objective. We also assessed his qualities objectively and equally with the qualities of our candidate. I strongly object to being vexed by the parliamentary tribune of a man of suggestion, of fiction and of his honor and dignity. Our candidate is worthy! He worked professionally, worked as a prosecutor at the Special Prosecutor's Office and administrative director. He worked as head of ten DANS prosecutors and agents on multiple crimes investigations, but we never told you which crimes, and we could tell you during which period, and what. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Here you go, Mrs. Sidorova. [[(Replying, shouting:) Slowly! Slowly!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u22	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Kirilov, these are data and facts from the biography of the candidate Plamen Georgiev. It's not fiction... [[GERB reply: "Interpret! "]] There's no interpretation! I read them the way they're written in the biography. I'm very sorry if these are interpretations to you, but these are facts. To make an informed choice, you need to know. Bulgarian citizens need to know what kind of person we choose today because the choice is foreknown and everything we do here is not worthy of the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Kutev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Honestly, I wasn't going to say anything, but... [[(Noise and lines:) The map! Put your card on!]] I put my card on! Oh, it's Cornelia Ninova's, I'm sorry... [[Radio, laughter, lines.]] Happy March 8th, said someone in the hall. Congratulations! That, by the way, was a reminder that I should start by congratulating the ladies. I wasn't going to speak, frankly, but the lines to my colleague Sidorova challenged me. Look, guys! I don't know Plamen Georgiev personally. I've read a lot about this choice, so I can't, and I wouldn't allow myself to talk about his personality. That's not the point. If this question is raised here about what the cases he's been involved in or what he's done so far, it's not because someone is against this person, at least I can't be, because I have no reason to be. However, the question of your choice of Plamen Georgiev proves exactly where we all the time during the drafting of the Law tried to convince you, namely, that when Parliament and when this majority elect the head of this body, that is, chooses the person who will lead the fight against corruption, you always risk getting into a situation where you choose a person who is obedient and who in one way or another is connected to you and ensures your comfort. Unfortunately, this choice, I say again "nothing against the personality of the person I do not know, but the biography of this person clearly proves that we were right in all our doubts when we argued about how the Law would be done. The biography of this person shows unambiguously that I cannot imagine after the case of Vanyo Tanov and so on, he must have many other cases which he has examined perfectly, and I do not dispute them, but after this case further, I do not see how you will ensure that he conducts the cases against you as he should. His biography clearly shows that it depends on your decisions, depends on Mr. Borisov's calls, certainly depends on Mr. Tsvetanov, who is probably mentioned. Well, then how will she fight corruption like she's fighting corruption is here! I'm not saying it's you. I'm saying that those who can practice corruption are lawmakers and the government. You're hiring him. How's he gonna follow you? Well, that's not gonna happen! That's it, and it's not about the gentleman himself. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I'm a little embarrassed by what I hear. First of all, I would like to point out that Mr. Velchev - Krasimir Velchev - three times mentioned the name Plamen Dimitrov. I could thus address Mr. Velchev with Mr. Lubomirov, as he is Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev. However, this shows that you do not know your own candidate well. I'd like you to say here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u27	Mr. Kutev must be your line, Mr. Velkov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u28	Yes, Mr. Kutev's is the line. I'd love to, but I couldn't do it to Mr. Kutev like that because he had another card with another name, and he had another name... [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u29	But he changed it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u30	After all, do we know, Madam President, who do we choose, Plamen Dimitrov or Plamen Georgiev? And from everything we've heard so far, I have this question from Roman times: "Who will protect us from the guards?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. The candidate is Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov. Second line? We don't have a second line. You won't use the hole, Mr. Kutev. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! That proves what I said. I said, "I've known this man since he's been our candidate." And I'm impressed with his autobiography. And when I read his autobiography, this is what it says: Mr. Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov. Doubts should at least be dropped and that he was in government, I would like to point out here to all of you: yes, the ministers are political persons, but the deputy ministers are the experts in the government and are selected by the ministers themselves. Every minister is as good as the experts he's chosen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, happy holiday to all the ladies! I take occasion from Mr. Velchev's statement. Mr. Velchev, yes, the education of the candidates is extremely important. Their professional experience is also very important. However, I would add the third, which is no less important, and these are the moral qualities of each candidate, because the Bulgarian people over the years have seen many educated and experienced professionals, thieves, I would say, in various areas that have ruined our country. In this regard, I, having listened to the biographies, are truly impressive about the education, professional qualities and professional experience of the two candidates. All we have left to do is to express the hope that both candidates have equally high moral qualities, because we personally do not know them. We really express the hope of the entire Bulgarian people that it is. We wish them success, and whoever wins, I hope that with his education, with his professional experience and with the morals he has, indeed, to make the subject that is the most vicious in society, the subject that destroys and destroys our people, our country, will be protected and the guilty will receive their punishment. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any lines to Mr. Mareshki's statement? I don't see any lines. Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u36	Dear Madam President, happy holiday! Happy Thanksgiving to all the ladies! Dear fellow candidates, I take this opportunity before the vote itself again to call on you: colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the ruling majority, you will now have the opportunity to prove that you really want to fight the biggest scourge for the Bulgarian society, streetd by all the researches of corruption. Not once have I called and called on you, and now the opposition proposal, the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria, in the face of Nikolai Nikolov, is sufficiently argued and undeniable in moral terms and as professional growth, looking at the CV. It is with such a professional that the authority, the so-called body of you, and all Bulgarian citizens, will actually face corruption not only on the higher levels of power, but also on all levels. This is a chance for real democracy when the executive power, the majority, which supports it, has given it the opportunity to have a corrective, but this is real democracy. It is not democracy, as you understand it only with the right to vote. This is democracy, which enables institutions to work according to written rules, according to the laws that are voted on. Now it will show, honourable Members of the majority, whether it is not true for you the maximum one note is one vote and not one person is one vote. In real democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it is the work of the institutions that is important, and this is the institution that is called upon to combat the handicaps of our society and corruption not only during elections, but also the one that generates the resource used during elections. Mr. Boyko Borisov has three tasks. One task is to master the media through which society is manipulated. The second task is the corporations, the big ones, the monopolies. And the third task is the work of the institutions. And now you will prove that you have not fulfilled your third task. Think about it. You have a chance to prove that you stand for real democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u38	Dear Madam President, colleagues, honourable candidates! We are faced with a very important choice, as the President of the Commission, in accordance with the Law that we have adopted, has a key role to play in what will be the policy and activity of the entire body with the proposals he will make for a team, with the internal acts that he will adopt for the work of the Commission. For me, for us, I suppose and for the citizens, one thing has become clear: despite the undoubtedly professional biography of the candidate of the ruling Mr. Dimitrov, the same is a political person. There is no way that a person who was Deputy Minister, a person who was appointed by the Prime Minister of the country as Chairman of the Authority, for whom now the National Assembly, supposedly as an independent body will reaffirm it again, is proposed for us to see him as only a professional. It certainly is, but political commitment to biography creates distrust in me and in people. Against this background, candidate Nikolov, who we offer you, a doctor of law, young, undoubtedly put his professional path and life in the path of law, dedicated to the specific rules that govern this particular area, a man with books in this area, a man who worked for years in this area, but politically unrelated. Corruption, with this I started with this I will complete, and the measures that we accept for the solution of this issue, predestined the faith of the people who elected us as their representatives, if we elect the President of the Commission, if we elect Commissioners, if we allow people to see that this committee actually does what they expect of politically unrelated individuals, this will increase confidence entirely in the National Assembly institution. This will strengthen democratic principles and not put people on the street. My personal opinion is that we should choose a politically single candidate for whom biography does not create prerequisites even for questions whether he served someone, whether he terminated cases, because these questions, you said, Mr. Kirilov, objective data, the objective data are in the case files. In the hearts of people and in their heads is what they believe. Do they believe cases have been dismissed? We shouldn't choose a candidate for whom there's even doubt, I'm not saying he did. Therefore, I will support our candidate and I believe that he is the better choice for the President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. First line, Mr. Kirilov, second line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable candidates! Dear colleague Dr. Milkov, I didn't really want you to be the one to do lines of this nature. This shows how ugly a debate is, by treating it that way. First of all, I would like to clarify this: the truth, Mrs. Ninova, is always coming out. I specify the following: Mr. Plamen Georgiev was Deputy Minister between December 2011 and January 2013, when Mrs. Diana Kovacheva was Minister of Justice. Diana Kovacheva was designated, was elected in the government Borisov 1 as Minister of Justice as a representative of civil society, as an active actor of civil society, as an authority that was respected by Brussels. With regard to the election of the Deputy Minister, I will immediately respond to Mr. Zarkov's express reply to his deputy ministers and make a team. Always, the portfolio, because look at the portfolio "Execution of Punishments" and now, the Deputy Minister is a former prosecutor. It's tradition, look back in time, how many of the deputy ministers in this portfolio are former prosecutors, or come out of the prosecution, occupy this activity and come back. I don't want to say anything bad about your candidate, but remember, he was chosen from President Parvanov's quota. This does not mean that we should wave a political relationship and political dependence on this person. Like you, I think of him as a doctor of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My line, Dr. Milkov, to you is this: why do you always measure from the BSP with double archin? The point is, the guy's a professional and he's doing his job. Why do we forget, for example, how Parliament chose Maya Manolova as Ombudsman? She wasn't politically involved, maybe, or was she one of BSP's most active people? The whole parliament, of all parliamentary groups, including ours, then voted for it because it is a professional. And she's doing her job perfectly. Why are you drawing conclusions from who was Deputy Minister, who wasn't Deputy Minister? The question is that the person should do his job as the Ombudsman does. We are not ashamed that we supported her, on the contrary, so do not jump to such hasty conclusions. Let's have a chance for this candidate who gets elected to start doing his job. If it is seen, then, that there are such political nuances, that there are things to be done that are hidden, then criticize and not in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there gonna be a third line? We don't have a third line. Mr. Milkov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u44	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues Angelov and Kirilov, I will answer you in general because in their basic lines to me were of one nature. I don't have a double arsin. The man is chosen for the job he has to do. You're making an analogy with Mrs. Maya Manolova's professionalism. Mrs. Maya Manolova is an ombudsman representative of citizens' problems. We are choosing a professional, I said both, and I accept it, which, however, must fight political corruption with political corruption, which is the cruelest form of corruption that can exist, which dissolves as an effervescent tablet our society, so there is no double archin. We measure at the moment whether the particular person is suitable for the particular job. And for the word 'chance', thank you, so was the Law 'to give him a chance. We shouldn't give the gentlemen a chance to work. We need to be sure how their faces, their candidacy, their choices will be accepted by society. Will political confidence increase, or will it decrease, and where will it further decline? So it shouldn't be about chance at all. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! I just want to ask, and I'm sure there are people in this room who can answer my question. Was Nikolai Ivanov Nikolov a municipal councillor from BSP in the municipality of Lovech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any lines to the statement? Line, Mr. Popov come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u48	My fellow Member, I hope you know very well the laws under which our society is governed. You are still a Member of the National Assembly, but as a municipal councillor they choose the people, and as a Deputy Minister they appoint the Prime Minister. There's a huge difference. [[Noise and lines.]] One is the choice of people, the other is a political appointment, which is part of the political cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line, come in. [[The National Representative Milko Nedyalkov greets the President with the celebration.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u50	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, happy holiday, honourable colleagues! One line, Mr. Mihovski, to your statement, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov was not only a municipal councillor from BSP, but Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, while he was a municipal councillor, and I was the chairman of the Municipal Council, we created... [[Reply from the O.P.: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u52	...well, we've created things...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u53	Mr. Nedyalkov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u54	...that were the first things in Bulgaria "The Ordinance for neighborhoods and public councils." [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u55	Colleagues, please calm down and be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u56	For the first time in the regulations of a municipal council was provided for the funds received from privatisation in the villages to be earmarked for the development of villages. This thing then, the Law predicted it after Lovech, but it was a development that we did together with Mr. Nikolai Nikolov, so it is not a shame, on the contrary, it is a positive thing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u57	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Third line, Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! My line is related to the municipal councils. He may have been a municipal councillor, but he hasn't seen the case for Misho Beer. There's a difference between the two. [[Applause.]] Without being Mr. Nikolov's lawyer, I will get into the conversation with the fact that as far as I can remember in his biography is written Punishment and fine against Sergey Stanishev, when Sergei Stanishev was Chairman of the Party, and I think there is one on Valeri Zablyanov as well. [[Applause.]] But that's not the point, that's not why I took the floor for a line. My line is aimed at what I was just talking about. The problem is not whether one has more political dependence than the other. The problem is the Law that we adopted because this law implies a person with political dependence and that is exactly what you are doing right now. So whether he was a city councilman or not, it's not important. What is important is the person you propose and will choose in a moment, is he able to do the real fight against corruption even when it is in your ranks?! I don't suppose you're more corrupt than others, I guess in government is corruption. Probably not in the people, would it be in the government?! In other words, he should be able to fight corruption with you and this is not Mr. Georgiev's problem, it is a problem of the Law you have adopted and the application you are proposing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Will there be a hole, Mr. Mihowski? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! I understand there's nothing disturbing about him being a city councilman from a political power. I just couldn't figure it out if it wasn't disturbing, so why wasn't this thing on his resume?! That's all I couldn't figure out. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihowski. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u62	Liar! He's got it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u63	Take it easy, Mr. Nedyalkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u64	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my opinion, the debate should concentrate on what the two candidates have achieved so far, how they would implement the fight against corruption. I have one worry because outside the clamp and in the clamp both candidates have enough qualities, have professional biographies that are really serious. I am concerned only with the circumstances, not only because of the fact that Mr. Kutev pointed out that one candidate [[Noise and lines.]] There is one thing that concerns me about the activities of the current CONPI. These are the benefits that the CONPI has so far incarcerated from the cases leading to the confiscation of illegally acquired property. These are benefits whose figure perhaps no one in this room, except Mr. Plamen Georgiev, can say. But they're still a secret. [[Noise and lines.]] It worries me in the implementation of the new law, of this law, which is acting now and has already been amended, what value, what price will the fight against corruption have?! Is one day the fight against corruption worth more than the damage of corruption itself?! Why? Because fighting corruption is very important. It is a problem, as you like to say, those who rule the world, but still the fight against corruption must also be fought honorably by the laws that we adopt. They must be strong laws that do not change a month after their adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u65	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. First line, Mr. Mareshki, and then Mr. Kirilov. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are standing. Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! We've heard those two countries that have their own candidates. I think the debate is starting to disgust, and I don't know if the fall could be lower?! It may also be due to the fact that in fact a large part of the people heard it in the speech a few moments ago, they have the self-esteem that they were chosen by the people. I want to tell you that our system right now, because of the failure to accept majority elections, works so that they are chosen by some party secretary. [[Noise and lines.]] And you can't say that, because he is a municipal councillor, he is elected by the people. Countless municipal councillors and MPs, including majority elected at the time, when the law was perverted, were not known at all to the people in the cities concerned. So a little humility, a little more upbringing. Let's not pervert the debate any more, let's concentrate on professional qualities, on people's experience, let's express hope that they will break the umbilical walks that you have shown at the moment, one with BSP, the other with GERB; that morality will finally prevail, and they will be able to faithfully and independently fulfill their duties for the one who is elected. Thank you and I hope once again for a little more morality, a little more humility for everyone in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Kirilov, second line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! After Mr. Mareshki's line, I really wish I could abstain, and I'd abstain to the maximum. I just wanted to tell the speaker Mr. Nedyalkov that the comparison is incorrect. Nor do we know whether Mr. Nikolov fined Mr. Stanishev, nor did the expression Georgiev look at the Valyo case. I do not know what the prosecutors do not look at cases. This comparison is not correct and this debate has really been perverted as an unworthy debate at all. From this he loses the authority of our institution, he loses the authority of the new body. I'm sorry about that, but you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u70	First, let's say hello to the ladies for the holiday. I'm addressing you, colleague. I believe that here today we must make an extremely important choice, but this choice must in no way prejudge the decision of those present. We must make this choice today based on the presented characteristics, but I am opposed to making a revision of their professional path. I think the National Assembly is an independent institution, as well as the Prosecutor's Office. The two professionals had their way to get here today to be elected. I'm against doing an audit of their professional path. If they've made mistakes, I don't think this is the place and time for us to make criticism. I therefore also appeal to the host of this meeting at the moment: not to allow any criticism about their professional development and path. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm connecting what the two first replicators said to me, Mr. Mareshki and Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Mareshki, you should know the fact that I value the people who were municipal councilors. I even appreciate that Mr. Kirilov was also a municipal adviser and was from the Political Party BSP. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u73	I don't hide it, I have a lot to tell. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u74	Well, that's it! Big deal here, and it's a little bit of a deal back there. You understand the double criteria, don't you? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u75	But I'm not hiding it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u76	And I'm not hiding it, and I'm not hiding it. So I just connected the two previous lines. As for the reply made by Mr. Ivanov, I would like to say that my speech was related to the fact that until now in Mr. Georgiev's work there was a weakness which was anyway covered in the Commission's annual accounts for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, namely the benefits which the state is obliged to pay to each taxpayer because the cases were lost for a large part of the cases. You can imagine what it would be like now when the Commission will look at one part of the case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u77	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian Parliament must make its choice. Unfortunately, in every key country debate and that every politician says we have to fight corruption and organised crime, today the debate has fallen lower than I expected. Of course, provocation, as usual, comes from the left-hand side, gives certain qualifications, comparisons, but at the same time for the candidate who is raised by the BSP, important facts about the political connectivity of the candidate are hidden. From the fact of autobiographical data, you can see that in yesterday's or the previous debate in the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics we have been deprived of the opportunity to ask questions exactly what happened today as a debate. A municipal councillor who represented BSP and everyone in Lovech municipality knows that it is actually a young man who in the years has been stimulated and tolerated by the party so that he can reach high positions. That is what you have done, and that is the policy that you have adopted in your entire political life. To say that when you're a city councilman, when you're chairman of the municipal council, you have to fight for the municipality to be financially stable. When we offer such a person for such an anti-corruption body, he must indeed have qualities and stand up for the principle position not to lead the municipality to ruin or financial collapse. Dear colleagues from BSP, until the moment you managed the municipality of Lovech, I would say that you have had 9 million financial corrections under the operational programmes. [[Noise and lines.]] You have 5 million outstanding debts. [[noise and lines]] And if the municipal councillors really supported the mayor or the mayor's administration that you ran, why did it come to this financial collapse? [[Noise and lines.]] When talking about the qualities of the candidates, why are you hiding perhaps the most important and what everyone is seeking when they have to make an informed choice?? Did the applicant effectively fight against crime, organised crime, counteract the plundering of the state by corruption schemes? I will just say that Plamen Georgiev is the prosecutor in whose cases there are convicted politicians. To say that it was in Plamen Georgiev's cases that you made the speculation with the Sofia Estates to remind you that in the cases against them you were essential in the management of the Sofia Estates up until the moment GERB came and managed to actually take the fight against corruption. In Sofia, you had your representative, Simeon Simeonov. Let us recall the trials that were being conducted and the trials that were under way. Do you know why there was no final conviction at the last instance? Because the limitation period has expired and the Executive Director Toshko Dobrev was convicted in the first and second instance. Dear colleagues from BSP, if you had the valor, if you had the real fight against corruption, the limitation period would not have expired because it would not have been necessary to come to Boyko Borisov or GERB in power to reveal this corruption, which you created and tolerated in Sofia Municipality, and, of course, in Sofia real estate. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As far as political proposals are concerned, by law, you know that each of the parliamentary groups must make the relevant proposals. We, together with the United Patriarchs, have presented the professional qualities of the candidate Plamen Georgiev, and therefore in the debates that took place two days ago, everyone has had the opportunity to ask their questions. But let us also take into account the real results that the Commission has had since its creation, at the time when you had governments in the years when you were both triple and quadruple coalition. Just to let you know that the last two years the Commission has taken up and recovered the State's funds of 43 million. lv. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, for last year alone, this money is 28 million. lv. Isn't that a good testimonial for the professional qualities of one of the candidates? You protect the professional qualities of the other candidate. However, to bind the candidate's professional qualities to political bias, or to the fact that his capacity and expertise has been used in one government, I wish every government at this time, and for the future to enjoy people who actually have the relevant competence and who have actually worked for the fight against crime and organised crime. Let us remember that in the evaluation mechanism for Bulgaria, you know that precisely the Commission received the highest estimates in the last two reports, and it is precisely thanks to the effective work of both the head Plamen Georgiev, but also all colleagues who work in this anticorruption unit. Dear colleagues, let us treat each candidate with respect and respect, as at the time we had the respect not to go into a clash and not to use that Maya Manolova was raised as an ombudsman of the state because it was your decision. This was your proposal, but I'm starting to think now whether it was your political move not to be a candidate for President of the BSP or your candidate for the presidential campaign?! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u79	Mr. Tsvetanov, on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u80	You know very well that this was your main motive so that you could get rid of Mrs. Maya Manolova and give her an opportunity in the new career where she, by the way, is doing well. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here I can tell you that we should always appreciate the qualities of the people, not who belongs to which party. In each party there are decent people. In each party, there are people who would really undermine prestige, but the power of a political force is when they distinguish themselves from such actions, and you covered up a very important fact that your candidate is from the BSP. Your candidate was a municipal councillor and he was a long time part of the structures of BSP. Colleagues, I think these were important things that had to be stated in your candidate's biographical data. I am convinced that today we will actually make an informed choice because with the informed choice and with the debate that you have provoked, many truths have been given the opportunity to come out. I thank Mr. Mihowski for asking the question, but we have not heard the appropriate answer from the BSP. Colleagues from BSP, let us respect the institutions, respect any candidate who participates in a competition, and let the Bulgarian Parliament make the right choice, because we need to build the trust of both the Bulgarian institution and Parliament, but also of every Bulgarian institution in which we have a direct relationship with the choice and the choice we have to make. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Kutev first, then raised his hand Mr. Mirchev and then Mr. Popov. That's what I recorded when Mr. Tsvetanov was talking. I'm sorry about the others.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u82	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I don't know why you came into the Sofia Estates and how are you the big wrestlers against the Sofia Estates? But I have a memory. By the time this fight was going on and Danny Kirilov and I were in the same group together, he may remember that the fight against the Sofia estates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u83	A little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u84	Well, that's fine, but you and I were there, if you don't remember. That was before Borisov became mayor. Then Borisov was not yet thinking of becoming mayor and, frankly, the first years hardly and could, so the Sofia Estates is something else. The example with Toshko Dobrev is not good because Toshko Dobrev is tried at two instances, but is justified to a third just like you. Just like you! And you're sentenced to two, and you're acquitted to three. The problem is that you are setting a bad example, because it immediately returns to you. You are also sentenced to two and acquitted to three. I'm not saying that Tosko Dobrev is innocent because I know otherwise. That's not what the court has ruled. To be honest, I'm not convinced you're innocent either. That's a different story. But the fact is, you shouldn't have come in here. And now something else you see, I personally heard with my ears this recording in which the prime minister of the state tells the chief of customs to remove a check. That's a crime for me. The fact that your man didn't hear it is the big problem of today's conversation. All of Bulgaria heard the prime minister say that a customs check should be cancelled, which is a crime for both the head of customs and the prime minister. He was standing right here, Borisov, when the scandal came out. I was sitting there watching him and I was wondering how this guy would survive politically?! Yeah, I'll give him that. He could have lived. But I can't help but admit that everywhere in the world this would have ended not just with the resignation of the cabinet. This was Borisov's first office, and neither he nor you would be here now if this man had done his job. That's the way it is. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I will try to increase your political literacy. Firstly, Mr. Nikolov as elected member of the Committee for Conflict of Interest is depoliticized. This means that he no longer has any bearing on a political party. I wonder if the same thing can be said about Mr. Georgiev? Secondly, about breaking up and getting the debate to the bottom. For this only and only you are responsible because, when we are having a debate on the substance, you are always with some facts, for example, that Mrs. Maya Manolova is a ombudsman. You reach the bottom and then try to talk about some political debate at a higher level. I'm gonna finish this with you guys talking about people qualifications. Let us not forget that because of your qualifications Bulgaria has been sentenced over six times and has to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars. And when you're talking about corruption, a man who, to this day, is having a hard time explaining his six apartments. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and given that Bulgaria is first in corruption in the European Union, I think it is a shame and that you are one of the people who should just stop coming to this platform because it is too high for you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Popov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you said: the House should make the right choice. The right choice doesn't mean it's your choice, because it probably won't be the right choice. I understand your sentiments about BSP. In each statement you talk about BSP. Understandable is the nostalgia of BSP, because more than half of your group have been related to BSP as municipal councilors, her as party members. But more importantly, I don't want to argue about the expertise of the two candidates. We're talking about their independence here. There's no way that any candidate who's been broadcast by you could be independent. [[GERB noise and lines]] Because he has to control the power. He has to control you, and you're assigning him to control you. We are not talking about independence here in any way, and that is the problem with any candidate of yours! If you weren't afraid of corruption, of investigations against you, the normal and logical choice is to choose the other candidate, not the one you have raised, chosen and appointed in practice to control you. If you weren't afraid of corruption, but you're obviously afraid. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You've repeatedly entered personal assaults on my behalf. This was your strategy 2013 to bring the anonymous signal from the then leader of BSP Sergey Stanishev. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, the only thing you can do is...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u91	Please listen to the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u92	...discrediting your political opponent. But you don't give the grade. The assessment is given by the Bulgarian voters who choose a certain political power. That is why Mr. Borisov is respected both in Bulgaria and abroad and is therefore elected third time Prime Minister. As for political bias and that one of our colleagues here, or what you did as an excuse for your candidate. Is it compelling that your chairman of the BSP was in Ivan Kostov's office? Is it quick?! Is it irresistible, Mr. Kutev, or did Philip Popov ask that question? You see, you are currently saying that Plamen Georgiev was Deputy Minister in the cabinet Borisov. But Plamen Georgiev was a prosecutor when he was invited to become Deputy Minister. He is depoliticized by law and has never been a member of the party, while Mrs Cornelia Ninova is today chairman of the BSP. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] And it is! What I can say is that years ago she was Deputy Minister in Ivan Kostov's office. [[Loud noise, lines and laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Isn't that right? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u93	Colleagues, please be quiet! [[Loud noise, lines and laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u94	Let's take a look, give for what happened to properties, I don't know what. Excuse me, but let's not get into these personal attacks. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] because we can talk a lot about a privatisation that has been done in a very difficult period for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. In the manner of conducting the first Mr. Velkov, and then there is a statement from Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct with a request to you personally "to cool Mr. Tsvetanov's political enthusiasm and to tell him that he has demonstrated political illiteracy and lack of knowledge of Bulgarian political history.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u97	Please, Mr. Velkov, this is an insult to Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u98	Through you, I would like to ask: if Mr. Plamen Georgiev was elected head of the new structure, would his first step be to continue the fight against corruption, which is personally related to Mr. Tsvetanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u99	What does that have to do with the way we conduct things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u100	Ten days ago, an associate of Mr. Tsvetanov was arrested in Velingrad of the Economic Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u101	What does that have to do with the way we conduct ourselves, Mr. Velkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u102	Because Mr. Tsvetanov has talked about corruption five times.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u103	It's the way it's led to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u104	He won't say a word. Five days ago he was visiting Velingrad in the hotel of another major functionary of GERB, who is related to this arrest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u105	Mr. Velkov, please! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Velkov. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Please, the way you're holding me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u106	It's that you don't notice me and you don't want to give me a chance to say what I have to say. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u107	I can't help but notice you, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u108	You know, Mr. Tsvetanov... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Mr. Svilenski for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Please extend the time on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u111	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u112	Happy holiday to all ladies and all Bulgarian women! I was not going to take the floor today, honourable Members, because I think my speech would reverse a large part of colleagues who will now probably support Mr. Georgiev. I did not want to take the floor for anything else, but because I think that this body should be elected with confidence and yet the Bulgarian citizens should at least at the beginning believe that Bulgaria can fight corruption. I take the floor, however, prompted by the speech of Mr. Tsvetanov and the theme "Sofia Estates." I can't help but take the floor because I was part of the defendants, Mr. Tsvetanov, on the topic of Sofia Estates. Ten years as a defendant, I've been running around the courtrooms thanks to the prosecution in the face of Mr. Georgiev and Mr. Plamen Panayotov. These two prosecutors will not distribute the responsibility between the two in ten years, they have charged more than 40 indictees, over 10 cases. [[GERB's line.]] Listen to me, Mr. Ivanov, and you will see that the things I will say will be interesting for you, and you decide how you will vote. At the last hearing of the court, on the basis of which all the charges on the Sofia estates were set aside, I do not say that there have been any violations for all the charges, which justified all the defendants, all 40 members of the boards of directors, all the evaluators who were justified, the expert, an elderly person, came and told the court: "Dear lady judge, please take me away from this case for eight years, I was pressured by the prosecution to give such assessments that the members of the board of directors would be sentenced. I ask you to take me away from the case. I refuse my grades, none of them are made according to the methods of evaluation, and assign new triple, five-fold experts. On this basis, the judge punished the expert that eight years had put this pressure on him and did not refer to the prosecution. He punished him with a $2,000 fine. This thing is on the case, and anyone can read it. I'm not saying whether Mr. Georgiev or Mr. Panayotov were the two prosecutors. At one point Mr. Georgiev retired. If he wants to get up now and say at what point he retired and did he put pressure on the expert. Because if he put pressure on the expert, eight years of forty people in ten cases... I don't wish it on any of you. After all, acquittal sentences from first to third instance! The last cases. The prosecution's withdrawal, the prosecution itself already sees that there is no basis. I'm not saying there wasn't any violation of the municipal companies anywhere. Now think about it. If Mr. Georgiev wants to get up and answer whether he was part of the team that put pressure on the expert Sasco Nikolov. Go out and tell them to clear your name, because if I hadn't said that now, those 40 people who are on trial and justified would have said it at some point. Mr. Tsvetanov, to date in the case of the Sofia Estates, which you say Simeon Simeonov has condemned the state for 40 thousand. lv. so far, confirmed by the third instance. Toshko Dobrev, you say, has condemned the state for 50 thousand. lv. It's only two of the defendants. There are 38 more to go, which will lead these cases. Who will pay for it, Mr. Tsvetanov? Is this how we fight corruption? Is this how we're going to put pressure on future action, because that's exactly what this body is going to do?! He won't do anything else. Again, I apologize, colleagues, I didn't want to take the floor. Mr. Tsvetanov with his speech, blaming BSP's participation in the Sofia Estates... Mr. Tsvetanov, BSP in the Sofia Estates, had only one member of the Board of Directors in my person. I've been on trial for eight years. For two years, I've already been acquitted by an acquittal. I want you to tell me, who of these 40 will pay for the state of the defendants for more than ten years?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u114	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Svilensky! That is exactly what I had in mind in my speech, which I did that you actually brought in today's debate on this subject. You started giving an evaluation to one of the candidates. You didn't talk about the qualities of your candidate you raised. Today's debate was supposed to be a clash of ideas and to be a clash of what qualities of which candidate are better. With the first speeches you made, yes, I absolutely agree with what you said. The only thing I wanted in my cases that were brought, and thanks to the political aggression that was in your party, because they created it as a feeling and as a tension I also went down this path, but today, standing before you, I can tell you that I have always looked people in the eye and I have never been ashamed of what I have done. I have always worked in the interest of the state, and since there have been several examples of several criminal cases, I can say that there is no fault of the Minister, but of all those who have participated in this process. I've kind of contributed, but I can tell you that we've done an effective fight because we've had third-degree convictions against heavy organized crime groups that have committed murders, kidnappings. And you should at least recognize it from the BSP for those efforts that have been made over this period. I have respect for you, and I'm sorry for what you've been through. You understand that today, when we are having a debate on the substance, we are running away from this debate. We're just getting into these personal attacks and yes, I was really provoked to make this mistake about the Kostov cabinet, and I just wanted to say about the Technoimpex, about the board. Thank you. [[Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria": "Eee!".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u116	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the way the discussion started, you gave it. We said about the activity of any of the candidates in what he was involved in, where he was involved. That's what we're choosing right now. You went to explain who was a member of BSP, who was a municipal councillor from BSP. Well, Mr. Kirilov and he was a city councilman from BSP. Is there something wrong with that? Are you ashamed, Mr. Kirilov? There's nothing wrong with that, is there?! [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] So there's nothing wrong, there's no shame. On the contrary, this is part of your good biography to get to the chair of the Legal Commission. But, Mr. Tsvetanov, I told you at the beginning I wasn't going to take any attitude because I think that from this debate and from this thing there is no account of any Bulgarian MP. You were the one who made your statement, including bringing Cornelia Ninova into Kostov's government. I understand that since yesterday you and Cornelia Ninova have had some other expectations, perhaps. You want your speech to start with it all the time and end with it. Do it, but you're losing to this job. Yesterday, you and I have been on the media all day with our backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u118	Dear Bulgarians, happy holiday! Be healthy and beautiful, respected and loved! Dear colleagues! Mr. Tsvetanov, today you have completed your CV with new facts unknown to me. On this issue, you can contact Mr. Borisov, who is already responsible for such accusations in court. Talk to him about what the consequences are for these allegations about him. So you don't get in line next to him. Dear Mr. Georgiev, you will probably be elected today. It's pre-solved, we're not gullible, but you start with a false start. Whatever arguments we have here today, the key word for me is trust. When a body and the people who represent it do not trust whatever they do, it will not be well accepted by the Bulgarian society. Fighting corruption is a problem of trust. Europe does not trust us and therefore says: "You have fulfilled all the technical requirements for Schengen, but we do not want you because there is corruption and you are not dealing with it. A GERB has been ruling for the last nine years to just remind it. For the same reason they say: Yes, you have financial stability, yes, we can talk about the Eurozone, but we will not let you into the waiting room for corruption. A GERB has ruled in the last nine years. Why is corruption the number one problem for the Bulgarian society? Because there is no confidence in the institutions, in the MPs, that we will solve this issue. And you didn't do it well when you passed the new law. Mr. Tsvetanov, today is not the time for the two candidates to confront ideas. The law has been passed. They have nothing to discuss about anti-corruption ideas. You passed that law. They must convey confidence to a person who will apply this law, apart from professionally, for which they both have qualities, objectively and morally. Unfortunately, the doubts of non-execution in cases that Mr. Georgiev has already seen will weigh. And I feel sorry for him because he starts with a false start. It starts without trust and this is the big problem with corruption. Besides being a matter of statehood, except that our people, the Bulgarians, define it as number one in their lives, they simply do not trust us, honourable ladies and gentlemen ruling, all of us. And today you have not made such a contribution to increasing this confidence in our European partners, in our Bulgarian citizens. What do you expect to end this body when no one believes it, when the person you choose is predestined, when there are doubts about its objectivity?! There is no way in this way to deal with the problem of corruption with a lame law which, when we adopted it, you said: "Let's give it a year, let's see how it works. You gave him a month and fixed it. We didn't have a month, and we introduced the first amendment because the law doesn't work, it creates more problems than it solves. I assure you, in two months you will submit the next and I will tell you on which issue of the Law. We've passed a non-working law, you're putting a pre-elected dependent person, not as perhaps political as other interests. Unemployed law, dependent man, what result do you want? Fighting corruption is three things: good law, brave men and women to implement it without any addictions, and at least a minimum trust at the start. Well, none of those things are here. I say this with regret and with pain, because corruption is not the only one dragging you down, dragging Bulgaria, and not just among our people who suffer from it, in Europe. Isn't that what we're all fighting for?! And you're chairmen. Mr. Borisov is President of the Council. How are you helping this Presidency today with these decisions? You don't think the European ambassadors don't see this discussion today? You don't think they're jumping to conclusions, do you? A new assessment will come, a new monitoring mechanism will come, that is, a surveillance report. But you're not looking at this perspective, but you're looking now and at the moment to arrange for a person who will listen to you to ensure that you will not be hooked in any way about what you have stolen in the last nine years of the rule of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u119	- What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u120	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, what you have tried to do is once again suggestion and again everything related to the Presidency, and also with the dependence of one of the candidates. These claims do not in any way make you more agmented to protect your candidate. Again, let us still have respect for the personal qualities of each candidate. Let us also have respect for every politician, because, Mrs. Nino, you said there was a false start in the announcement and the comment that is being made at the moment. Didn't you start with a false start, participating in the executive power in Stanishev's cabinet? You've been released. Anyone can draw conclusions and reasoning........................................................................................................ But what is important is that we should in no way enter into such debates, but we should talk about what a person has achieved professionally, what his qualities are, and whether he can cope with this challenge. The estimate I made based on the last two years is over 40 million. lv. For the last year, for 2017 28 million. The assessment given by the European Commission, which you are constantly talking about, has actually given the highest assessment of this institution. So I respect you because you are still the leader of the largest opposition party, but you, with your behavior in your party all the time, want to neglect the Presidency and everything we debate, always bring it out that this is a problem for the state. The state is moving in the right direction and the evaluation of the Presidency is very high. You can't take this. Just to tell you that in the course of this year, you have done nothing reasonable as an alternative to anything, and you just want to separate, oppose and ride certain public sentiments that one might say are populist, not real.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, until Mr. Bikov came to the balcony of the Chamber is the Chairman of the Friendship Group Israel, Bulgaria, and a member of the Knesset of Israel Eitan Broshi, who is visiting Bulgaria today. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u122	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, first of all, I would like to make a very sincere remark to you. I don't like you speaking on behalf of the people of this tribune. You're not elected for this. [[Private applause from GERB.]] You have not been chosen to speak to the people. You can speak on behalf of those 15 buses that you brought to the centre of Sofia yesterday; you can possibly speak on behalf of part of your party because you yourself claim that half your National Council wants to be in a coalition with GERB, so obviously you cannot speak from part of your party. In this sense, the question of trust is very serious. I agree with you that every institution must have confidence, only trust is built with some institutional culture. Last week, you go out and say, "Is DANS investigating CEZ?" What will the NSA investigate?? Who will investigate? Who's to investigate? The Executive Bureau of BSP? Or is trust built only in the Executive Bureau of BSP and if someone is broadcast from there, it will necessarily enjoy trust and authority?! However, there are other institutions in this country besides the Executive Bureau of BSP. There is a parliamentary majority elected by the people. It has gained the trust of the majority of the Bulgarian people and yet none of us allow ourselves to speak on behalf of the entire Bulgarian people. We know that your constituents don't recognize us as human, or at least they don't sympathize, or they don't delegate such powers to us. Let's speak for that name. Dependence. Anyone can get political dependence. Here, we've seen your candidate. I don't think it's a shame he was a city councilman or anything like that. Anyone can get political dependence and be corrupted by their authority. Let us be well - meaning and really try to build trust. In this I would support you if you took such a political approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Third line, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u124	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, first of all, Happy March 8th! To be so beautiful, smiling and positive! [[Radio.]] I want to start my line to you with this. As chairman of the largest opposition party, I would like to ask you how and in what way do you raise institutionality in the country? How do you keep the authority of different institutions? Even before the new commission starts working, you start with this: I'm sorry, is this how we build the authority of the National Assembly? This law came from the National Assembly. I can't agree with the words "unfunctioning law" as long as the law hasn't started yet. Give it a chance to start, see how it is applied and then take attitude. The next thing you know, you're making a suggestion about the candidate who hasn't started yet. He has not yet been elected and you are making an suggestion to all present here and to all the Bulgarian people of this high tribune. You're making an impression. How to trust, how to build trust in institutions and a new structure that the whole society relies on so much?! I can't agree with you as a constructive person that everything you pour out of this tribune for the yet uninitiated working organ is negative. However critical and critical we are of the future candidate, let us see the assessment of the European institutions, the independent experts. Please! You're an intelligent man! You shouldn't make such suggestions from this high tribune before this institution has started working. In the final... can not all the time from the Presidency of Bulgaria can be thrown only reproaches and negatives. Let's see something positive. We are all building the image of Bulgaria. That's my remark to you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u126	Dear colleagues, I am not sure if I am the only one, but at least I am one of the few MPs who, when speaking from here, says, including yesterday I said it on another occasion. I am speaking on behalf of one million Bulgarians who supported the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From this tribune I do not speak on behalf of either the Executive Bureau or the National Council, but of a million Bulgarian citizens who voted for BSP. And if you claim that we should not cause division and hatred, then please respect these one million Bulgarians who voted for us. As for your second thesis, which is very important for institutions and respect. What does BSP do as opposition and what do you do? Colleagues, I confidently say that you are destroying the institutions of Bulgaria nine years in a row. You've been tearing them down by the Prime Minister who hasn't set foot here in months. You didn't come to a no-confidence vote! Not to mention he's not coming to parliamentary control. Ruining the National Assembly institution, which is the first, and the Prime Minister is obliged to be here! You are ruining the National Assembly institution when you remove the Vice-President of the Parliament for free opinion. You are ruining the presidential institution when you are making an anti-constitutional special committee in the National Assembly to investigate the President. Ruining the judiciary as independent when Boyko Borisov calls members of the Supreme Judicial Council on the phone what to do and how to vote and invade a meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council as Prime Minister. What institutions are you talking about and accusing the opposition of destroying them?! How we defend these institutions because this becomes one of our most important tasks to preserve the institutions, the legal order and democracy in Bulgaria. And how do we do that? For example, when the Prime Minister spends money from the budget without passing through the National Assembly, we ask the Court of Auditors, which is an institution in Bulgaria, to enter the Council of Ministers and to make an inspection. This is how institutions, law and order are protected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u127	What does this have to do with the debate we're having, Mrs. Ninova? [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u128	Why are you accusing us of destroying the institutions? How do we protect the National Assembly institution? When it adopts unconstitutional laws, we file complaints with the Constitutional Court and, thank God, the independent Constitutional Court has abolished a number of the laws that you have adopted. How do we protect the institutions? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] How do we protect the judiciary as independent? By offering you an alternative to a law in which the fight against corruption would not have been led by a man of the ruling majority, but by an independent body that would have equally inserted all politicians from all the parties they steal where they belong. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u130	This is how independent institutions are kept.. legal order and democracy! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u131	In the manner of conduct, come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u132	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. My fellow Members, I sincerely regret that from this tribune of MPs and not just today, they show a lack of recognition of the Constitution, and this is unforgivable for us. You should have made a remark, first of all, to Mr. Bikov, then to Mrs. Ninova about the fact that the people's representative represents the entire people. However, I attach this to the fact that you have also violated this principle, Madam President, in your choice in your nice and emotional address to the National Assembly. We remember, then you said that everyone should express and represent the region from which they were elected. I'm graduating, obviously we need to do it by quoting art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of our Constitution: The People's Representatives represent not only their constituents but also the entire people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Are there any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will read you the voting rule once again: the vote shall be carried out separately for each candidate on the order set out in the candidate list. He'll read you one more time. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Counteractions of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED He elected Nikolay Ivanov as Chairman of the Commission for Counteractions of Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Vote 214 MPs: 79, against 62, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. The second one. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Vote 218 MPs: 148, against 66, abstention 4. The proposal is accepted, and with this Mr. Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov for Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property. Congratulations to Mr. Georgiev's statement on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. [[Part of the Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS are leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber, honored guests, colleagues from BSP also who have remained in the Chamber! For two weeks now you have been straining the public with your hysterical lies that the government of GERB and personally Prime Minister Boyko Borisov were behind the deal between CEZ and Inercom. Lies you never prove with any reasonable argument, because there are none. Yesterday, however, a written clue appeared, which clearly showed who was behind the recently anonymous company Inercom. The buyer of CEZ's assets distributed to the media a press release whose content is not particularly interesting. Interesting is the author of the attachment containing the press release in question. He is Monica Yosifova. These are the names by which the current wife of the President of the PES and former Chairman of the BSP Syarhey Stanishev became known. A small technical error, comrades, gave you not just BSP, but BSP and PES are behind the deal on CEZ assets in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]] A deal that you tried to slander us to repeat the winter 2013 riot. Have you now made it clear to you, honourable Members, who are the gads? Yesterday, Cornelia and her gang were looking for them in the square, and they found themselves once again at Positano. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, with the revelation of the Stanishevi clan and the shadow of the Inercom, the news of the relationship between BSP and CEZ did not run out. It also became clear that during the management of the BSP with Prime Minister Oresharski, head of the department at CEZ was proposing twice the energy then Minister " our colleague Drago Stoynev, the Bulgarian government to buy the company back. Why is this not done, only you know, but Drago Stoynev owes the public an answer to the question: when is he sincere now when he announces the return of the state to the ERP or when he had the opportunity to do so and refused?! Because even your hypocrisy, comrades socialists, must have some boundaries. While yesterday you were dealing with the anti-humane driving far and wide across the country of pensioners to use for your party circuses, the European Commission has placed another high score for the government of Boyko Borisov. The Commission removed Bulgaria from the list of economies with excessive macroeconomic imbalances. [[Applause from GERB.]] A place where our country fell because of the collapse of KTB, which you allowed during your reign, Mr. Stoinev, with Prime Minister Oresharski. The scale of recognition for the excellent work of the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs can be understood by looking at the group of countries to which Bulgaria joins. These are the leaders of the Eurozone.. Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, as well as Sweden, Ireland, Portugal, Croatia and Cyprus. The reasons why our European partners are taking this decision are the achieved sustainable economic growth of 4% above the Union average, the improved labour market conditions of record low unemployment and record high employment, the excellent fiscal results that meet all the criteria for joining the Eurozone, as well as the improved sustainability of the financial sector against financial crises that you cause whenever you are in power. The decision of the European Commission is logical and consistent, it is another step in the long series of high marks which Bulgaria's international partners place on the cabinet Borisov 3. I remind you that in the autumn of 2017, the most authentic international credit agencies increased our country's credit rating, assessing our prospects for development as stable. The annual report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which will probably be the last result of all the reforms that GERB's governance has implemented in recent years, was also positive. The political assessments of the leaders of the European Union are expected to be high. When taking over the Presidency in January, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker made it clear that Bulgaria cannot in any case be called a corrupt country and its place is in Schengen and the Eurozone because we meet all the criteria for accession. The President of the European Council Donald Tusk was also eloquent, who stressed that leading with Boyko Borisov Bulgaria is the natural engine for the accession of the Western Balkans to the European Union. Do not doubt that these assessments will become better as the European Presidency progresses, because the current impressions of everyone in Brussels are that Bulgaria is doing more than great. This is the moment to express my sincere disappointment, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists. Comrade Ninova, happy holiday! Disappointment that instead of contributing to the development and good performance of our country, you have sabotaged every effort the progressive part of Bulgarian society is making. You started with the campaign for defamation of Bulgaria with a series of negative publications in markedly left-wing foreign media, continued with the false news about the introduction of a third gender by GERB and as a culmination you played the humiliating farce for yourself in front of the symbols of Bulgarian democracy, such institutions as the National Assembly, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. Fars, because during working hours for the MPs, while in plenary we discussed proposals from the referendum, you ran away from work and went to hug and protest with the leaders of the Resurrection Movement, which only two weeks ago clearly supported the anti-European Lukovmarsh. You hugged another wrestler for the Eurasian development of Bulgaria and on top of that you did not even return to parliament to support President Radev's veto. Is this an accident, or are you already so confused in the red lines that you're drifting away from the president himself? Or is he different from you? It doesn't matter, because all your actions clearly show that there are no political principles for you? You are not capable of patriotism, you lack even simple humanity. This time there will be no resignations, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, because proven management of Bulgaria is an art that your guerrilla souls do not understand and your main goal to sabotage the Bulgarian Presidency will suffer another collapse. Remember this, Mrs. Ninova, and find a more noble cause. I will end with a quote from Stoyan Mihajlovski and his work, which describes magnificently the lowness of passions that control your souls with every success of GERB. Do you remember when the firefly asks the owl, "What have I done to you?" How am I disturbing you? ♪ Well, you're glowing! ♪ [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Come in for a statement, Mr. Stoinev, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u136	I still have a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u137	Do you have any more?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u138	Yes, I do, of course. [[Laughter]] This is the time to tell Mrs. Ninova who didn't have the courage to stay in the room and run away. Yes, it is true, Mr. Tsvetanov, very few of the deputy ministers in Ivan Kostov's government were caught in acquisition. She keeps mentioning the word "theft." Whoever's thinking about stealing, he's talking about stealing, I'm talking about embezzlement. Those who embezzled during that government were much higher and darker in that blue hierarchy. Very few deputy ministers have embezzled, but Mrs. Ninova managed to leave with an external trading company from the time of the UDF. By the time she was Deputy Minister, they knew what they had released her for, their government, but I also know as a Plovdiv official. It was during her time from 2006 to 2007 that Bulgaria lost an institution such as the International Fair of Plovdiv, and properties worth nearly a billion. And with the new organ... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u139	Time, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u140	...and with the new body this will be the first deal that Plovdiv people will make for a real and new inspection...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u141	Thank you, Gernevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u142	...and then we'll see if this body works or not. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u143	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a pity that we continue here from this tribune and have turned the tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament into a place where false news is poured out. It is a pity, even you applauded a man and rejoiced for a frank vulgarity that is spoken by this tribune, and even all journalists know that, in order to write and write news, the least thing is to check. When you motivate the Members of the National Assembly to speak in this way, the opposition does not suffer, this is what the whole building and this whole Bulgarian parliament suffers from. It's a pity, because you're not making a remark and you're complicit in what's going on. There's no way to trust when, for the slightest thing, we're ready to get to the bottom. It's a sacred tribune, it's a shame that you use it this way, but you've really turned it into a village seat where everyone can say who they want. Here are the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my name is Dragomir, I'm not Drago, I'm Dragomir Stoynev to be clear, because someone might feel like we're friends. No, we're not friends. We are still colleagues who need to respect each other because here I strongly believe that we have been chosen to pursue one goal. This is the prosperity of the Bulgarian state and the improvement of the well-being of Bulgarian citizens. As a Bulgarian politician, after all, I deeply believe that our main task here is to improve people's lives, not to hear what someone said behind the corners and to come out here and formalize what is said. This is unacceptable, shameful, ugly, and every single MP should be ashamed of such statements, which were currently a declaration of a bunch of rumours. It is a shame and a shame that the government applauds such declarations! Get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, if while I was Minister, CEZ were selling, I assure you, the state would have bought them. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] I assure you that the state would have bought CEZ on a market basis, not with nationalisation, as you are trying to scare people, but entirely on a market basis, the state is entering the economy, competing with private sites, if, of course, it is sold, if it is not sold, we cannot do anything. As for example, the energy sector, as EVN, does not sell. The point is, your idea is for the state to be gone at all. We believe that the state must ensure security in certain areas. If in 2013 there was an official offer, official talks, you would have taken them out of the ministry by now. That's why it's ugly when you're succumbing to rumors and manipulations that we're trying to feed people's curiosity about a problem that's really important. I will not go into the depth of this problem because I believe that the Bulgarian state, no matter what the government and the Bulgarian parliaments, which have been since 2004 have done their work in the name and only in justice and justice for the Bulgarian citizens. End of story. However, the problem is now another, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is that yesterday the Deputy Minister of Finance stated that he did not send any document to the Bulgarian state. Then how does this document get to the Prime Minister's office? The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is distinguished from our Prime Minister. The Deputy Minister of Finance, who is responsible because CEZ is a state enterprise and this is not about a deal between private outlets. The Deputy Minister of Finance is completely different from what the Prime Minister said. Then who's not telling the truth? With respect to this tribune, because I cannot afford to speak with obscene and insulting qualifications, because if you do not respect us, at least I respect this institution, and I respect, of course, my colleagues. Who's not telling the truth? This must be clear because the Bulgarian people need to know because 2016 - 2017 according to Mr. Plaskac, there have been specific talks. Then why didn't the state intervene? Leaving aside this, it does not match your economic vision, for example. Let's have an argument over ideologies, but not about slander! Secondly, we do not accept in this treaty that there is a clause in which, you see, the future buyer of CEZ should cooperate against Bulgaria in Arbitration. But where are you? What do you mean?! And how does a woman like Mrs. Ginka Varbakova agree to such a clause? Who is this Bulgarian who agrees to such a clause, we ask from the left? You have to give an answer because in the end a year and a half, two years since it was launched, you are managing, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition! What is the vision of BSP? BSP has repeatedly stated that we are for a similar kind of deal, but either the state fully buys CEZ or the state is not involved. Because right now what you're doing is something scandalous, honourable ladies and gentlemen ruling! Your goal is to close the deal because the state, entering into this deal, albeit with a minority and majority stake, is de facto attracting funding because this deal cannot now be closed due to the huge scandal it has. But when you enter into a deal, you tell international investors, in front of financial markets, which only wait for the state to be part of this deal, even minority. You say, "Come, finance, the state is behind this deal." The second, which is scandalous, you are clearing the image of Ginka Varbakova. Who is it, I ask, Ginka Varbakova?! I don't know this woman. There are colleagues from you who don't know her either. Who is this woman? And the state, coming in, though with a small share, says: "Ginka Varbakova is clean. You can now finance this deal in the financial markets. Because the state is behind this deal. This is completely unacceptable to us. Again, the state should return to the economy as a market player, not as a guy to crush and take shares from the market. Let the state compete, so we want in these management bodies to have fully competent people and these companies to work on a market basis and compete. Because then the capital will stay here, and it will not feed the Czech pensioners. That's the difference between us and you! This is our vision of the economy in this new world that is changing. I'm not saying you might like her. You may have a completely different vision, but this neoliberal vision tolerates a complete defeat everywhere. Therefore, specific answers should be given here: does the state have Ginka Varbakova's back? This is what we want from the opposition and we want it as soon as possible. Will the state guarantee Ginka Varbakova's interests? These answers are important. These answers we have to give to society because people are really worried. And do not abuse things that are really disturbing and that are in the interest of the Bulgarian state. I assure you, there will be no BSP politician who will allow himself to put his personal or party interest above the interest of the Bulgarian state. What you've been doing so far is exactly what you've been trying to run. There are no winners and losers here, there is an interest in Bulgaria! This interest of Bulgaria must be protected by us because we are Bulgarian MPs. We defend the interest of Bulgarian citizens, and we have not come here to speak slanderously, to blaspheme, to insult and at the same time to applaud such speeches. I'm ashamed that you're going on in this room and you haven't understood what you're here for, what you're fighting for and what you're defending! BSP says it most responsiblely: we want answers! It's normal to ask questions and ask for answers. The sooner you give answers to these specific questions that I have asked, the better not only for you, but also for the Bulgarian citizens! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. To say that on the balcony are the ladies from the Association "We women" village of Bachevo, municipality of Razlog. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] I received a message that the mayors of the municipality of Karlovo are also on the balcony. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI'S INSTRUCTURING. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u146	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. The persons referred to in art. 4 may apply the measures under this Section only if the following cumulative conditions are met: 1. the application of such measures does not fall under the conditions of medium or high risk referred to in the national risk assessment; 2. the application of such measures shall be based on the person identified under art. 4 areas with low risk for the application of art. 98 and 100; 3. the person under art. 4 has collected sufficient information that gives him sufficient reason to believe that the specific transaction or transaction or business relationship with the client is at low risk; 4. the specific case does not fall into cases where the application of extended complex verification measures is mandatory pursuant to Section IV of this Chapter; 5. the implementation of such measures shall not interfere with the performance of sufficient monitoring of the business relationships or transactions in order to identify cases of abnormal operations or transactions in accordance with art. 47 or cases to be reported in accordance with art. 72; 6. there is no doubt in this case of money laundering, terrorist financing or the existence of criminal funds; 7. the person under art. 4 is able to show that sufficient measures have been taken to identify and assess the risk and the fulfilment of the conditions under point 4. 1 supplier 6; 8. the person under art. 4 has previously notified the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the intention to apply simplified measures for a complex inspection against them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u147	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 26 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: 66 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u148	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. In the presence of the conditions under art. 26 measures under art. 25, para. 3 may also be applied where the client is a credit institution or a person under art. 4 t. 5, 8. 11 of the Republic of Bulgaria, from another Member State or from a third country whose legislation contains requirements complying with the requirements of this law, taking into account the level of risk of those countries and the application of measures to counter money laundering and terrorist financing, in line with this level, the availability of the full volume of similar measures as required by the Financial Action against Money Laundering Group (FATF) and their effective implementation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. In the presence of the conditions under art. 26 measures under art. 25, para. 3 may also apply where the client is a state or local authority of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. In the presence of the conditions under art. 26 measures under art. 25, para. 3 may also apply where the client is an institution performing power functions in accordance with European Union law under the following conditions: 1. the person under art. 4 has collected sufficient information which does not give rise to doubt about the identity of the institution; 2. the institution shall comply with reporting procedures and its activities shall be transparent; 3. the institution shall be reported to a body of the European Union, to a body of a Member State or there shall be verification procedures ensuring control of its activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u149	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Articles 27, 28 and 29 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u150	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) In respect of products, services, operations or transactions, or delivery mechanisms, the persons referred to in art. 4 may assess the potential risk for the purpose of applying the simplified complex customer verification on the basis of the following additional risk factors underlying a potentially lower risk: 1. insurance contracts where the gross amount of the periodic premiums or contributions to the insurance contract for one year does not exceed BGN 2 000. either their equivalent in foreign currency, or the premium, or the contribution to the insurance contract is one-off and does not exceed BGN 5 000. or their equivalent in foreign currency; 2. insurance contracts under pension schemes under which there is no pre- buy-in clause and the contract cannot be used as a pledge; 3. financial products or services that provide duly defined and limited services to certain types of consumers to improve access to financial inclusion; 4. products on which the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is managed by other factors such as portfolio restrictions or ownership transparency. (2) In the cases under para. 1 persons applying measures under art. 25, para. 3 shall notify in advance the Directorate-General for Finance Intelligence of the State Agency. National Security, under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. (3) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 5 may apply lower thresholds than those referred to in para. 1, t. 1 where, in accordance with Chapter 7, Section II establishes a higher risk of money laundering for the customer, product or service concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u151	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 30 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Guys, we're gonna stop here, and after the break, we're gonna move on. Dear colleagues, on the occasion of the International Women's Day today in the National Assembly, the Women's People's Choir is a guest. With their performances the ladies of people will congratulate the MPs for the celebration at the Club of the National Representative at 11:30. Please, let's enjoy the ladies' work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u152	Please, the Quaestors, invite your coworkers from the towers. We continue with the Second Reading Report. Please, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31, in which the words "on the basis' are replaced by "on the basis'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. In the case of information giving rise to a higher level of risk, the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security may give binding instructions to the persons under art. 4 to: 1. implement immediately any of the measures under Art. 1. 10; 2. suspend the application of simplified complex verification measures in respect of a category of customers, products or services. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u154	Are there any speeches? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. We shall proceed to a vote on art. Article 31 as amended by the Commission, art. 32 as amended by the Commission, art. Art. 33 and art. 34 according to the importers' report. Again, I request to the Quaestors: invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, please take your seats to participate in the vote. Vote 77 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 13. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The movement in the hall is continuing. Apparently, my colleagues are slowly entering, which is why I'm asking for a re-vote procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] If Mr. Gokov didn't understand, I will specify: I request a revoting procedure. Mr. Gokov, shall I kill you? It's about re-voting. Colleagues keep coming in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u156	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The reason you're pointing is obvious. I'm rethinking the reported texts from art. Art. 31 to Art. 34 as amended by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u157	"Department IV" - Advanced complex check. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u158	Are there any statements on the name? There are no speeches. We vote on the name of Section IV. Vote 97 MPs: 81, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u159	Under art. 35 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 35, p. 7 at the end of the text, after the word............................................................................................... 27 ".."......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35, as in it, in the text before t. 1 after the words "Section I" is added from this chapter and everywhere the word "current" is replaced by "this" is replaced by "this."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u160	Thank you. Are there any statements on the reported text? I am using the moment to announce the entry into the hall of the ladies from the Women's People's Choir Sofia, whose performance we had the pleasure to hear during the holiday. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that the amendment we are proposing is necessary and necessary for the purpose of unloading the control authorities from unnecessary administrative burdens. Why am I saying this? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 explicitly mention that a third country to which the legislation is synchronised and complies with the requirements of this law and so on. That is, if this third country has the necessary legislation at the relevant level, we could make use of this and not impose unnecessary administrative burdens and unnecessary checks, as at the moment. Because of this need, we are making this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u162	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other comments on the text under consideration? There are no requests to make a statement. First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 30, 47, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the text in art. 35. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u163	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36, para. 5 t. 5 and so on. 6... are The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 apply measures for extended complex verification in respect of potential clients, existing clients and actual owners of a client, a legal person or other legal entity that are prominent political figures in the Republic of Bulgaria, in another Member State or in a third country, or in international organisations, as well as in respect of potential clients, existing customers and actual owners of a client, a legal person or other legal entity that are related to such prominent political persons. (2) Prominent political figures within the meaning of para. 1 are natural persons who perform or have been entrusted with the following important public functions: 1. Heads of State, Heads of Governments, Ministers and Deputy Ministers or Assistant Ministers; 2. Members of parliaments or other legislative bodies; 3. members of constitutional courts, supreme courts or other supreme bodies of the judiciary whose decisions are not subject to subsequent appeals except in exceptional circumstances; 4. members of the Court of Auditors; 5. members of central bank management bodies; 6. ambassadors and managers of diplomatic missions; 7. senior officers of the armed forces; 8. members of administrative, management or supervisory bodies of state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with sole owner of the State; 9. Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Municipalities, Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Districts and Chairmans of Municipal Councils; 10. members of the governing bodies of political parties; 11. Heads and alternate heads of international organisations, members of management or supervisory bodies in international organisations or persons having equivalent function in such organisations. (3) The categories defined in para. 2, p. 1 "7" shall include respectively and as far as applicable positions in the institutions and bodies of the European Union and international organisations. (4) The categories defined in para. 2, p. 1 "8" does not include officials at a medium or lower level. (5) For the purposes of para. 1 for the persons concerned shall be considered: 1. spouses or persons living in actual cohabitation on a marital basis; 2. the first-degree downwards and their spouses or persons with whom the first-degree downwards live in actual cohabitation on a marital basis; 3. the first-degree ascenders and their spouses or persons with whom the first-degree ascenders live in actual cohabitation on a marital basis; 4. the second-degree relatives and their spouses or persons with whom the second-degree relatives live in actual cohabitation on a marital basis; 5. any natural person known to be a real owner jointly with a person under para. 2 of a legal person or other legal entity or situated in other close commercial, professional or other business relations with a person ) (a.k.a. OJ L 6. any natural person who is the sole owner or actual owner of a legal person or other legal entity known to have been created for the benefit of a person under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u164	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is to drop the item. 5 and 6 on para. 5 of the article in question. 36, since the broad interpretation of the Law that someone is known or supposed to be not applicable in the legislation. In legislation, and especially when repressive measures are applied, only evidence should be worked, not assumptions, card reading, coffee reading, or perhaps in plain sight. I don't know what it means to think that someone else is related or related to someone else. Moreover, this law is repressive and the assumption itself or the indication of assumption can be used for pressure or as a political bat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? There are no requests for lines. Other speeches on the proposed text of art. 36? I won't. Please vote on the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov. They voted 104 MPs: 30, against 60, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the wording of art. 36, proposed in the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. Under art. 38 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Baychev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 at the end of the text after the words the person under art. In the case of contracts with long-term executions, a comma shall be placed and added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u168	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev. We are discussing at the same time art. 37 and 38 and your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We believe that this proposal is up-to-date and correct, as long-term implementation contracts have already established the relevant parameters of the contract, namely terms, price, payment method and the corresponding penalties for non-compliance. I do not see what will change when the person who manages the legal person concerned enters and how he will be able to change the conditions as they are already specified. It may benefit only from the benefits of that contract or be subject to sanctions under that contract accordingly. Everything about the contract is clear and there is no need for unnecessary administrative burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u170	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any Members of the National Assembly wishing to speak on the texts discussed? I don't see any requests. First we will vote on the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov for amendment of the proposals on the Report text of art. 38. Voted 103 MPs: 26, against 65, abstentioned 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the texts of art. 37 and 38 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 83, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39 as in para. 2 the word "rich' is replaced by "emergency'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40. Under art. 41 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. (1) As regards a potential client, an existing client or an actual owner of a client, a legal person or other legal entity that is a person under art. 36, measures shall apply for extended complex verification under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) Specific measures for extended complex verification, which shall be applied in each case, shall be assessed by the person referred to in art. 4 in accordance with the type of client under art. 36 and the nature of the business relationship with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u172	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts of art. 39, 40 and 41? I don't see any requests for speeches. Please vote on the texts of art. 39, 40 and 41 as proposed in the Commission Report. They voted 106 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u173	Under art. 42 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: Art. 42. (1) Based on the risk assessment under Chapter 7, the persons referred to in art. 4 develop effective internal systems to enable them to determine whether a potential client, an existing client or an actual owner of a client is a person under art. 36. (2) The internal systems under para. 1 may be based on one or more of the following sources of information: 1. information obtained by applying the expanded complex verification measures; 2. written declaration requested by the client to determine whether the person falls into one of the categories under art. 36; 3. information obtained through the use of internal or external databases. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under art. 44, as in para. 1, t. 1 the words "on the basis' are replaced by "on the basis of'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. Under art. 46 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46: Art. 46. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 place on an ongoing and extended basis their business relationships, operations and transactions with persons from countries who do not apply or fully apply international standards in countering money laundering. (2) When the operation or transaction under para. 1 has no apparent economic or legal purpose, the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 collect, as far as possible, additional information on the circumstances relating to the operation or transaction and its purpose. (3) States which do not apply or apply incomplete international standards in countering money laundering shall be designated by the European Commission as high-risk third countries. The list of these countries is published on the websites of the State Agency of National Security and the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance. The arrangements for implementing measures in accordance with the guidelines under art. 18 (4) of Directive (EU) 2015/849, persons from those countries shall be subject to the rules of application of the law. (4) Based on the risk assessment under Chapter 7, the persons referred to in art. 4 assess the need to apply the measures for extended due diligence by their branches or subsidiaries located in countries listed under para. 3 where those branches or subsidiaries comply fully with the policies and procedures within the group in accordance with that law. (5) The Director of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security may issue instructions to the persons under art. 4 for the implementation of measures for extended due diligence and to persons from countries outside the list under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u174	Are there any statements on the reported texts? I can't see. We are going to vote on the texts of art. 42 as amended by the Commission, art. Art. 43, Art. Art. 44, Art. 45 according to the report of the importer, and art. 46 as proposed by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 85, against 2, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u175	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Art. 47. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 place under ongoing and extended surveillance all complex or abnormally large transactions or operations, as well as all transactions and transactions which have no apparent economic or legal purpose which can be established in view of the information available to the person under art. 4 or do not correspond to the available customer information. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 persons under art. 4 carry out an assessment of transactions and transactions on the basis of the information collected on their nature, their compliance with the normal activity of the client and its subject-matter, the size of the transactions and transactions, their frequency, the financial situation of the client, the payment means used, and other indicators typical of the type of activity concerned. (3) When establishing transactions or operations under para. 1 persons under art. 4 collect information on the essential elements and sizes of the operation or transaction, relevant documents and other identification data. The persons referred to in art. 4 document their assessment of the availability of reporting conditions under art. 72 as a result of the information collected. (4) The information collected for the purposes of this Article shall be documented and kept so as to be available to the Directorate-General for Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security, to the relevant supervisory authorities and to the auditors. The documentation shall be made available to the Department of Financial Intelligence and to the State Agency of National Security upon request in an original or official certified copy within the time limit set by the Director of the Directorate. In determining the time limit, the Director of the Directorate shall take into account the volume and content of the information requested. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Art. 47. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 place under ongoing and extended surveillance all complex or abnormally large transactions or operations, as well as all transactions and transactions which have no apparent economic or legal purpose which can be established in view of the information available to the person under art. 4 or do not correspond to the available customer information. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 persons under art. 4 carry out an assessment of transactions and transactions on the basis of the information collected on their nature, their compliance with the normal activity of the client and its subject-matter, the value of transactions and transactions, their frequency, the financial situation of the client, the payment means used, and other indicators typical of the type of activity concerned. (3) When establishing transactions or operations under para. 1 persons under art. 4 collect information on the essential elements and the value of the operation or transaction, relevant documents and other identification data. The persons referred to in art. 4 document their assessment of the availability of reporting conditions under art. 72 as a result of the information collected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, and in it the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, and in it the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u176	Are there any statements on the reported texts of art. Art. 47, Art. 50, including? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 47 as proposed by the Commission, art. 48 according to the Importer Report, art. 49 as amended, proposed by the Commission, and art. 50, as amended by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u177	Under art. 51, para. 1 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 51: Art. 51. (1) In order to limit the risks identified in the national risk assessment, the supranational risk assessment and the risk assessment carried out by the persons under art. 4 additional measures for extended complex customer verification may be applied under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Law Enforcement. (2) The additional measures under para. 1 must comply with: 1. guidelines, decisions or documents adopted by European Union institutions in accordance with the requirements laid down in Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015; 2. measures assessed as appropriate by the Group for Financial Action against Money Laundering (FATF) or international organisations with competence to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing; 3. the size and nature of the activity with a view to ensuring proportionality in their application.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u178	Are there any speeches on the proposed text for art. 51? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u179	"Department V. Identification of customers and verification of identification. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52 Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the people's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments shall be made: "1." ) (a.k.a. 7 is amended as follows: Where the identification is carried out without the presence of the natural person to be identified, the identification may be carried out through the notarized power of attorney containing the identity of the author under para. 2, p. 3. In the case of foreign natural persons or Bulgarian natural persons residing in the territory of a third country, the identification may be made through the presentation of a power of attorney or concluded contract certified by a consular service and accompanied by an apostille.' 2. para. Eight o'clock is out. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and does not support it by t. 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: Art. 53. (1) The identification of natural persons shall be carried out by submitting an official identification document and removing a copy thereof. (2) When identifying natural persons, data shall be collected for: 1. the names; 2. the date and place of birth; 3. an official personal identification number or other unique identification element contained in an official identification document whose validity period has not expired and on which there is a photo of the client; 4. any nationality that the person holds; 5. State of permanent residence and address (mail box number is not sufficient). (3) Data on the professional activity of the person and the purpose and nature of the participation of the person in the business relationship by using documents, data or information from a reliable and independent source, filling in a questionnaire or by other appropriate means shall also be collected upon entering into business relationships. (4) Based on the risk assessment under Chapter 7, the persons referred to in art. 4 may collect additional data under the terms and conditions of the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (5) Where the official identification document does not contain all the data under para. 2, the collection of missing data shall be carried out by submitting other official identification documents or other official personal documents whose validity period has not expired and on which there is a photo of the client and the removal of a copy thereof. (6) In the absence of another possibility, the collection of the data under para. 2, p. 3 and 5 can also be done by submitting other official documents or documents from a reliable and independent source. (7) Where the identification is carried out without the presence of the natural person to be identified, the identification may also be carried out by submitting a copy of an official identification document. In such cases, the verification of the collected identification data shall be carried out in accordance with art. 55, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u180	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I see we've reached an agreement on this. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 8 drop out, which is good. I'm only gonna do a motivation for para. 7. Why do we propose to amend our proposals, namely to allow the verification to be carried out through a notarized power of attorney containing the credentials of the author and so on? The state has legally assigned notaries to carry out certain actions, and one of them is the identification of the author concerned. Notaries have access to the Ministry of Interior database and perform this check. I do not see why it should be done with a legislative act, such as the Implementing Rules, and not with the higher act, which is by rank, namely the Law. We are constantly talking about the current legislation and how it should be synchronized with the rest. Here we have a visual example and we have the opportunity to synchronize this bill with the Notary Act and the rest of our current legislation, for which I ask you to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u182	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches on the text discussed? I won't. We are going to vote first on the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov in the part not supported by the Commission. ) (a.k.a. 1 of this proposal relating to para. 7, they proposed an amendment. They voted 94 MPs: 22, against 53, abstentioned 19. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 53 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. The proposal for a title of Section V and the text of the Commission of art. 52. We are going to vote on the title and on the text of art. 52. 90 MPs voted: 75, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We shall continue with the Report........................................................................................ 54. Mr. Nunev, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u183	Article 53 has not been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u184	We voted, we just changed the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u185	Under art. 54, para. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: Art. 54. (1) The identification of legal persons and other legal entities shall be carried out by presenting an original or notary certified copy of an official extract from the relevant register of their current status and a certified copy of the founding contract, the founding act or any other document necessary to establish the data under para. 4. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 23, para. 6 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and in the presence of an official public trade or company register in a Member State where the legal person is registered, the identification of legal persons shall be carried out by consulting the Commercial Register or in the relevant public register on the account of the legal person and documenting the actions taken to identify. The procedures for documenting the actions taken shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Where the data necessary for the identification of a legal person do not fall within the scope of the circumstances to be entered in the trade register or in the relevant public register are not publicly available or the actions taken are not documented, their collection shall be carried out in accordance with this Section and the Rules implementing the law. (3) When identifying legal persons and other legal entities, the persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to establish the structure of ownership, management and control of the client, a legal person or other legal entity. (4) Data on the identification of legal persons and other legal entities shall be collected for: 1. the name; 2. the legal organizational form; 3. the seat; 4. the address of the management; 5. address for correspondence; 6. the current subject of activity or the purpose and nature of the business relationship or of the incidental operation or transaction; 7. the period of existence; 8. control bodies, management and representation bodies; 9. the type and composition of the collective management body; 10. the main place of business. (5) When in the documents under para. 1 and 2 do not contain the data under para. 4, their collection shall be carried out by presentation of other official documents. (6) Where a particular activity is subject to licensing, authorisation or registration, clients entering into business relationships or carrying out transactions or transactions with or through a person under art. 4 in relation to this activity, provide a certified copy of the licence, authorisation or registration certificate concerned. (7) As regards the legal representatives of a client, a legal person or other legal entity, agents and other natural persons, who are subject to identification in relation to the identification of a client, a legal person or other legal entity, shall apply art. 53. Where measures resulting from the national risk assessment and guidance are necessary, decisions or documents adopted by European Union institutions in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/849 may also apply requirements and exceptions to that rule under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of application of the law. Under art. 55, para. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 55, para. The second sentence is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: Art. 55. (1) The verification of the collected according to the order of art. 52 s 54 identification data shall be made using one or more of the following means: 1. requirement of additional documents; 2. confirmation of the identification by another person under art. 4 or by a person obliged to apply measures against money laundering in another Member State or in a third country under art. 27; 3. making inquiries on electronic pages and databases of local and foreign competent state and other bodies made available for public use for the purpose of verifying the validity of identity documents and other personal documents or the verification of other data collected during identification; 4. making inquiries in publicly accessible local and foreign official trade, company, company and other registers; 5. use of technical means to verify the authenticity of the documents presented; 6. establishing a requirement that the first payment of the transaction or transaction be made through an account opened in the name of the client, in a credit institution from the Republic of Bulgaria, from another Member State or from a bank from a third country under art. 27; 7. re-requirement of documents submitted when carrying out the identification and verification of the existence of a change in the identification data in the course of the business relationship already established, where the identification was carried out at the time of entry into such relations; 8. another way that gives reason to the person under art. 4 to accept the identification of the client as reliable. (2) When establishing business relationships or carrying out a random operation or transaction by electronic statement, electronic document or electronic signature, or by other form without the presence of the client, the persons under art. 4 check the collected identification data using two or more of the methods under para. 1. The terms and procedure for implementing the authentication measures of the client's identification data shall be laid down by the Rules implementing the law. (3) The persons under para. 1 and 2 actions shall be documented and the documents for the verification of identification shall contain information on the date and time of the action taken under para. 1 as well as the names and position of the person who committed them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u186	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any statements on the reported texts of art. Art. 54, Art. 55? There aren't any. I will put the two texts to a separate vote. In the second there are proposals from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Boychev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov. Vote art. 54 in the version of the Commission. [[Noise and lines. Some of the MPs failed to vote because of a problem in the system.]] We will proceed to a new attempt to vote on the text of art. 54 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 78 against 8, abstention 7. The proposal for the text of art. 54 is accepted. Under art. 55 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, which I put to the vote. Vote 96 MPs: 21, against 65, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 55 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u187	Vote 85 MPs: 74 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u188	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 56 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in a sentence first, and in t. 1 and 2 after the word "institution" shall be added a person under art. 4 t. 5,8 "11 ". (b) t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." on request the credit institution or persons under art. 4 t. 5, 8 - 11 who have performed a previous identification are obliged to provide immediately to the person referring to that identification, certified copies of the documents referred to in paragraph 1. 2. 2. in para. 2 after the word "institution" shall be added a person under art. 4 t. 5, 8 "11" and after the word "same" a comma is added to the list. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1 "3, 5 and 8 " 11" may refer to a previous customer identification carried out by a credit institution for the purposes of art. 10, t. 1 and 2, in the case of the following cumulative conditions: 1. the registered office of the issuing credit institution shall be in the Republic of Bulgaria, in another Member State or in a third country under art. 27; 2. the required under art. 55 information is available to the person who refers to a previous identification made by the credit institution and can be obtained immediately upon request copies of the documents under art. 53, para. Art. 1 and 4 54, para. 1, 2 and 5 55, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 59, para. 1; 3. upon request, the credit institution having previously identified may provide, within three days, to the person referring to that identification, certified copies of the documents under point 3. 2. (2) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1 "3, 5 and 8 " 11 cannot rely on prior customer identification by a credit institution of a high risk third country under art. 46, para. 3. (3) The reference to previous identification under para. 1 shall not exempt the applicant from liability for non-compliance with the requirements for implementing the measures for complex verification of the client under art. 10, t. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u189	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 21, against 63, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 56. They voted 83 MPs: 69 against 9, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57 as in it, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 10, t. One and two. A proposal from the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u191	I say we stop here because we're in danger of making a mistake without art. 58, Mr. Nunev. Thank you. Statements under art. 57? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 57 with the replacement that the Commission proposes in it. 90 MPs voted: 76, against 1, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u192	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov. Article 58 is hereby repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: Art. 58. Where the national risk assessment, the supranational risk assessment and the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authorities pursuant to art. 17 and 18 (4) of Directive (EU) 2015/849 justify requirements and exceptions to the rules for referring to prior customer identification, they shall apply under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u193	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 16 against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 58. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u194	"Department VI" "Identifying the actual owners and checking their identification." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u195	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section VI, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u196	Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in the sentence first, the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. in t. 1, at the end of the text, after the words "art." Art. 63 and Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 63, Art. 3. t. 3... is The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and does not support it by t. 1 and 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The identification of any natural person who is the actual owner of a client, a legal person or other legal entity shall be carried out by the collection of: 1. a reference to the relevant register under art. Article 63 and the documents referred to in Article 63 64; 2. the documents and the references under art. 54, para. 1 and 2 as well as other documents showing the actual owner, the nature and type of ownership or control pursuant to § 2 of the Additional Provisions, and there is no doubt that the person for whom information has been received under paragraph 1. 1, is the actual actual owner; 3. a statement from the legal representative or from the legal person's agent. (2) For each natural person who is the actual owner of a client, a legal person or other legal entity shall be collected under art. 53, para. 2. (3) The form and order for submission of the declaration under para. 1, t. 3 shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) For clients, the shares of which are traded on a regulated market which are subject to disclosure requirements in accordance with European Union law or equivalent international standards providing an adequate degree of transparency in terms of ownership shall be collected information on the shareholding subject to disclosure under Chapter 11, Section I of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, or similar information on companies on a regulated market outside the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u197	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov in the part not supported by the Commission, namely points 1 and 3. Vote 87 MPs: 14 against 66 abstentions 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 59. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, in which the words of the performance are replaced by the performance. Under art. 61 there is a proposal made by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 61: Art. 61. (1) Legal persons established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and other legal entities and natural persons for contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 are obliged to receive, have and provide, in the cases laid down by law, adequate, accurate and up-to-date information on natural persons who are their actual owners, including details of their rights. (2) When the persons referred to in art. 4 take measures for complex customer verification in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing rules, legal persons established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and other legal entities entering into business relationships or carrying out a random operation or transaction with or through them, and the natural persons for contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 are obliged to provide the persons under art. 4 information concerning its actual owners required by this law. (3) The legal persons established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and other legal entities and natural persons for contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 provide on request the information under para. 1 of the Directorate-General for Financial Intelligence and the competent authorities of the State Agency for National Security under this law within the time limit laid down by them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u199	Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. First text of the importer for art. 60, with the replacement which the Commission proposes in the text of Article 60. 60. Second text is the version which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 61. Vote 89 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u200	Under art. 62 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: Art. 62. (1) Natural and legal persons and other legal entities acting in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as trust owners of trusts, trust funds and other similar foreign legal entities established and existing under the law of the jurisdictions allowing such forms of trust property and natural persons to contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 are obliged to receive and have adequate, accurate and up-to-date information on individuals who are genuine owners of trust property. (2) When the persons referred to in art. 4 take measures for complex checking of the client in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing rules, the persons under para. 1 which, as trusted owners, engage in business relationships or engage in a random operation or transaction with or through them, and the natural persons for contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 are obliged to provide the persons under art. 4 information on the actual owners of trusts required by this law. (3) Natural and legal persons and other legal entities acting in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as trust owners of trusts, trust funds and other similar foreign legal entities established and existing in accordance with the law of the jurisdictions allowing such forms of trust property and the natural persons for contact under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 provide on request the information under para. 1 of the Directorate-General for Financial Intelligence and the competent authorities of the State Agency for National Security under this law within the time limit laid down by them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: Art. 63. (1) Information and data under art. 61, para. 1 shall be entered on the accounts of legal entities established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and other legal entities in the trade register, in the register of non-profit legal entities and in the BULSTAT register. (2) Information and data under art. 62, para. 1 shall be entered in the BULSTAT registry. (3) The Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and the BULSTAT Registry shall apply respectively to the proceedings, order and time limits for the entry of circumstances concerning the actual owners. (4) The following particulars shall be entered in the relevant register according to a declaration, the form and content of which shall be determined by the Rules of Application of the Law: 1. the identity of the actual owners of the natural persons, including: (a) the names; (b) citizenship; (c) the single civil number for the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on Civil Registration; (d) the date of birth for persons other than those referred to in point (c); (e) the country of residence, if different from the Republic of Bulgaria or from the State referred to in point (b); 2. the details of legal persons or other legal entities through which directly or indirectly control the persons referred to in art. 61, para. 1 and under art. 62, para. 1, including a company, national register number, legal form according to national law, registered office and management address and identification details under point (a) of paragraph 1. 1 for the representing persons; 3. the data under point 3. 1 letter (s) to a contact person resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, where, on the account of the person referred to in art. 61, para. Art. 1, respectively 62, para. 1 no details of a resident resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are entered. 4. any change in the circumstances under point 4. 3. (5) The details of the actual owners shall be entered if they are not entered on any other basis in the cases or accounts of legal persons or other legal entities in the relevant register as individuals who are sole owners or partners with at least 25 per cent ownership. Where the actual owners are natural persons other than those entered in the first sentence and falling within the scope of § 2 of the Additional Provisions on grounds other than the direct holding of shares, the particulars of them shall be entered in the relevant register. (6) Direct access to information and data under para. 1, 2 and 4 have: 1. Directorate of Finance Intelligence. of the State Agency of National Security, the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission and the competent state authorities under this law; 2. the persons referred to in art. In the context of carrying out a complex customer verification in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing rules. (7) The conditions and arrangements for access to the information and data under para. 1, 2 and 4 shall be governed by the relevant special laws. (8) The Department of Finance Intelligence and the Department of the State Agency of National Security, the supervisory authorities, the Ministry of Interior, the National Revenue Agency, the Registry Agency and the administrations competent to carry out general control over the persons for whom an obligation to enter under this article arises shall exchange information for the purposes of art. 123. (9) The persons referred to in art. 4 provide information to the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency "National Security" when, in the performance of their duties under this section, they establish evidence of an infringement under para. 1 "5" committed by a client who is a person under art. 61, para. 1 or under art. 62, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u201	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. First text of the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 62. Second text of the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 63. Vote 85 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u202	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 64: Art. 64. The client shall provide a certificate, contract or other valid document in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which they are registered, out of a central register or from a registration agent showing who the actual owners of the client are or any other legal entity. Under art. 65 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 65: Art. 65. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to establish whether the customer acts on his behalf and on his own account, or on behalf of and/or on behalf of a third party. Where the operation or transaction is carried out through a representative, the persons referred to in art. 4 require evidence of the representative authority and identify the representative and representatives. (2) Where the operation or transaction is carried out on behalf and/or on behalf of a third party without authorisation, the persons under art. 4 carry out identification and verification of the identity of the third party, on behalf of and/or on behalf of which the operation or transaction was carried out, and the person who performed the operation or transaction. (3) In the event of doubt that the person who carries out an operation or transaction does not act on his own behalf and on his own account, the persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to carry out the notification under art. 72 and take appropriate measures to collect information to identify and verify the identity of the person for whom the operation or transaction is actually carried out. The arrangements for implementing the measures shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u203	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first text is the version which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 64. Second text of the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 65. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u204	"Department VII" "Declaration of the origin of the funds". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, as in para. 1, t. 3 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u205	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: first is the text of the importer on the name of Section VII, which is supported by the Commission; second is the text of the importer for art. 66 with the replacement which the Commission proposes in the text of para. 1, t. 3. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u206	"Chapter 3 "Searching of information and statistics ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I" "Requirement of information". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67, as in para. 1 the words "the law and its implementing rules" shall be replaced by "the law and its implementing rules" and in para. 6 the words "up to seven years' shall be replaced by "with no more than two years'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u207	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the first text of the applicant for the name of Chapter Three, which shall be supported by the Commission; the second text of the applicant for the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission; the third text of the applicant for art. 67 with the proposed by the Commission replaces in the text of Art. 67. 67. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u208	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following editorial art. 68: Art. 68. (1) All documents, data and information collected and drawn up in accordance with this Law and the Rules for its implementation, including related to the establishment or maintenance of business relationships shall be kept at the disposal of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security, of the relevant supervisory authorities and of the auditors. The same shall be made available to the Department of Financial Intelligence and to the State Agency of National Security upon request in original, official certified copy, extract or reference in the deadline and format defined by the Director of the Directorate. In determining the time limit, the Director of the Directorate shall take into account the volume and content of the information requested. (2) All collected and drawn up under this Law and its Rules of Application shall be kept by the person under art. 4 so as to carry out its activities without delay and its duties under this law and its implementing rules. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. The information, documents and particulars of individual transactions and transactions and clients must be kept in such a way as to allow their timely recovery if they are to be provided for use as evidence in judicial and pre-trial proceedings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u209	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the first text of the speaker in the version proposed by the Commission for a text of art. 68; second text of the version proposed by the Commission as a text of art. 69, and the third text of the applicant for art. 70, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. 86 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u210	"Department II" The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: Art. 71. (1) For the purpose of carrying out a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Office of Customs and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security, the competent specialized departments of the State Agency of National Security, the supervisory authorities and other state bodies and institutions with separate powers in the field of prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing maintain statistical data on issues relating to the effectiveness of the prevention and prevention of money laundering and/or terrorist financing. (2) The statistics under para. 1 shall include the following indicators within the competence of the institution, body or service concerned: 1. data measuring the size and importance of the sectors to which the persons under art. 4, including the number of legal and natural persons engaged in economic activity and the economic importance of each sector; 2. data assessing the stages of verification, investigation and judicial proceedings in cases of money laundering and terrorist financing, including the number of checks carried out by law enforcement authorities on an annual basis, the number of cases investigated on an annual basis, the number of persons against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated, the number of persons convicted of money laundering or terrorist financing, the types of predestined crimes, if available, and the value of the property which has been frozen or banned, seized or confiscated, calculated in monetary equivalence in BGN; 3. data assessing the reporting stages of cases of money laundering and terrorist financing, including the number of notifications of suspicious transactions and operations submitted to the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, the follow-up of these reports, and the number of cases where information has been disclosed to the Prosecutor's Office or the Security and Public Order, including data or some of the data contained in the notifications of suspicious transactions and operations submitted to the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security; 4. data establishing the number and percentage of notifications under point 4. 3 leading to a subsequent investigation, if available; 5. data on the number of cross-border requests for information that have been made, received, rejected by the Directorate-General of Finance Intelligence (FMI) of the State Agency (National Security) and to which the Directorate has responded in part or in full; 6. details of the number of cross-border requests for information made, received, rejected by the authorities, institutions and services under para. 1 and to which they have responded partially or entirely. (3) The data under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 4 and 6 shall be made available to the Department of Finance Intelligence and to the State Agency of National Security on an annual basis by the end of February of the year following the year to which they relate, and upon request in relation to monitoring by an international body or institution having competence in the field of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing. (4) The data under para. 2 shall be published. The terms, procedure and format for providing the data under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 4 and 6 and for publication of the data under para. 2 shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (5) The data under para. 2 shall be made available to the European Commission under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u211	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: the first text of the applicant for the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission; the second text, which the Commission proposes in the text of Article II. 71. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 89 against 1, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u212	"Chapter 4" "Disclosure of Information." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Four. "Section I "Discovering information in the event of suspicion of money laundering. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72: Art. 72. (1) In case of doubt and/or knowledge of money laundering and/or of the existence of means of criminal origin, the persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to immediately notify the Financial Intelligence Directorate to the State Agency before carrying out the operation or transaction by delaying its implementation within the time limit under the regulations governing the relevant activity. In the notification, the persons referred to in art. 4 specify the maximum period within which the operation or transaction may be postponed. In the case of knowledge of money laundering or of the existence of means of criminal origin, the persons referred to in art. 4 also notify the competent authorities according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Ministry of Interior Act and the State Agency Act. (2) When the delay of the operation or transaction under para. 1 is objectively impossible or is likely to thwart actions in pursuit of the beneficiaries of a dubious transaction or operation, the person referred to in art. 4 informs the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the Department of the State Agency of National Security as soon as it is carried out, indicating the reasons why the delay was impossible. (3) The notification of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence shall also be made by officials of the persons under art. 4 not responsible for implementing measures against money laundering. The department retains the anonymity of these employees. (4) The Department of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall provide to the person under art. 4 information relating to the notification made by him. The decision on the volume of information to be provided back for each specific notification case shall be taken by the Director of the Directorate. (5) The obligation under para. 1 occurs also in cases where the operation or transaction has not been completed. (6) Information on the reporting of doubt under para. 1 shall be exchanged within the group, unless the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security gives no other instructions within the period under para. 1. (7) Information on the reporting of doubt under para. 2 shall be exchanged within the group unless the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security gives no other instructions. (8) The form and order for the submission of the notification under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the Rules of Application of the Law. (9) Alinei 1 s 8 shall not apply by the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 15 only in respect of the information received by or concerning any of their clients in the process of establishing their legal position or in the case of the protection or representation of that client in or in the event of judicial or pre-trial proceedings pending, is to be initiated or terminated, including when providing legal advice for the formation or avoidance of such proceedings, whether that information has been obtained before, during or after the proceedings have been concluded. This exception shall not apply where the person under art. 4 t. 15 participate in money laundering or terrorist financing activities, legal advice shall be given for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing or the person under art. 4 t. 15 knows that the client is seeking legal advice for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u213	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? No speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Four, which shall be supported by the Commission; the text of the importer on the name of Section One, which shall be supported by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 72. Vote 95 MPs: 86, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u214	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 74: Art. 74. (1) Upon receipt of notification under art. 72, 88 and 89 and upon request under art. 90 Directorate of Finance Intelligence............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4, except for the Bulgarian National Bank and credit institutions operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, information on suspicious transactions, transactions or clients. (2) Upon written notification under art. 72, 88 and 89 and upon request under art. 90 Directorate of Finance Intelligence and Information on suspicious operations, transactions or clients can be requested from the Bulgarian National Bank and the credit institutions operating on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) When the analysis of received by order of art. 76, 77 and 78 information raises doubts about money laundering, Department of Finance Intelligence and State Agency of National Security. 4 information on suspicious operations, transactions or clients. The analysis of this information shall be carried out under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) In the cases under para. 1 " 3 Directorate of Finance Intelligence" of the State Agency "National Security" may request information from the state and municipal authorities that cannot be denied it. (5) The information under para. The request shall be made available within three working days of receipt of the request. The Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security may also set another deadline for providing the information, taking into account the volume and content of the requested information. (6) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1 " and 3 " and 7 " 10 " provide the requested under para. 3 information on electronic medium or via a secure electronic exchange channel. The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall determine the form in which the information is provided. (7) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 Directorate of Financial Intelligence........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 on the monitoring of transactions or transactions carried out in the framework of the business relationship for a specific period and on the provision of information on the same to the Directorate. The decision on the monitoring period and on the type of transactions and transactions for which information is provided shall be taken on a case-by-case basis by the Director of the Directorate. (8) For the purposes of the analysis, the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security and Security may receive information collected by the Bulgarian National Bank under the Order of the Currency Act. (9) For the purposes of the analysis the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall have access to the electronic information system under art. 56a of the Credit Institutions Act. (10) For the purposes of the analysis, the Directorate-General for Financial Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security shall receive free access to informational arrays built and maintained by state and municipal authorities. (11) The provision of information under para. 1. 10 cannot be refused or restricted for reasons of professional, banking, commercial or professional secrecy or that it constitutes tax and security information or protected personal information. (12) Alinei 1 and 3 shall not apply by the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 15 only in respect of the information received by or concerning any of their clients in the process of establishing their legal position or in the case of the protection or representation of that client in or in the event of judicial or pre-trial proceedings pending, is to be initiated or terminated, including when providing legal advice for the formation or avoidance of such proceedings, whether that information has been obtained before, during or after the proceedings have been concluded. This exception shall not apply where the person under art. 4 t. 15 participate in money laundering or terrorist financing activities, legal advice shall be given for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing or the person under art. 4 t. 15 knows that the client is seeking legal advice for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u215	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 73, which shall be supported by the Commission and the version which the Commission shall propose to the text of art. 74. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u216	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75: Art. 75. (1) When the investigation and analysis of the information obtained under the terms and conditions of this law reveals the suspicion of money laundering and/or related pre-crime crimes, the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall disclose this information to the Prosecutor's Office, to the relevant Security or Public Order Office or to the specialized Directorate of the State Agency of National Security in accordance with their competence, as well as to the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, preserving the anonymity of the person under art. 4 of the organ referred to in art. 88 or on the person referred to in art. 89 and to their employees who have made the notification under art. 72, 88 or 89. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency shall respond to motivated requests for information to the relevant Security Office or Public Order, to the competent specialized Directorate of the State Agency or to the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property where these claims are based on doubts about money laundering or related pre-crime crimes. (3) Where necessary for the purposes of prevention of money laundering, the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall provide the competent specialized departments of the State Agency of National Security and of the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry of the Interior with the possibility of carrying out a search in a register of persons reported for the carrying out of questionable cash transfers and mail transfers containing names data and, where available, the date of birth of the person. Upon request, where these requests are based on doubts about money laundering or related pre-crime crimes, the Directorate shall provide the full information available subject to the conditions laid down in para. 1. The competent authorities having access to this information shall keep detailed records of the checks carried out and provide that information for the preparation of the annual report under art. 132, para. 3 of the State Agency Act "National Security." (4) The Prosecutor's Office, the relevant Security Office or the Public Order, the competent specialized directorate of the State Agency "National Security" or the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property received information from the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency under the order of para. 1. 3 provide the Directorate with feedback on how the information provided was used, on how it was directed to another competent authority or institution, as well as on the results of investigations or inspections carried out on the basis of that information, including on pre-trial proceedings. (5) The information provided by the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security. 1 " 3" is a business secret within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act if it is not classified as state secret within the meaning of the same law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u217	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 75. Vote 94 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u218	"Section II.. Disclosure of other The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79: Art. 79. (1) The provision of information in the cases referred to in art. Art. 72, Art. Art. 74, Art. 76 "78," art. 103, para. Art. 2, Art. No. 104, para. Art. 2, Art. 106, para. Art. 5, art. 107, para. Art. 4 and art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 may also be carried out electronically with a qualified electronic signature or with a certificate of access issued by the State Agency. Upon receipt of the information, an entry number and date shall be automatically issued and sent to the sender by e-mail. (2) The terms and conditions of issue and use of the certificate of access under para. 1, the types of documents and data that can be submitted by using a qualified electronic signature or access certificate and the order for their submission by electronic means shall be determined by written instructions of the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. The instructions shall be published on the website of the State Agency "National Security." (3) The exchange of information in accordance with art. 73, 75, 87 and 88 may be carried out through secure electronic communications channels subject to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-08.u219	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Section Two, which shall be supported by the importer; the text of the importer for art. 76, which shall be supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 77, supported by the Commission, the text of the importer for art. 78, supported by the Commission, the version proposed by the Commission to the text for art. 79. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted. Before closing today's meeting, parliamentary control announcements on 9 March 2018, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from the MP Petar Vitanov and a question from the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Tsvetan Topchiev; and Rumen Gechev. 3. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. 4. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 5. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov. 6. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer nine questions from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov; Dimitar Stoyanov stwo questions; Petar Hristov Petrov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski; Pencho Milkov; Georgi Gokov; Krasimir Yankov; and Hristo Prodanov and Dimitar Danchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions from the MPs Dragomir Stoynev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Milko Nedyalkov; and Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question written by the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Grudev; and to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov; and Rumen Gechev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to four questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Nikolay Penev, Ilian Timchev and Kristian Vigenin; Georgi Gokov; Georgi Yordanov; and Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev; and to two questions written by the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski; and Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva and Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov are unable to participate in the Parliamentary Control meeting because of their commitment to a planned meeting in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. The next regular plenary session will be on 9 March 2018 at 9:00, according to the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
