ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please take your seats! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, there is a decision of the Central Election Commission No 5148 of 6 December 2018 to announce Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as a Member of the National Assembly from the 15th Election Region. "With a letter with an inch. No NS-02-8 of 5 December 2018 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 5 December 2018, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski as a MP from the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, erected from the list of political party GERB in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The next candidate on GERB's list from the list is Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska. By decision of the National Assembly of 4 May 2017, Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska was elected Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why she cannot be declared a MP at the place of resigning Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski. The possibility of announcing a candidate for MP Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska would arise if it ceased to serve as a minister. The next candidate on the list of GERB party after Tsetska Tsacheva is Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva. The declaration of Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as MP should be carried out under the terms of Decision No 4750-NS of 25 May 2017 of the CEC. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 and para. 4 of the Election Code, the Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED He announced Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva with the respective EGN as a representative in the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB from the Fifteenth Election Region. "Plevenski, for the time Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska performs the functions of Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Please invite Mrs. Dobreva for an oath. Please stand up, colleagues. [[Everyone gets up.]] Repeat after me, Mrs. Dobreva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PREMIUM OF AND THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF UNION AND OF ARMAL FORES. Report from the Defence Committee........................... General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure for access to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krassimir Tsipov and the Director of the Legal and Normal Activity Directorate of the Ministry of Defence...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u5	We are voting on a tolerance procedure. Vote 138 MPs: 133, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors in. Start with the report, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u6	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. At a meeting held on 22 November 2018, the Defence Committee examined, for a first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. In the meeting of the Ministry of Defence participated: Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Clementina Deneva From the Ministry of Interior participated: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov and Svetoslav Belemezov. The President of the Defence Committee Konstantin Popov pointed out that the bill was approved by decision No 790 of the Council of Ministers of 5 November 2018 and was submitted on the basis of art. 87, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. The Bill provides for the creation of a quick and easy mechanism for the settlement of the residence of foreign NATO servicemen, the civilian component and their dependents working in the structures of the Alliance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until there is a technical opportunity... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u7	General, I'm sorry. Let's ask for silence in the room. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Quiet and order, please! REPORT CONSTANTIN POPOV:...for issuing cards, as required by the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, a map of an employee in the structure of NATO and of a dependent person of such an employee. According to the changes, the Ministry of Defence will provide the necessary information by letter to the Ministry of Interior for issuing the permits and residence certificates. The Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov noted that the creation of the new type of Bulgarian personal document in question follows not only from the legislation of the country, but also from a ratified by law and an international treaty entered into force. Blanca is scheduled to be prepared in the course of a procedure for the selection of a contractor for the implementation of a Model for Centralized Customization of Bulgarian Personal Documents generation 2019 approved by the Council of Ministers. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Petar Bethanov asked whether the deadline provided for in the bill would be sufficient to move on to the new documents. National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov pointed out that he would support the Bill with the understanding that conditions should be created for fulfilling the Union commitments and showed interest why the changes were not proposed at an earlier stage. In response to the questions asked, Deputy Minister Tzipov pointed out that a number of working meetings were held between representatives of the two ministries to coordinate the proposed changes and the issuance of this kind of documents can begin in 2020 after a public procurement and commissioning of the new system for issuing Bulgarian personal documents. In the following vote, with 17 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. General. An Internal Security and Public Order Committee report came in. You're welcome to introduce us to the report. You have the floor, we're listening, Mr. Tonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. At its meeting held on 14 November 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov and the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior Krasimir Tsipov. In their exhibition they noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces were caused by the adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which introduces a new document This new kind of personal document follows not only from the legislation of the country, but also from a ratified by law and entered into force international treaty, namely the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander for the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pc. 87 of 31 October 2017. The Agreement provides for the Republic of Bulgaria to provide the necessary documents to verify the stay and status of the members of the Union Command and their dependents throughout the period of appointment and/or recruitment in that Command. At the same time, there is a practical inability to issue such a document at present. The reason is that in 2016 there is a contract for delivery of forms for Bulgarian personal documents and no form for NATO employees and dependents is provided. Such a form will be prepared after a public procurement procedure is carried out and the issue of this kind of document can begin at the earliest in mid-2020 after the new system for issuing Bulgarian personal documents is put into service. Until the new documents are issued, the Bill provides for order to be established for the registration of these persons. Therefore, an amendment and supplement of the Law on residence through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to allied and/or foreign armed forces is proposed and is repealed. 40 of the Law to the extent that the residence of persons will be certified in accordance with the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and in particular the issuance of a map to an employee in a NATO structure and to a dependent person, and to such an employee. There are also amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families and the Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. A transitional provision is established in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, under which, pending the provision of technical and organisational conditions for issuing a map of NATO employees, servicemen and members of the civilian component of a structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria and their dependents, permission or residence certificate is issued. The Ministry of Defence shall provide the necessary information by letter to the Ministry of Interior for issuing the permits and residence certificates. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 15 votes for abstentions and abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. There are no reports from other committees. We move on to the debates on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers. I'm opening the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to what we are looking at today. I would like to recall the title of the Bill: the Act for amendment and supplement to the Law for passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. The bill is basically one member. It is interesting to me how another member of this bill has come into the Council of Ministers on the portal for public discussions. The bill was submitted just a few days ago to the National Assembly "Twenty days ago," and has moved very quickly to today's vote in the Parliamentary Hall. This aroused my interest, and I therefore draw attention to § 3, which changes in the "Transitional and Final Provisions." It is surprisingly concerning the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Suddenly another postponement of the entry into force of several paragraphs of the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act with another year appeared. I would recall that the entry into force of these paragraphs, which concern the introduction of electronic identity and the issuance of ID cards, of personal documents with electronic identity embedded in them, was initially postponed for 1 January 2019 and now, with the proposed change, the government is proposing that we postpone it for 2020. Colleagues, I wonder if anyone could stand up and explain how this change occurred in this law that we are looking at today? Isn't there a little inconvenience from what's going on? The government has been telling us for almost two years that the introduction of electronic governance is a priority, but at the same time the key to e-government, electronic identity and its entry into action has been postponed once again. By the way, a few weeks ago there was a question from a colleague from the parliamentary group of GERB.. I think it was Mr. Nenkov who asked Minister Tomislav Donchev about the progress on the exchange of electronic documents within the state administration. It has been claimed that almost 700 administrations or almost 90% of all administrations have already exchanged electronic documents. However, I ask myself, has anyone examined the question of how these documents are signed when there is no electronic identity? Who signs them and how does the signing and exchange of these electronic documents really happen? And does anyone remember that, under Regulation 910/2014, these electronic documents exchanged by the administration must also be stamped with an electronic seal? None of this is happening. On the other hand, the government offers us to postpone once again the entry into force of the part of the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act with another year and to sabotage the entry into force of the electronic identification. Where did the electronic control go? Let one of the government stand up and defend why the entry into force of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents in its electronic identification part is now postponed once again. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Danchev! There's no one to get up and tell you. Here on this stage [[direct the seat where the ministers sit]] There's no one here. There is no Mr. Tomislav Donchev who one year ago explained to you how e-government is a priority, how all municipalities, all administrations will be connected, how this is the number one task of the government of GERB and the Patriots. Except, like all of their work, you have electronic control, but you don't have an electronic signature. So when will this electronic control start when we postpone the electronic identification again?! I fully support you for the vicious path of the legislation in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, we are changing the Personal Data Act, with which we postpone e-government. Absolutely wicked rule! Since I see that Mr. Tzipov is the only representative of the Council of Ministers, it is probably really nice to come and answer whether he supports these texts and should they be in this bill. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Svilensky! I am really surprised at this parliamentary legislative practice to introduce proposals by the Council of Ministers that are not subject to discussion. From a formal point of view, this is probably not a problem, but they have not been subjected to public discussion on the Council of Ministers' website, and today we are inserting them, looking at them, voting them in a quick hand. But do we really realize? Is there an established practice for the exchange of electronic documents in the public administration? There is, but unfortunately it is against the law because it is clearly said that the electronic documents that exchange the administration must be signed by electronic signature and stamped with electronic printing. By the way, I would remind you that a year ago we proposed a change in the Law. We made a proposal in the Law, which concerns electronic documents, to introduce the use of electronic identity by electronic signature. It was explained to us that this is not necessary because the introduction of electronic identity in Bulgarian identity documents is imminent. Then we proposed a measure that would introduce the use of an electronic identity immediately with the application of an electronic signature. The rulers have refused, and now, once again, the introduction of electronic government has been denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u16	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I close the discussions and move on to the vote at first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. Please vote. Vote 131 MPs: 95, against 25, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. This was adopted at first reading the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal: on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limit for written proposals under the newly adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria into allied and foreign armed forces to be reduced to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u18	Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. We are voting on Mr. Gajev's proposal to reduce the period between first and second readings of three days. Vote 127 MPs: 92 against 35, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the next item, declared in our weekly programme as e.g. 2 for Friday, is: HEARING THE MINISTER OF ENERGY ON THE BASIS. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION WITH REGARD TO THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE STRATEGIC INVESTIST (S) AND FOR THE BUILDING OF THE NERVATION OF THE NERVE AND PROPOSITIONS FOR THE STRUCTURING OF THE PROJECT. Importer Delyan Dobrev on 4 December 2018. Point two for Friday. Minister Petkova's hearing is in the order of art. 113 of our Rules. The request is from the MP Delyan Dobrev, who proposes to hold a hearing of the Minister of Energy regarding the presentation of information in connection with a procedure for the selection of strategic investors for the construction of NPP "Belene" and opportunities for structuring the project. Dear Members of Parliament, I will remind you of the procedure. When the National Assembly proceed to the hearing, the proposer of the hearing shall make a statement of the questions within five minutes, the persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions subject to the hearing within ten minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each within two minutes. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within five minutes of asking all questions. Dear Members of Parliament, five minutes of rest to organize the procedure. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u19	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing the work on item two of the daily program. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, within five minutes to justify your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to apologize on my behalf and on behalf of my fellow Members, we had to take part in the opening of a conference at Sofia University and that is why we got a few minutes away. If you'll allow me to present my draft hearing with Minister Petkova on the subject of Belene. In mid-2018, the National Assembly decided that the Minister of Energy should resume its efforts to seek opportunities to build a nuclear power plant with a strategic investor, on a market basis, without contracts for compulsory buying-in of energy, without preferential prices, without contracts for difference, without corporate guarantees and/or other non-market mechanisms for guaranteeing the investment and without granting a State guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities for the NPP project. Recommends to the Council of Ministers and specifically the Minister of Energy to keep the National Assembly informed of the actions taken and the concrete results of the negotiations. We saw that about a month ago the Council of Ministers approved a report by the Minister of Energy, which concerns a procedure for the decision by the National Assembly. In this regard, I tabled a proposal to listen to Minister Petkova according to a decision of the National Assembly from the middle of the year for periodic information on the topic NPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Madam Minister, according to the procedure, you have the opportunity to make a statement within ten minutes on matters subject to the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Mr. Dobrev mentioned, in June this year, the Bulgarian Parliament decided to assign the Council of Ministers to seek the opportunity to implement the NPP project on a market principle, including without granting a state guarantee, without providing a corporate guarantee, without concluding long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity by the Bulgarian State. Within this decision, the Bulgarian Parliament commissioned by 31 October this year a procedure for selecting a strategic investor in the parameters set by the Bulgarian Parliament, i.e. the realization of the project entirely on a market basis. In implementation of the National Assembly's decision, the procedure for selecting a strategic investor was developed by 31 October this year. On 7 November, the Council of Ministers approved my report which presented the developed procedure. In the same decision, the Council of Ministers commissioned me, as well as the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, to introduce the National Assembly to the developed procedure for selecting a strategic investor. The procedure was developed within these parameters, as the Parliament commissioned them. Since we have adhered very strictly to the parameters that Parliament has set, the procedure provides that, together with the choice of a strategic investor, other types of investors wishing to acquire a minority share or such industrial consumers of electricity who would like and are interested in concluding a contract for the purchase of electricity produced by the nuclear power plant, of course, subject to all European rules regarding the electricity market. The procedure is structured, generally speaking, in three main parts. The first part relates to the general conditions which give information about the selection of the procedure and why we believe that it is important to give it an opportunity to include persons who would like to acquire a minority share. The second part of the procedure contains the conditions that the Bulgarian side will put in this procedure. We believe that they are important and I will read them to you from the procedure, so that everyone knows what is envisaged. The third part is related to the stages through which the procedure will go. Since I believe that the conditions that the Bulgarian side will put in this procedure are important, I will allow myself to read these conditions from the very procedure. First condition: the construction of the nuclear power plant in Northern Bulgaria under Project A-92 of the third generation with water reactor in Russian development VVER-1000, B-466 two units with installed capacity 2000 megawatts. Second condition: the construction of the nuclear power plant Belene will be implemented by a project company established for this purpose. Third condition: the construction of the plant should be carried out on a market basis without the conclusion of contracts for compulsory purchase of energy by the Bulgarian State, without the provision by the Bulgarian State of preferential prices for the purchase of electricity, without the conclusion of contracts for unlike the Bulgarian State, without the provision by the Bulgarian State of corporate guarantees and/or other non-market mechanisms for guaranteeing the investment and without granting a State guarantee. The construction should be carried out with the equipment and assets available at the designated site. The project must be implemented with the maximum and full use of already supplied reactor equipment and design documentation. In the course of the project implementation any changes to the design in terms of safety must be excluded to ensure its licensing. The owner of the VWER-1000 technology should be involved in obtaining the licenses and permits for the construction and operation of the project. The project company should engage with a supplier of fresh nuclear fuel to supply fuel for the VVER-1000 reactor, in accordance with existing licensing agreements and applicable legislation; the operator of the building plant to have experience in the operation of the VVER-1000 reactor; the maximum amount of the shareholder participation of the Bulgarian side in the project company, which will implement the project, only in the amount of the ad-port contribution of the assets relevant to the NPP project. The Bulgarian side, through the National Electric Company, reserves the right to a blocking quota when making decisions on certain issues within the competence of the general meeting of shareholders in the project company during the entire period of construction and operation of the plant; ensuring the possibility of negotiating with large industrial and other consumers of electricity from the country and the region, which have declared a desire to conclude a contract for the purchase of electricity; a maximum, maximum price for the construction of the project no more than 10 billion euros. Maximum period for putting into service 10 years from the conclusion of the agreement between the shareholders. The last condition is related to the participation of local Bulgarian companies in the implementation of the project. The steps relating to the procedure itself shall provide for appropriate preparation and invitation to potential investors. After that, it is envisaged to select on the basis of the applications to be submitted; to draw up a short list on the basis of which companies will be assigned again an invitation to submit binding offers; to sign a confidentiality agreement which will apply to both the potential investors concerned and their legal, financial and technical consultants with regard to their participation. An information memorandum will then be presented by the National Electric Company, which will contain all the information related to the Project. The topics on which the negotiations will be conducted, I also believe that they are an important part of the procedure, and I would therefore also like to read them verbatim, as set out in the procedure itself. The first topic on which negotiations will be held and an assessment by a committee will be given accordingly is as follows. Review and evaluation of the presented financial model, with special attention will be paid to the following parameters in it: capital commitment and guarantee by the candidates; way of financing the project; total value of the project, and as a result of the financial model of the electricity after the installation of the plant in operation; duration of the investment, if any; period for putting into operation of the plant; proposal for participation in the process of construction of the plant; percentage participation of local Bulgarian companies in the implementation of the project; provision of opportunity for minority shareholder participation in the project from third countries, e.g. companies from neighbouring countries; large industrial consumers; structure of the proposed shareholder participation in the project company, including minority shareholders, if any; management and operation of the plant, including the operator of the plant; commitment to buy the produced electricity; conditions for participation in the project; conditions for the project; exit; recovery of the project; management of radioactive waste. These are the topics on which the negotiations will be conducted. What we will best appreciate for the highest assessment, which will receive the relevant potential strategic investors for their proposals, we believe that the following is important. First of all, the proposed cost of building the project to be below nine billion euros. Such a proposal the committee will appreciate the highest. Duration of commissioning up to 8 years from the conclusion of an agreement between shareholders. Another parameter, which will be assessed at the highest, is: with a proposed structure to finance the project in the debt ratio of equity: 80-20; with the proposed participation of local Bulgarian companies in the realization of the project over 30% of the activities under the project; with a proposed concept for the realization of electricity, including with specific consumers. The last thing we believe is that it is important and will be appreciated at the highest level of discussion about the possibility that the operator of the new nuclear power plant "Belene" will be NPP "Kozloduy." We believe that these are important elements of the realization of such a project, and that is why we believe that these parameters should be evaluated at the highest level. As for the structuring of the project, because this is also one of the commitments that the Bulgarian Parliament gave me, a detailed analysis was made regarding how the project should be structured. The conclusion and analysis show that the best option for the Bulgarian country, so as to guarantee our property and financial interests, is to participate in the project with the size of the relevant assets, the contribution of these assets, such as the participation and provision of these assets to happen in parallel in the framework of the negotiations, which will be conducted with potential strategic investors so that we can protect our national interests to the maximum extent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We're moving on to group questions. Each group has the opportunity to raise two questions. We'll start with the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u24	Dear Minister, my question to you is extremely brief and clear: what do you think are the deadlines for each of the steps you have set before the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u25	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, this is a complex, big project in the field of energy. Such types of projects, we all know, cannot be realized in a month, two or three. For each of the stages through which the procedure will take place, it is intended to have a time resource that will be necessary to prepare potential strategic investors, to do their analyses, studies and to make the necessary preparation on our part. What we have placed as a potential road map, analyzing each of the stages, provides that this procedure will be completed within a year if everything on it goes successfully. Let us, first, start the procedure, see if the interest that has been expressed so far will be confirmed in the course of the procedure. What we foresee and consider realistic is for each of these stages to pass within a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u27	Thank you. A question from the BSP parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, yesterday at the Energy Commission we had a discussion. Before I ask my question, I'll share the opinion that is solidified in me. Until recently, I felt that you were one of the winners for the realization of this project, but all the steps that have been taken so far make me increasingly skeptical about this issue. The situation looks like this: the arbitration case was decided by a criminal decision to the detriment of our country in the summer 2016. We are currently at the end of 2018, we are doing another hearing in the Bulgarian Parliament to find that we are nowhere. With what you are offering us today, you are telling us that perhaps at the beginning of next year we will send an invitation to potential participants to make an interest. Invitation! We are at the first stage of the call for this in two years, at the pace with which this project is being developed. In no way is it clear how we got to this amount of 10 billion?! How do we get to this amount of 9 billion?! How are we going to invite traders to buy electricity without being able to tell us how much this electricity will cost and so on?! However, in order to be pragmatic in order to make sense of this hearing today, I think a few answers must sound clear. One is for this time schedule that you just answered about, and I believe that you are making a commitment from the parliamentary tribune within a year to go these nine stages, if I have correctly understood from the answer just now. Secondly, it seems to me that it is good to dispel yet another doubt that is going hard in the last month. In relation to the answer, which a Bulgarian MEP has sent to the European Commission, Mr. Svetoslav Malinov and the response received by the European Commission: based on art. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the regulations of the European Union and there is speculation that, in essence, you see, we must re-trace this procedure to coordinate this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u29	The question, Mr. Boychev, is running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u30	Therefore, my request is that you respond specifically to the situation with this project in order to dispel these doubts that there is no problem with the implementation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u31	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, from the outcome of the arbitration decision, which was in June 2016, by the end of 2016, we had decided the main issue............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We never stopped working in that direction for a moment. You know that with the support of all of you, a special law has been passed for the National Electricity Company, based on which the relations between NEK and Atomstroyexport were settled in relation to the arbitration decision. By the end of 2016, if I have to be absolutely accurate on 6 December 2016, we have translated 1 billion 176 million according to the arbitration decision. Apart from that, we were able to sign an agreement with our partners from the Atomstroyexport, so that possible arbitration against the Bulgarian State for violation of the investment would be impossible to bring. In practice, colleagues from the Atomstroyexport have given up this opportunity. The work that's done is pretty serious. We subsequently concluded a contract with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has developed a special analysis in relation to the project. You can see that the government is doing everything necessary so that we can find the best option for the recovery of these assets that we have for realization of the Project on a market basis. The procedure that we are discussing today cannot be developed in a very short time. As I have already mentioned, this is a complex process, a complex procedure, and there is no way that things can happen within a week or a month. These are long and complex processes that require time, require an opportunity to participate in one such project to do its analyses, its forecasts and decide not to participate or participate, or, if involved in one such project, under what conditions. As for whether there is a problem with the European regulations on how to say, the issues so published in this direction over the last month, I can say the following. The regulations of the European Union and, therefore, the...................................................................................................... It has been notified within these technical parameters that I have read and you have all heard that these are the parameters of the Project which has been notified by the European Commission. We have a commitment to notify by further communication the European Commission of an amendment to the investment project. That is, when it becomes clear whether there will be interest in this project, if there will be potential investors, then we are obliged to notify the European Commission further, something we will do. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u33	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Forgive the interruption, but time really should be respected. Mr. Shopov, first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u34	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Dear Minister, we from Ataka are the political power and party that we very much want the project to take place, the construction to be carried out, to resume the work of the NPP Belene. We've proven it for all 12 years. Therefore, I would also like to advise colleagues in this Chamber not to ask questions that create contradictions on the issue that are speculative, which create doubts about the work that you are doing as a minister and the government, in fulfillment of this decision, which was also consensual, and which we welcome so much, including not to raise questions about the actions of one or another MEP, I refer to the Malinov in question, behind which are those retrograde and traitorous powers of Bulgarian national interest, which led to a large extent one time to the suspension of the project, which are currently activated and digging in the most disgusting way in order to stop this strategic project for Bulgaria. That is why we need to ask questions in this House today that have a positive meaning and are in the direction of not hindering the great task that lies before you and the government. My question is, in the sense: is there, at this stage, although at this stage, a technological recovery of the project, declared intentions of potential investors, what are they, how many are there, if you can name them, which indicate that they would be involved in the project work?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u35	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u36	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, I have at other times had the opportunity to request an official written interest in terms of an opportunity to participate in the project has stated several companies. These are: the largest Chinese state nuclear corporation CNNC; the Korean hydro-atomic corporation; and the French company Of course, all of this is to understand how real this interest is, as with the announcement of the procedure there will already be official deadlines within which they will be able to state this interest, to submit applications, then have the opportunity to submit a binding offer. So this is going to be the guarantee of interest, but so far there is an official written interest in these corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u37	Thank you. A question from the DPS parliamentary group. Here you are, Mr. Atalay. The first question will be formulated by you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, I welcome you on the fact that you have implemented the decision of the National Assembly and have presented a decision or procedure for holding an investor's choice for the construction of the Belene Project. You also had no way out of this decision that the National Assembly presented to you. There you are exactly in those frames that you described them in the procedure. I read them very carefully and I remain convinced that you and GERB are not yet aware of the ultimate goal. My question is: Do you want to have and build a Belene, or do you not want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Madam Secretary, come in. In response times, there's no limit, they made me a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u40	It's okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, the topic related to whether to build the nuclear power plant "Belene" stands perhaps more than 35-36 years in the public space, in the Bulgarian energy sector. The situation we are in today is quite different from those situations in the years behind. Why is she different? First of all, the facts are what they are. We have a site for this project, which has all the infrastructure needed for the realization of this project; we have equipment that is Bulgarian property. Two reactors are here, at the site of NPP Belene and one resource that Bulgarian taxpayers have invested over the years and this resource is just over three billion levs. Another very important topic related to the direction in which the development of energy goes within the European Union, and this direction is related to clean energy and decarbonisation of the economy. All these aspects cannot be taken into account in this situation. I believe that by analysing all these facts, we need to make an attempt, just as the Parliament has made a decision, which I believe is the most optimal and best in this situation to seek the possibility of realising this project on a market basis, without the state committing further to state guarantees or corporate guarantees, or to concluding long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity from this plant. Analyses show that there will be a need for new base capacities not only for Bulgaria after 2030. Such a need will exist throughout the region because the review that was made about what capacities in the region will become obsolete, so to speak, from the energy system, shows that there will indeed be such a need. If the procedure we are discussing today ends successfully and if a strategic investor or investors are chosen under these conditions that we have set, I think it is good to try and implement one such project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the party. There won't be a question. Question from other MPs not members of a parliamentary group? I can't see. Let's move on to the second questions. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB party, come in, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I also welcome that, after a decision of the National Assembly, there is already a stage in which we can go in the selection of a strategic investor. Strategic investor I say because of the fact that this is not some technology that can be exploited by everyone, but is also expensive enough technology that we must develop in Bulgaria because we are from the few countries in which it already exists and is exploited. My question is this: because you have given the opportunity of minority, majority, to people who have to be binding contracts for the purchase of electricity, i.e. to participate in the project in some way, but, anyway, it must be coordinated in its further structuring and further investment in order to be able to seek attracted capital. Either way, we're going to be looking for such an attractive capital. My question is this: firstly, is there any interest in such credit institutions that have shown and expressed a desire to give financial resources to the project, i.e. these wishes of investors, have they said that money is behind them, because then will be the serious intentions? Secondly, the majority future owners, will they structure the Project and give the opportunity, or will the Ministry itself be the coordinator of this kind of performance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, first of all, regarding the interest of the funding institutions. We believe that this process and issue will be dealt with in the course of the negotiations that will be conducted with potential strategic investors because, as you have seen in the developed procedure, we intend to provide the financial model as a mandatory element of the offer. It is within the framework of the analysis of the financial model that we will see how these potential strategic investors actually see the structure of the project, and including, of course, its financing. This debate will be conducted precisely in the stage of the procedure relating to the submission of a binding tender and the conduct of specific negotiations on each of these topics. As for what the project company will do and who will coordinate the process, we believe that the commitment of the Ministry of Energy, respectively of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, should stop until we see if there is such interest from strategic investors, to structure the company and from here on to develop this project independently. The Bulgarian state will, of course, be in its place, as all regulatory authorities in the field of nuclear energy will have to closely monitor this whole process. Through the National Electric Company we will keep a blocking quota in the Project both during its construction and during its operation. The state will be there and will be present, but we believe that since the project will be implemented on a market basis, all other steps are a matter of shareholder decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Antonov from BSP. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! As MP from Pleven and Pleven District, I cannot help but express my concern about your exhibition and what is happening today with the debate. Definitely, the nuclear power plant is being built for more than thirty years, but what is not happening with it, with varying success, with acceleration or slower, but what has been happening since 2012 cannot give us the assurance that the nuclear power plant is going to happen. This doubt is confirmed even more today by your statement because, on the one hand, we fall into a large maze of requirements.. by putting ourselves in the place of the investors we expect to come, on the other side is the state with no commitments, or what you have set, the different conditions without commitments, without commitments, without commitments! On one side, we have project No 1 for the state and the biggest investment so far, on the other side of the state's poorly formulated commitments. I am convinced that this project, in order for it to happen, must, first of all, you must believe the executive power to believe, and accordingly set iron rules and their implementation. When such a big project is being carried out, the state cannot be absent. Here comes my specific question to you: how are we going to try in time until all the procedures are completed, leave investors and increase their opportunities to create more opportunities and interest in the nuclear power plant and the implementation of the nuclear power plant "Belene" nuclear power plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, in my reply to Mr. Nikolov, I mentioned that the Bulgarian state would be in its place. There is no way to implement such an infrastructure project in the field of energy without the presence of the state. It is clear to all of us that when such a project is being developed to build a new nuclear power, first of all, nuclear risk remains for the country in whose territory such a project is being implemented, so that the state will participate with all the mechanisms................................................................................. We will also participate in a blocking quota, which will enable us to control this entire process. The state will be present there from the process of realization to the final exploitation of this new nuclear power. So the state will be there, we'll be involved with an asset portfolio. These assets are worth 3 billion. We will export everything we have, all relevant assets, tangible and intangible, to this project. As for investors' interest and how the Bulgarian state will maintain this interest, yes, this is a very important topic. What I would like to assure you is that we have not stopped working in this direction, having conversations, meetings. This type of conversation and communication is constantly taking place, but now, after the launch of the procedure for choosing a strategic investor, if you do not have any serious comments on the procedure itself, we will be ready to prepare at the beginning of 2019. Then, of course, there will be talks with our neighbouring countries that are also interested in the possibility to participate in the implementation of the project in one way or another so that we can give greater publicity. Apart from that, the call for the project itself will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in two local daily newspapers and, accordingly, will be reflected in other media sites or newspapers, so that it can reach a wide range of persons who would be interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Valeri Simeonov will ask a second question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u50	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Petkova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is as follows: how in this competition for the search for a strategic investor are national interests protected, given that, in the event of the construction of the nuclear power plant by an external company, a state, private or whatever, theoretically, it would be possible for this investor to start selling electricity at dumped prices and thus trigger the bankruptcy of the nuclear power plant. It is not so difficult, it will be possible for much less than a year, then, figuratively speaking, to hold all Bulgaria's energy in its hands and dictate the prices. If anyone sees this as a fantastic, surreal plot, I can direct them to see what happened with the entry of Russian companies into Armenia's energy and Mongolia's. In other words: how are we protected by the fact that a large external investor could enter the country, thus offering dumped prices and putting the country's energy under total influence, not only? Why do I not see in the competition conditions such clauses for the inadmissibility of offering lower prices than market prices and also from the point of view of protecting national security? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I believe that such a risk does not exist and I will now try to argue why this is the case. First of all, I do not believe there is such an investor to invest their resources, to take corresponding loans that must be paid, and to afford to offer the production that it produces at dumped prices. This from a purely economic and financial point of view. On the other hand, it must be clear that this project is being implemented in a Member State and any potential investor who would like to participate in the realization of this project must fully comply with the rules and regulations of the European Union in the area of competition. I don't see any problem and I don't see the point in doing this thing. From an economic point of view, how the loans that this project will generate will be returned, as this loan must return. It is true that it is returning to the long-term, perhaps in the next 20 years, and will return from operation of the plant. It itself will have to earn the resources to repay this loan, but there is no economic entity that sells its production at a lower price with the clear awareness that it cannot serve its obligations and the mandatory condition for the existence of a nuclear power plant, according to Euratom, is to be financially sound. No one, on any occasion, would allow such a thing to happen, even more so, our regulator fully works in accordance with European requirements, with the world requirements in this area. So I don't see how that could happen. With regard to the guarantees for what investors will be selected, I mentioned for a reason that the Bulgarian State will participate in this project with a blocking quota, which will give it the opportunity for both construction and operation of the plant, to exercise control and influence on each of the decisions that are important and are within the competence of the General Assembly. This will be the guarantee for investors. Furthermore, the conditions that we have set are very clear. They provide requirements for these investors. We want their investments over the past 10 years back in time, including their experience in the field of nuclear energy, the credit rating they hold, their annual financial statements, audit reports related to their activities, all the necessary and relevant information to get an idea of this investor and we do our research on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u53	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a question from the second round, a representative of the DPS. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u54	Madam Minister, with every answer you answer in me, there are much more unresolved questions than to make it clear to us what we are doing today, but I believe that every procedure is based on the protection of the interests of Bulgaria, as well as the protection of the interests of investors. I can see that with every answer you have, we are in every way protecting the interest of the National Electricity Company of those we have spent 3 billion. BGN, not send any message of trust to investors who will come to invest in Bulgaria. My short question is: The National Electric Company falls into the minority shareholders group..................................................................................................... How do you see this blocking quota of the National Electricity Company and how will this investor, who will invest 10 billion, agree to the blocking quota of NEK? My next question: according to your procedures, the National Electric Company should immediately, with its letter, express an interest in the purchase of electricity, thus coming out of your procedures, will the National Electric Company buy electricity from Belene? The questions then arise: what will the price be when it is market price? However, after your answer to the first question, it became clear to me that the trials are still ongoing. One more thing. You know the parable that there was one who fell from the cherry and all gathered around him and cried out: "Call a doctor, and the man said, "No! Call me a man who has fallen from the cherry. " - Do you have such a person when you create this procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u55	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Atalay! First, as regards the question you have asked, how will NEK participate with a blocking quota? Our national legislation provides for the following option on this topic. A blocking quota shall be deemed to be such a contribution, which shall be a 34% contribution from the capital, or such a contribution, respectively, which shall enable the shareholder concerned to participate and take decisions which are of utmost importance and fall within the competence of the General Assembly. In other words, there are two hypotheses: either 34% participation, or the statutes have to sign such participation, it can also be 10%, it may be 15%, but we have a blocking quota. So this is the legal hypothesis regarding the participation that NEK will have as a blocking quota. This participation is very important to be blocking, I mentioned for what reasons, as the project is implemented on the territory of the country, the nuclear risk is for the country in whose territory such a project is implemented and we, the state, must be present in this project through its regulatory control mechanisms. So the state will be there and it will be the possibility that NEK has a blocking quota. The assessment that is being made at the time of all relevant assets to this project, I think it will enable precisely to achieve this blocking quota in the project. As for the person who has fallen from the cherry, whether we have such a person, I understand your question in this way.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The procedure that we have developed is intended to have a committee which will include experts from different areas and areas in this direction, and apart from that, there will also be an opportunity to have a advisory team to assist the committee and the work of that committee at each of the stages that it has had to do. Yes, there will be a need for such a consultant because no energy project, a large infrastructure energy project, can happen without the participation of such consultants. But we believe that it must first become clear whether there is real investor interest in this project, to structure the company and from now on the project company itself to take these steps related to the development of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the State Volya come in, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! These days we have learned from the media that Bulgaria has placed potential investors in the future nuclear power plant EUR for up to eight years. Compliance with these two conditions, you say in person, will be assessed at the highest level by the Commission, which will consider any investment proposals. Dear Minister, would you please inform us how and what jobs will be found in the different phases of the construction of the nuclear power plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Netsov! In the procedure we have clearly set the following criterion and it is related to the possibility of participation of Bulgarian local companies in the realization of this project at each of its stages. We believe that in this way we will be able to protect the Bulgarian business, we will also be able to protect the jobs of the people who work in these companies, something more, there will be an opportunity for economic revival not only in the territory of Pleven district, but also for the whole country, if this project is launched and the opportunity for successful realization is given. So we have not done an analysis of exactly how much these jobs would be, as they depend on the specifics of the activities to be carried out, each company evaluates with what purely human resources a certain type of activity can perform, but in any case it will also create an opportunity to create new jobs, will also enable the education system in the field of energy to receive a serious impetus. So I think that each such large investment has an extremely favourable and positive impact on the business climate of each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there a question from the independent MPs? I won't. Is there a desire from GERB's parliamentary group? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u62	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start by saying that we, as a political force, have always stood and we continue to stand behind the need for the nuclear power plant to be built as a project, as an element of national security, as an element of the state's electricity security. And what I'm about to say now is not to try to corrupt the Project, but to worry about what's happening, and for what reasons what we're hearing, it doesn't satisfy us. Two years and six months after the arbitrage, two years after we paid with the talks we had to pay, and maybe a year and a half after this equipment came to Bulgaria, the only thing we really did was wrap it in plastic. In all of this procedure we are doing, project "Belene" looks to me like that computer game "The Forge of the Empires" where everything starts from an empty field, passes through some wooden sheds and once in the future, these modern technologies are shown. Unlike the computer game, however, life is much harsher and much more cruel to those who are slowing down. I would just like to point out to you that those of reactors, which were the most modern in their time, with each year their modernity is slightly running out. And at the rate that you are working at, Madam Minister, I highly doubt that we will live to see the time when we will have a nuclear power plant, not for anything else, but because what you are telling us, without guarantees, without any state participation, without having anything unmarketed in the construction of the Project, if there is an investor, if there is an interest, if there is any, then maybe somehow we will start working on the realization of this project. Nothing to be specific, nothing to do with the realities of life. More than that. I cannot understand what this minority participation of NEK in a project company means, in your proposal to be 20% own capital and 80% attracted, i.e. credit capital, provided that 20% of the 10 billion is two billion and NEC will import a billion and a half into this project company? How will his minority participation be obtained, somehow mathematically I can't understand it! So even in this part, things don't work out right. And on time. You're saying that at the end of the year we'll have chosen an investor? Madam Minister, we will not have chosen an investor at the end of the year, I mean 2019 because you, if you put the advertisement in the European official newspaper for advertisements, will come out March month. Six months is the period within which at least the so-called "interest letter', letters of interest, letters of interest must be submitted. This means September month, you have to look at them first, then you have to call the relevant potential investors in order to start making offers, evaluate these offers and so on and so forth. You do understand that the end of 2019 is an absolute deadline that cannot happen? Therefore, Madam Minister, yesterday I made a remark to you, starting with your statement that we have told you the project can happen under the following conditions. I told you then, and I corrected you that the verb you should use is not the one you can use, but the one you should use. We have obliged you to do the project and must be done under these conditions, however, the question that really exists is: can this project happen under these conditions? Because when the state abdicates from its commitments, when we talk about just one blocking quota, we do not make the project more investmentally interesting so that the investor can come and say: I have an interest here to do it because the state is involved as well. We make it even less interesting for the investor because we say to him: "You will give your money, but we will dictate what to do with this blocking quota." Therefore, very please, Madam Minister, there is very little time left to say that this project will happen and it is necessary for Bulgaria, it is necessary for Bulgaria because there is no way Bulgaria can develop without modern electricity. To take and take an analysis and come and honestly tell us in Parliament: can you, under the conditions that you have offered us, let us accept, this project can happen or there must be some changes in order for this project to really happen and not try to prove how much we work, but we do not know what its future will be. I demand that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria and you as a minister responsible for the energy sector take the issue of realization seriously...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u63	The weather, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u64	...of the Project "NPP" "Belene". Seriously approach with results, not seriously approach with how to explain to us what could happen and what couldn't happen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The following is an opinion from the group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Petkova! Today is a very good day for Bulgarian energy, put in principle and in general, expressing our attitude to the group of United Patriarchs. We know that for many years governments have been lured into their ideas whether to build a nuclear power plant or to liquidate this project at all. But looking at the flashback that the first four reactors of the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, we closed them down with a political and not expert solution from the MAGATE, let's remember this thing. We have two thousand megawatt reactors left, for which we still have some kind of life, which, although it is prolonged, at some point we will have to close them down and we will find ourselves in a situation if we do not complete the nuclear power plant, we will not have cheap nuclear power. I merely recall that at the moment in France 75% of the mix of the state is from nuclear power plants. Yes, some small but rich countries, such as Switzerland and Austria, can afford not to have nuclear power plants and only to be with renewable energy and other electricity from green energy. We can't afford to do that. And not only that. That we have already made the investment of three billion and something, we are obliged to continue this project in a profitable economic way for Bulgaria and in a new situation in which, among other things, nuclear safety must be taken into account. I mean, I absolutely admire the government's decisions to look for a strategic investor, for the blocking quota and for all interactions between the government and the new nuclear partner, whoever it is. Pavel Shopov before me also expressed the position of Ataka and this is the position of IMRO, which is not from yesterday and today, it has been for many years, you know that we participated in a referendum to have a new nuclear power in Bulgaria, we are absolutely................................. I wish Minister Petkova good luck. I hope that further 2019 this investor will be clear. Thank you and good luck again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u67	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Personal explanation? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u68	Yes, Madam President, a personal explanation is necessary because Mr Popovski just said that this is the position of It was no accident that I urged the political forces to continue the consensus and, in a way, to help with our questions to this great idea. Two forces appear to emerge in the Bulgarian Parliament, which amend the initial consensus. Today's debate, Madam Minister, is particularly important because it is a kind of litmus how moods change inside, what are the attitudes and if we go towards positivism to this project, or some forces in parliament have been activated, as this has happened many times. Yes, indeed we fell from the cherry several times, and this time we are aware of what it means to fall from the cherry. Because if we hadn't fallen from the cherry a few times, the project would have long been a fact under much better conditions of its realization. Now, the nuclear power plant, Belene, would have electrocuted if this scary thing that happened seven or eight years ago hadn't happened, and it would have been 6 billion. 300 million. lv. That's why we see, and it's very disturbing for me, part of the United Patriarchs, NFSB and DPS, of course, they've never been in another position, are the people who are trying to put...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u69	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u70	...throw into the wheels and do all they can, albeit carefully yet, on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u71	Thank you. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u72	Madam President, I strongly disagree with the way you are leading this meeting. A personal explanation shall be given when the person is affected. The fact that it is mentioned that it has the same position gives you no reason to give it a personal explanation. Secondly, since you have given the floor for a personal explanation, I cannot understand why you allow common statements to be made and almost suggest that one.. one or a group of MPs is not entitled to express their own opinion. I don't think that's what he's suggesting. So, very please, pay attention to the way you are leading the sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u73	I will draw attention to every MP has the right to express his opinion as it is. We continue with the attitude of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u74	I am calmed to understand that your ultimate goal is not to see life or to build it, and your goal is to fulfill the National Assembly's order today to present the procedure to the MPs. You've fulfilled your duty. However, the question remains: why are GERB not convinced that this project should be built? Why are the United Patriarchs not convinced that this project should be built? There must be questions that you have not been able to answer, and there is no way to answer, and my request is Your political formation did so that you stopped the construction of the two nuclear units? On the arguments that GERB and the Prime Minister expressed then, I do not want to stop today, we are not in this phase. But the question arises, which you also have to answer: is this project the old project, or do we have a new project? Because if, as you have made a commitment to the Commission and in the near future, you do not present to the MPs the answer to the European Parliament, then in me the doubt will remain, and it will become even deeper, that you really do not want to build this project. The next question that arises, fellow Members: do we need new capacities or new capacities? Of course we need new power. But do we need nuclear power for new capacities or new innovative energy? [[Replications of the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]] Pay attention, only Germany in the European Union this year or in the coming years only spends about 10.5 billion on hydrogen energy! Colleagues, with all the conditions you have written here, Madam Minister, you are not sending a message of confidence to the investor, the inconsistent position with you is still continuing. If NEK enters this company, it is not clear how and how it will redeem energy, because only your position that you want for 10 billion, and then you set a condition that it should be built for 9 billion, the question arises in the financial circles: is this marking very serious here because you imagine that there are investors who want to build for 6 billion? It's not serious! My fellow Members, I would have spoken much more seriously if I had felt that you were really ready to build a nuclear plant. Since you are not ready to build a nuclear power plant, we are trying again how and how to fool the public, and you know that the DPS is generally against nuclear energy. But, Madam Minister, I would like to tell you and to protect you from entering those circles that would make unnecessary expenses so that you wouldn't be contacted by other institutions. Don't spend any more on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Will the Parliamentary Group be relevant? I won't. There is no desire on the part of non-members in parliamentary groups. Honourable Members, we have exhausted the hearing procedure under art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We will continue at 11.00 with parliamentary control. The first question will be answered by Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. We will then continue with questions and answers from Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u76	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions and written answers for the period 30 November "6 December 2018': - a request from the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin and Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova to Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister on government policy for dealing with the complex episootic situation in the country. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 December 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva; - Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on ten issues from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Lambev; - Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - additional to a written response from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkova to a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Diana Savateva and Dimitar Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov of a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Dinev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova-Hristova. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u77	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Lately it has been up-to-date media, NGOs, social networks to make the first news of the fact how dangerous the air in our country is. Our government panicked over the ugliness of another salty sanction and... [[Noise and lines by GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Please put in order not to call.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u78	Okay. You guys go ahead. I'll bring order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u79	... The government has panicked over the ugliness of salty sanctions by the European Commission and has therefore thrown itself into imitation measures by which it is supposed to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of April 2017. Because the work it has done tended to close to nothing, there is no way to hide it, the danger of sanctions is increasing and it is getting closer and closer. The fourth year since the European Commission's case against our country has been filed, and its motive is more than adamant, systematic, constant failure to comply with the limit values of air pollution. There's nothing we can do to hide. Rolling ideas on the mode of movement of cars and their age on Bulgarian cities and roads is pouring water into the sand. The European Commission directly alarmed that Bulgaria has been sleeping for a long time during the measures for harmful emissions from domestic heating. The Minister of the Environment has tried to clarify the responsibility for the large-scale management failure on this very issue of the killer atmospheric air in our cities. To talk about political consensus and to throw new responsibilities on the mayors of municipalities, I would say it borders on frank cynicism. Bulgaria ranks second in the world after Ukraine and before Belarus and China in terms of the number of deaths per capita. These startling facts are presented in the conclusion before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg in the case of the European Commission against Bulgaria for failure to fulfil the obligations on air quality and cleaner air in Europe by a Member State. It is true that the Bulgarian municipal authorities are closest to the problem and have the power to solve it. However, nothing is possible for municipalities to decide on their own if there is no decisive support for state policy. Alas, it is precisely this total failure that we are talking about right now! According to the data of the Executive Environment Agency, 25 municipalities are affected by ambient air quality. The list refers to municipalities in whose areas are based monitoring stations. It is clear that it is about municipalities that have come into the focus of the Criminal Procedure for non-compliance with the standards for the increase of fine particulate matter in the atmospheric air. About a year and a half ago, the Ministry of Environment and Water encouraged and loudly announced how we will deal with the problem, and 115 million were foreseen for this. lv. The same money was charged with the hope of guaranteeing a reduction in dust, domestic heating and other sources were investigated by the 25 municipalities, municipal programs and measures were written to improve the quality of the atmospheric air. After all, this environmental problem will be partly solved because only seven municipalities will enjoy the funds. The final beneficiaries are Burgas, Vidin, Dimitrovgrad, Montana, Plovdiv, Smolyan and Sofia Municipality. The rest of the state ordered them in line to handle themselves. Does anyone have any doubt that specifically in terms of fine dust particles in the air, these are municipalities that are hot spots of pollution there? Does he have the courage to count them and say how many hundreds of thousands of households are in these territories? In this case, the attempt of the mayors and of the Association of Municipalities to object and react with logical and fair arguments has sunk into the swamp of the management hubris. There is no reasonable and logical explanation as to why the information provided by the mayors of the cut-off municipalities lack grounds for dropping the measures they have proposed? Measures have been dropped, such as alternative heating, filter placement and a number of others. The lack of justification and reasons for saving these measures has made them mechanically removed. Colleagues, this is a verbatim quote from the written objections of the mayors of these municipalities, but everything remained without consequences. The institutions involved with bureaucratic hubris, which they have shown in this case, have saved the truth about the unforgivable delay in these measures by at least two years. Does it make sense for municipalities to work with atmospheric air protection programmes when they are ultimately unceremoniously deprived of access to funds? Does it make sense to monitor when the result of improving air and its quality is almost zero? There is a procedure for the creation of a quality data information system, there is a procedure for updating municipal programs, there are contracts concluded. What can municipalities do after that, besides pile up documentation folders and hope that someday they will have access to more solid means to put into these measures? My fellow Members, I can list many more evidence of the scandalous irresponsibility in this case which has been shown for years. Bulgarian citizens, municipal authorities, mothers, young and elderly, sick, healthy people are not interested in all the precision of all procedures, priority axes, funding measures and so on, when they end up not having any real measures in those places where they live, raise their children and want quality urban environment. The mayors in these municipalities were frankly told that whatever they had done, there is no money at the moment and soon there will be no money, because the absorption of these funds is limited to 31 December 2023, so they will have to wait for this deadline to get something or hope to get something. If in recent days it is a modern call how to leave their cars and to travel by public transport with a green ticket, hundreds of thousands of families from these 18 municipalities, which were not allowed to finance, in general, until the end of 2023, were sent on a wild goose chase. The working Bulgarians abroad are becoming more and more of those in Bulgaria and this is the ruthless statistics. Our healthcare is also a victim of environmental irresponsibility, besides the victim of a misunderstood and cowardly reform policy. Ladies and gentlemen of government, at first I said that people are going to go out in masks in the streets so that they don't breathe the contaminated air, they will become more and more, but sooner and more people will realize that this is not just because of the intolerance to the contaminated poisoned air, it is about those who have ruled the country in this way for the last 10 years. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Colleagues, they're only gonna take off the masks for suffocation when you're out of power. There's no other solution! Thank you. [[Noise and shouts from GERB: "Eee!," applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The first question is to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. He will answer the question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev concerning the establishment of a state road safety agency. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A month ago, the Council of Ministers' public consultation portal was published for public discussion: Draft of a decree of the Council of Ministers for the establishment of a state road safety agency. In the meantime, the time limit for the discussions has expired. Citizens' comments on the proposal made in the portal range from, I quote: the next pointless structure to a welcome for the idea of setting up a state road safety agency. It is a fact that much of what was written in the objectives of the agency envisaged for establishment coincided with the activities of the State Public Advisory Commission on Road Safety Issues, whose Rules of Procedure, by the way, were changed very soon in August this year, a few days before the tragedy at Svoge. An interesting detail is that before any legal basis has been established, before it is published for discussion The draft decree of the Council of Ministers and to be clear at least the structure and role of the agency, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will be given the task of structure and management of the road safety forum on the topic. At the beginning of the report on the Draft Decree of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of a state road safety agency is quoted, of course, the National Strategy for improving safety for road traffic in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2011 - 2020 where it is clearly stated that the main objective is to reduce the consequences of road accidents with specific and measurable indicators, to reduce those killed by 50% compared to 2010 and the wounded by 20% compared to 2010.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u82	To the question, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u83	It is obvious that a year before the end of the period 2011 - 2020 the results of what has been done are, unfortunately, far from the set goals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u84	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u85	In this regard, we ask you to answer: how will the planned state agency contribute to the reduction of road accidents, the number of victims and those injured on the road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for an answer. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Stoynev, Svilenski and Danchev, on the topic of the declaration I remember 2009, 2008, when I was mayor. Over Sofia from Kremikovtsi was smoke with all the colors of the rainbow. If the air was measured then, I don't know what it would have been. I don't want to talk about the yellow smoke of the Aztok-torn plant at Stara Zagora, because you say statistics in the past tense. I make a commitment during BSP's mandate, and the DPS, all the measures that the Ministry of Ecology then adopted or wanted to introduce, to do them. During the period of Prime Minister Oresharski, I do not remember who was then Minister of Ecology, in the mandate of BSP. So to reassure you of absolutely everything that then as a strategy you had during these two years will be fulfilled however much it costs. The broad nature of the causes that lead to accidents on the road requires measures and policies at different levels and from all institutions. Therefore, coordination of efforts between them is key to the effectiveness of our efforts and the measures implemented. In 2017, amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act were adopted, part of which are related to the part of administrative violations which were identified at the time of their execution, for which the suspension of the right to drive or withdraw control points was not provided for. They allow the place of infringement to be subject to a fine of either a minimum amount or the amount specified in the administrative penalty provision. In this way, it shall be allowed to choose, in the event of a breach of the position, the alternative to determine the amount of the fine on-the-spot, and the criminal document shall be served on the violator at the time of drawing up the ticket. Today we have 11 institutions that share responsibility for road safety. We also have a National Public Advisory Commission on road safety issues, which, however, does not have its own funding or permanent administrative resources. We also have a National Strategy for improving road safety 2011 " 2020." Our analysis shows that there are efforts, measures, information in different institutions, but there is no coordination mechanism that connects them and brings together the efforts of all participants in the process. That is why the government has proposed and is preparing the establishment of a State Road Safety Agency at the moment. By the way, most of the non-governmental sector also highly recommended it to us. It will develop common policies to increase road safety, coordinate and control its implementation. In addition, it will implement methodological guidance, coordination and control over the activities of the administration in the field of road safety, giving them methodological guidance and developing criteria and standards for the activities carried out. Other important functions that have not existed before are: data collection and systematic analysis of road safety status; integration of road safety information systems; implementation of intelligent transport systems for traffic management and control and automated data collection; research in road safety; information and educational campaigns for safe road traffic; cooperation and interaction with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, with the institutions of the European Union and with other international organisations. The project for the establishment of the new State Road Safety Agency is at a stage of public discussion and everyone has the opportunity to get acquainted with it and make proposals. I hope, after its completion, that we will have a good project and very soon fill this gap in the management process, which will change the state of road safety. I would like to clarify something important about the functioning of the new Agency does not cancel the responsibilities and responsibilities of existing institutions, but its functions will upgrade them, coordinate them and make them more effective. Thanks for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u88	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Prime Minister, thank you for your administrative response. Just to say that the public discussion ended on December 5th. This answer you gave is good for bureaucracy, but it is hardly good for Bulgarian citizens, because when people pay their taxes, they expect the state to assume its responsibility and take care of their security. After Svoge it became painfully clear that we, de facto, are not doing our job. If people don't pay their taxes, they'll suffer the consequences. But if bureaucracy doesn't do its job, what do we do, colleagues? We are creating an even greater bureaucracy because we are creating a new agency and there they need to find a place for bosses as I do not know what experience there is in road safety Mrs. Malina Krumova. She was released because there should be accommodated for moral reasons as Deputy Minister Nankov, who was a minister. And this guy after the tragedy in Svoge just had to go away and I can't figure out with what eyes you're going to go to Svoge for example. Human lives on the road are not saved by bureaucracy and administration, Prime Minister. There are already and there are enough bodies and structures, there is no need for new bureaucracy. We have enough laws. Mr. Prime Minister, every time there's an accident, you talk about the Road Traffic Act, every time we promise a new law. Are you working on it? No. When are we going to see this law? Nobody knows anything, but we're going out with this new law in public. I assure you, it is necessary and it was good to really have such a law. But if we want to have real action, Mr. Prime Minister, you just have to get these structures to do their job, not create new administrative structures with a state of 39 people who just need to get some work done. I think you should also take care of the quality of road construction, because it is obvious, Prime Minister, that you are mastering quality, but you are building poorly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u90	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. For the back, Mr. Borisov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u91	No, I'm gonna spoil the good tone! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u92	Let us thank the Prime Minister for his participation in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Allow me to congratulate the students on their December 8th holiday. On this day, which has been officially celebrated since 1916, young people from universities celebrated academic spirit. Freedom of ideas is the inalienable change of time. This is the day on which it is worth remembering that the intelligence of the nation gathered in student audiences is the one that belongs to the future. I do not want to waste time, honourable Members, with well-known truths, but I am only saying this to remind you of the challenges facing new generations and the responsibility that each of us has. Because what we pass on as an experience, we create as laws, we share as messages here, we create the future of our nation and our country. The generation that is now in universities wants more, but it can do more. It quickly wants to take the next step, it can't wait, but it has clear goals. Young people tend to work, but to achieve the results now, not after years. They are committed to social causes and have a higher sensitivity to moral problems. This generation can change jobs more than five times in its life, will be ready for rapid revolutions and its entire daily life will be linked to the development of industry 4.0. What does that mean, though? It means that every part of public life and the labour market must change quickly enough that it can accept the new generation without tremors. I will not list the details of these changes, but I will focus on the greatest challenge, namely the provision of personnel for the labour market. This is the most important issue and it focuses the efforts of GERB with the huge support of employers, trade unions and the academic community itself. You will allow me to list some of the main steps that are at the heart of our management policy: career orientation from kindergarten; development and validation of dual form of training and of all vocational education; a change in the Law on Higher Education, which was voted by parliament very soon, guaranteeing an opportunity, prominent specialists from the practice to pass their experience on to students. We can no longer talk about the broken link between education and business, we are not talking about the lack of quality staff or unfair employers. The debate is how to give the best opportunities to future employees in the labour market and what is its readiness for flexible measures so as to meet the demands of the new generation. This is not just a trend in our country, but also a challenge to many other countries. We cannot afford with old methods and practices to keep young people in their jobs, and to offer training that does not guarantee their development. I think we have a common agreement. What is most important at the moment is to have enough working mechanisms to ensure the career realization of students, of our young intelligence not just somewhere but of good working positions. We have already seen that many young people choose to go back and work in Bulgaria a fact that shows the stability of our common policies, but it is time to put a final end to the practice of people with high educational centers to work on inadequate specialties for them. The first steps in this direction are already a fact, with priority funding for the search for important for the state and the economy professional directions in universities, but there is more to work on. Dear colleagues, I took the liberty of reminding myself in a few words of the great challenges facing our country and ourselves as a legislative body to the young people of Bulgaria! Because every policy we have is aimed at children, students, students, new generations, and every action to them must be linked to one thing: the responsibility for our future. Once again: Happy celebration of the students of both the present and those who have only memories of the academic audience! To these young people I wish to keep their ideas and their freedom of thought, and to remember that there is nothing more valuable than young spirit and experience of time! Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB and OP, lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u94	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. We are moving on to questions to Ekaterina Zaharieva (Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs). She will answer, firstly, a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov on the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the harsh intervention of the Serbian authorities in the elections for the National Council of the Bulgarian Minority. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov, in two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u95	Mrs. President, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On 4 November 2018, elections for the National Council of the Bulgarian Minority were held in the Republic of Serbia. They went into the atmosphere of harsh pressure and interference in the work of the national minority by the Serbian state, in the face of the ruling Serbian Progressive Party. As the elections approach, Bulgarian organizations are notified by a letter signed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of State for Government and Local Self-government of amendments to the Law of the National Council of Minorities, according to which the President of the National Council of Minorities cannot be a member of a governing body of a minority party, such as the President, members of the central and executive leadership. This tells minority party leaders that they cannot run in the upcoming elections. However, the Bulgarians in Serbia are registering the list of Bulgarians in Serbia. The Bulgarians from almost all Bulgarian communities are participating in the region of Tsaribrod, Bosilegrad, South and Eastern Serbia, Vojvodina. The list is also registered. This is us. The mayor of Bosilegrad is Vladimir Zahariev. At the direction of the President of the National Committee of the ruling Serbian Progressive Party, the list of Bulgarians in Serbia was withdrawn. Since the Election Law requires at least two parties to participate in minority elections, the third list of the Bulgarians is registered at the last minute to restore the dignity of the people who are gravitating around Zahariev. In addition, the so-called separate electoral lists have been introduced in which hundreds of non-Bulgarian citizens register as Bulgarians so that they can vote for elections. This whole farce is being played at a time when in Bulgaria there is a violent media campaign against the issuance of Bulgarian documents for the identity of Bulgarians from abroad, including Bulgarians from the Western suburbs. On November 1st the Day of the People's Buddhists, and only three days before the elections for the National Council of Bulgarians, four persons were arrested in Tsaribrod, prominent representatives of the Bulgarian organizations. All these manipulations lead to the convincing victory of one of the candidates, and the majority of the Bulgarian minority is not allowed to choose its representatives at all on the National Council. In our view, these actions are an obvious example of the gross intervention of the official Serbian authorities in the work of one of the national minorities, aimed at providing themselves with obedient and respect for the country's minority recommendations, amid the country's negotiations on EU membership and opening the negotiating chapters concerning minority rights. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, since the above case is a serious blow to the policy led by the current government of the Republic of Bulgaria towards the Republic of Serbia, I ask the following questions: is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed on the case? What action have you taken? In proving the intervention of the Republic of Serbia in the minority rights of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs will the official opinion of the Bulgarian foreign policy to support Serbia's membership in the European Union be reviewed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, as you noted, Bulgaria consistently supports all Western Balkan countries on the road to full membership of the European Union, but, of course, this membership and future membership is not unconditional. There are a number of conditions that every candidate country must fulfil before becoming a full member. One of them, of course, is respect for fundamental human rights and, in this case, the rights of self-determination of minorities. The Republic of Serbia adopted a new law on minorities, on national councils, sent a letter, and we were all looking forward to this actually improved legislation, which de facto increased not only on paper, but also in practice the protection of their rights and in terms of the choice of national councils, media and access to mother tongue media, access to textbooks in Bulgarian in this case. Unfortunately, as you have said, yes, of course we are familiar and have observed carefully, without, of course, an opportunity to interfere with the domestic policy of the country concerned, what happens when choosing these national councils. We have data not only for interference in the elections of the Bulgarian National Council. After they passed the election, of course we took action. We have raised the question of doubts about interference in these elections at all possible international levels, both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, you know that they also have obligations under the Convention, and in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation. In Brussels, for example, there was an Association Council on 15 November, which takes place for each Member State, and it was explicitly on our request that they should comply with and in practice with the laws they have adopted. Bulgaria has an interest in all Western Balkan countries meeting the conditions for membership and being members of the European Union when they are ready. Bulgaria has always supported and will continue to support Serbia's European integration, but in fulfilling, as I said, the relevant criteria. The real level of realization of all rights of the Bulgarian national minority in the field of education, Bulgarian language, access to media are also not to underestimate the religious services in Bulgarian language, for us is an indicator of Serbia's readiness to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u99	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply, although it seems that it is a tradition in bilateral meetings and negotiations between the highest heads of state of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia that the Serbian government makes serious commitments and subsequently at a lower level, or at least that impression remains, that the problems should not be resolved and remain that way for years. I will allow myself as a member of the Bulgarian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to refer to the Council of Europe on this occasion. We really hope for a more active work of the Bulgarian foreign policy to prevent such cases. Seriously, the fear is that when the negotiating chapters are opened with regard to minorities, indeed Serbia is creating one thing, I can say tolerantly or prone to defend the position which the Serbian government, a Bulgarian minority, dictates to it to show that the rights of the Bulgarians in Serbia are respected. Believe me, from the numerous meetings with people across the border, I am under the impression and I am convinced that these rights are really not respected and remain only in a book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. We move on to the next question to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva. It is a question by the MPs Alexander Paunov and Alexander Simov about the development of relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia and the position of the Republic of Bulgaria for the name Northern Macedonia? You have the floor to ask the question and develop the thesis, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u101	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, the warming of relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia is a process that brings satisfaction to all Bulgarian citizens, but there is no way to bypass the problematic moments in it, which relate to our common historical past. In August 2017, you said, including to Macedonian publications, that Bulgaria will not accept any version of Macedonia's name, which contains the word "northern." A similar decision would constitute territorial claims to the southwestern part of our country. The exact words quoted by the media in our neighbour were your exact words. A year after that, your position changed to 180 degrees. In June 2018, you announced that the name Northern Macedonia is quite acceptable, even adding that you are pleased with it. Your statement revealed that suddenly concerns about claims completely melted when and how. Our question to you, Madam Minister, is: what are the reasons for the sharp transformation of your position, respectively of the government? What are the political grounds to state that the issue of claims is not relevant at the time after the referendum on the name of the state held in Macedonia? Do you continue to stand up for yourself? Do you intend to revise other official positions of the Bulgarian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Pawnov and Mr. Simov! Bulgaria is the first country in the world, as you know, recognised the Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional rule on January 15, 1992. Even 26 years ago we have accepted the use of the name of the geographical region of Macedonia as part of the name of our southwest neighbour, in full integrity.................................................................... I would like to emphasise explicitly that Bulgaria's position, at least on this issue in foreign policy, has been extremely principled and defended by all Bulgarian governments so far. Only in the period after 2009 in relation to the continuing Iredtist speeches, anti-Bulgarian films, changing the curriculum, will I not list, I would directly call a number of hostile actions to a neighbouring country, such as Bulgaria, by the government in Skopje, in general qualified as an expression of speech hate towards a neighbouring country, we clearly stated our position that Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian government require that these obvious end processes should not be left without consequences. Accordingly, we have placed a condition that the start of the EU membership negotiations be bound by the signing of a treaty on good neighbourly relations, and not only by signing, but by the negotiations, if they start, implementing this treaty, because we can sign many international documents that will remain only on paper. It was at that time that during the first GERB government, the Bulgarian state brought the signing of this treaty as its main priority before the start of membership negotiations. I remember very well when one of the previous enlargement commissioners visited Bulgaria in 2012 the speeches of the then Bulgarian President, Bulgarian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. Our main goal is to stop and prevent the distortion of historical events on the basis of propaganda, false claims, not to instill hatred as a whole between the two countries and their citizens. I consider it absolutely unacceptable and counterproductive for the Bulgarian national interests to create a suggestion that we have changed our positions in terms of policy towards the Republic of Macedonia. It is not for a reason that it is such in connection with the long-standing efforts of a number of diplomats and Bulgarian governments. It wasn't a coincidence after 12 years of negotiations that we were able to sign this so significant contract. With regard to my speech, you can accept it even as part of the negotiation tactic. It was literally done shortly before the treaty was signed. Of course, it was very important for us to include in this contract art. 11, p. 5 which expressly prohibits interference in internal affairs and the suspension of any claims which were not as territorial as they were in terms of history, identity, language and so on and so forth. It is no coincidence that you unanimously ratified this treaty a few months later, almost six months. On January 18, 2018, I stress, the Bulgarian Parliament ratified this treaty. 186 MPs voted. The benefits of the Treaty and in general the change of their attitude began even before the entry into force of the Treaty.. Celebration for the first time of the Ilinden-Preobrazha Uprising, visiting together St. Cyril's grave in Rome, visiting here and honoring the Bulgarian king Samuel, visiting the grave of Gotse Delchev and so on and so forth. As a result of this treaty, a joint multidisciplinary committee has been established, which has already had three meetings, and I will not hide that obviously the public pressure on the members of the Commission by the Republic of Macedonia is quite high. A simple review of their press or press is enough to see that it seems as if there is still a way to go to recognize the common history, the story as it is. Of course, we do not have a complex of our history, on the contrary, we are proud of it, the Bulgarian interest is to tell the story as it has happened and if we want, as many times they call us, to look forward to the future, we must recognise the common past and look forward to teaching our young people the truth, so that after these 75 years no more hatred is created and literally distortion of the historical facts and events in the Republic of Macedonia. Regarding the referendum, as you also had such a question, I believe that the citizens of each country have the opportunity to make such a choice as the one they made and more than 90% of the voters there said in a firm way that they want their country to be part of the European and Euro-Atlantic community. In conclusion, the Bulgarian national interest is to open up the Republic of Macedonia, to be an ally in NATO and a member of the European Union when they are ready, of course, in the implementation of the Treaty of Good Neighborhood, not only when it is signed. You know that there is also another committee in this treaty, which is the Monitoring Committee for the Implementation of the Treaty, which is in all spheres of public life - culture, economics and so on. The treaty gives its positive results. We have an increase in trade between the two countries, we have an increase in tourists, but I think I've always said that, there's a long way to go before we can really say that God forbid someday we don't need a contract to strengthen our neighbourly relations. They come from the ties of citizens of both countries and their politicians.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Who's gonna ask a question? Mr. Simov, you have the floor to ask two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Zaharieva, thank you for your answer so far. If something creates a sense of change of position, I do not think that this is the question of change, but two different statements, literally within a year, which, in my opinion, will not create such a feeling. In this regard, I have only one supplementary question for you. You yourself said that this committee and its members are under strong internal pressure. I ask you: to what extent does Bulgaria follow the internal political processes in Macedonia; to what extent does the international pressure follow, how is it ready to react to it and is there any other positions that we will change on this topic, because one can still expect it as part of the negotiating process's tactics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u107	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is monitoring the domestic political situation. Of course, and not only there, not only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in many countries. Of course, neighbouring countries are important to us. We do not want them to be gray areas, we want to return, so to speak, to the state of isolation and strong nationalism, hostile to neighbouring countries. Regarding whether Bulgaria has changed its strategy towards the Republic of Macedonia with regard to its wishes for good neighbourliness and true reconciliation and storytelling as it is not. It has been this way for many, many years. I think if Bulgaria had to think about whether there was a problem with the name, it had to think about when I accepted it, which is what it is now since 1992. I don't think it was a mistake then, because in the end it was a gesture of friendship. Of course, after that, you know the processes, they haven't only started in the last 10 years. They started when the state was built based on anti-Bulgarian rhetoric, denial of history, language and so on, and this was not during the democratic development of the two countries. It was at one time when obviously our most important partner then, along with the leadership of Serbia and then Yugoslavia, decided to actually separate and cross off the Bulgarian self-consciousness, the Bulgarian origins of these people, including in Pirin Macedonia, I stress by pressing the Bulgarians in Pirin Macedonia to write Macedonians. So time will have to go and pass to erase, so to speak, this brainwashing lasting over 75 years. But it's the right way anyway. Of course, there is no international pressure on us to stress this only because it is very abused. Nobody pushed us. Nobody pushed us to sign the contract. We have requested this treaty and this is what Bulgaria has set as a condition for consent for the start of Macedonia's membership negotiations. I don't know what external pressure you're talking about. There is none, I stress, and many times I have said this: rather the expectations and the desire for reconciliation on their part and the telling of the truth by the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian government. So there's no external pressure, no pressure, and we won't accept it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Attitude? You have the floor, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u109	Madam Minister, my colleague Simov and I are dissatisfied with your clerical response. You as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria do not defend the interests of our country. With the name Northern Macedonia, as you say... [[Replys from "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u110	Please don't disturb the atmosphere in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u111	...in his statement, the prerequisite for making territorial claims to the southwestern part of our country. Now that a referendum was held in the Republic of Macedonia and there is a decision of their parliament on the name Northern Macedonia, you should have had a much sharper reaction to block any territorial claims by Macedonia over time. In our opinion, you changed your attitude to 180 degrees, and the foreign minister of the Republic of Bulgaria should protect the Bulgarian interests, not the Euro-Atlantic decisions to expand NATO on the Balkan Peninsula. We can look at how Greece dealt when negotiating with Macedonia, how did it protect its history, the claims that Alexander Macedonian was a Macedonian, and the question arose: what language did Alexander Macedonian speak when there was no Macedonian language? I'll give you one more example. The Commission, which you are talking about, the joint Bilateral Commission, has reached a standstill in the talks on the history between the two countries in the Middle Ages, when there was no Republic of Macedonia, and I imagine what will happen when the time comes to negotiate, and to decide on the Ilinden uprising, where Prime Minister Zaev raised the question that it is simply Macedonian, and if the Bulgarians want to celebrate it, it is their problem. Therefore, I think, Mrs. Zaharieva, that you do not have the necessary training and qualities for the foreign minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's why you have to resign.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u112	Dear Mr. Pawnov, please, no personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u113	Two minutes longer you extended the minister's time. For this reason, resign so that a worthy Bulgarian can take up this post and defend the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. The next question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is from the MP Ivan Chenchev about the Bulgarian Consulate in Barcelona. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As a Bulgarian citizen and member of the Friendship Group between Bulgaria and Spain, I am empathetic to the fate of over one hundred and thirty thousand of our compatriots there. Tens of thousands of Bulgarians live in Catalonia region. However, they are deprived of administrative service by the Bulgarian state and are offered incompletely because of the long distance to Valencia and Madrid, where our country has representations. Since October 2017, the Honorary Consulate of the Republic of Bulgaria has been closed in Barcelona. I think that Bulgarian citizens there, who are as much as one district city, deserve to be facilitated from an administrative point of view, given the inconvenient physical working hours and place of the other Bulgarian representations in Spain. I'd be happy if we could contribute to this together. I guarantee the necessity of such a service, given the fact that the area is visited by thousands of Bulgarian tourists annually. A good occasion for such an event would be the 110th anniversary of Bulgaria's diplomatic relations with Spain. It would be good not only for the consulate to have representative functions, i.e. honorary, but to be able to operate with Bulgarian documents. Before I ask the question, I would like to refer to a letter which is from Bulgarian citizens who live there, our compatriots, to our ambassador: "With this letter, we would like to draw attention to the problems faced by thousands of our compatriots who live in the area. This is the problem in the procedures for issuing and renewing the Bulgarian identity documents - ID card, passport, driving licence, first passport of a newborn child. In order to implement these procedures, it is necessary to travel to Madrid or Valencia, which are quite distant from Barcelona. In both cases, we are talking about large costs for the road, sometimes sleeping in the case of families with young children, as well as the need to take a leave of absence from work. Emergency situations such as: leaving without documents of Bulgarians robbed by thieves, whether they live permanently or are tourists; not to mention cases of abduction or deaths. There are great difficulties experienced by Natives living in the districts without a Bulgarian consulate. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you a little bit more because this is a very important topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u116	I'm waiting for you, as you can see. I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u117	This is why we insist on: first, the opening of the Consular Service of the Republic of Bulgaria in the city of Barcelona. Secondly, if this is not possible, we ask for an export of consular days at least once a year and a list of those who are willing to serve will be made in advance. Third, the ready-made new identification documents should be sent with a recommended consignment so that no second arrival of an embassy official is required. This letter is accompanied by the signatures of us Bulgarians living in Barcelona who insist on taking our requests as seriously as possible and show concern for their countrymen who have chosen to live outside Bulgaria. Respectfully, Bulgarians in Catalonia district.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u120	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chenchev, I would very much like to tell you that this year we will find funds and create this Consulate General or Consulate, even if it is not general, so that Bulgarian citizens can receive better services. Our aim is really, for example, last year we opened a Consulate General in Taraklia there are 45 000 Moldovans of Bulgarian origin who did not have any administrative service and two new embassies. So, of course, the whole activity is aimed at improving administrative service and where there is a consulate and the political links between Bulgaria and the relevant areas and regions in which they are found. According to data from the National Statistical Institute of the Kingdom of Spain since July 2018, 125 244 Bulgarians live in the country. The majority of them are very well integrated into society, have jobs and really have no problems with life there. 11 308 Bulgarians officially live in Catalonia, i.e. not hundreds of thousands, but 9% of the entire Bulgarian diaspora there. There are indeed many, and this makes this area the third in number of Bulgarians in the Kingdom of Spain the third region with the most Bulgarians in Spain after Madrid and after Valencia. By comparison, the Consulate General in Valencia serves about 45 000 Bulgarians a year, in Madrid somewhere around 11,250, only last year since the beginning of the year. You are indeed right and I fully support what they write in the letter that, in fact, an honorary consulate does not carry out the administrative services that our citizens seek. Of course, we are in the process of finding a new consul of honor, but what is more important is what we can do to improve services without revealing everywhere. You understand that this is an awful lot of budget. There are many Bulgarians and the question will then arise: why in the second area, where there are more than 22 000 Bulgarians, almost twice as many as in Catalonia, there is no such consulate? Our goal is really improving services. Since I've been a minister, we've accessed the electronic database. Currently, an example of a population that did not exist, as strange as it may be, instead of coming twice to apply first, then to receive the certificate, for example, for marriage, death and so on, can do so immediately. I fully agree with their proposal and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposed an amendment to the Bulgarian Identity Documents Act in order to limit walking to once. That is, when they submit and are necessary, because biometric data will be needed, then they will be able to receive the finished documents by mail so that they do not incur costs, waste no time and travel twice. Not only in Spain, but in many other countries the distances are very large. The law was in public discussion and will soon enter the National Assembly, and I hope that it will indeed receive your support. That's one of the measures. Another measure is the 10-year international passports, because this will really save walking more often. We also introduced a new electronic system for consular services, i.e. to be able to state the exact time and date so that when they went, they would not wait in line. We do our best to facilitate the provision of administrative services in which consular services de facto appear the front office, the counter, and at the same time it is provided to other administrations in Bulgaria so that Bulgarian citizens feel better served and protected. You understand that Bulgarian documents cannot be done entirely electronically, but for example we allow applications to be completed in advance so that they do not waste time there. We are working on this and I believe that with the analyses we are doing, where it is necessary to find more and strengthen administrative service. We also strengthen consular services summer when it is the most intense season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u123	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I thank the Minister for his answer. There are a few things we need to tell each other. I see that effort is being made. There are currently two points revealed where Bulgarian citizens collect signatures in connection with a petition they have made to open a consulate. After all, we both know, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, that you don't actually give the answer to me, but to them. In the question I asked, I said tens of thousands and not hundreds. You said "15." That's true, but that's actually the official data. Probably in the unofficial we all know that this number is going to be more. I'm going to ask you to follow this question, pay attention to the petition. This is what our fellow citizens claim and are absolutely right because they want to see more care from the Bulgarian institutions. It is good because in the parliamentary group today, when we discussed the issue and talked in the couloirs, it turns out that many of our colleagues have Bulgarian relatives and friends who live there and have encountered different problems after October 2017, when the honorary consulate is actually closed. I will be happy with you, I am ready to cooperate with what I can, as well as our parliamentary group, but to respond to claims, wishes, in fact, to the purely human needs that our compatriots need. I'll keep an eye on the case. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. A hole? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u125	Mr. President, I appeal to you in the manner of holding you to be equal to the ministers who answer the questions and to the MPs of the opposition, because you gave the Minister two minutes more, and a second minute and a half, and when I answered, you just interrupted me in the end. I ask you for a tolerance, because there must be a level playing field between those who answer and those who ask the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. I didn't interrupt you, I just asked you to be moderate in your speech because you violated good manners. That's all. Otherwise, you can see that I am trying to give both the questioners and the answerers the opportunity to fully expose their views so that we can achieve what we are doing today. Thank you. The next question to Minister Zaharieva is from the MP Anton Kutev on the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens - former owners of motor vehicles in the Republic of Bulgaria, accused or convicted of human trafficking in the Hellenic Republic. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, I will allow myself to begin with the correspondence we had with you before, because more than a month ago I asked you a more general written question, you answered me in writing. I will try from your written answer to get out the part that specifically concerns this topic, that is to say, for the people who sold their cars and then sued accordingly for having entered the coupons as owners. In your reply, you say that according to Greek legislation in human trafficking in the territory of the country, judicial responsibility for the act bears both the driver of the vehicle and its owner. In all known cases of accusations against car owners with Bulgarian registration so far, this has been done on the basis of the registration certificate and the accusations have been brought against the owner entered in these documents. That is, you confirm with your reply then that there is a problem that, according to Bulgarian law, I explain to the citizens who look at us when you sell your car, the next owner, with a change in the Law from a few months ago, is obliged to record it, but, as far as I understand it, if he breaks the Law, he still does not exonerate the one they have caught. In fact, this guy is not caught because he's supposedly innocent, you're selling your car, the new owner doesn't fit or change the coupon, they catch him for human trafficking in Greece, respectively the Greeks condemn both the real trafficker and the car salesman who should no longer have anything to do with it. I am not a judge, and I understand the other thing that you wrote to me in the reply that the Greek judiciary, as well as the Bulgarian judiciary, are independent, that is, I am far from the idea to say that all citizens who have been captured in this way are practically innocent because some of them have actually been involved in traffic, even though de jure they have sold their car. That's the court's job. Nevertheless, you say that only in Thessaloniki there are 16 cases. Specifically, there are 16 cases with cars. Then you say that the Consulate and the Ministry do the following things This makes the state, which, frankly, seems very inadequate to me, and that is why I am going through this now. As a matter of fact, I would also like to quote the next paragraph of your response, which you have done, that in almost all known cases the lawyers have managed to collect the necessary documentary evidence to remove the accusations. However, the practice shows that the next stage of the legal proceedings was then achieved a positive result for the Bulgarian citizens and the accusations raised. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going any further. The point is, however, that the words here are almost there all the time. My question is: are all the possibilities of diplomacy and the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs exhausted with what you have done? I point out: if "almost" means that there are two, three, four or ten Bulgarian citizens who are practically serving 20-year sentences in Greece, without being guilty in practice under the Bulgarian law, this is already a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u129	Therefore, it is very important not just whether we have carried out normal actions, but whether we have exhausted all possible actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u130	You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u131	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Answering in writing, but not just because of your question, but before it became so public and media, we had information. Then, as it is under the Vienna Convention, the so-called Consular Convention, when Bulgarian citizens wish to be informed the Bulgarian authorities and to receive assistance. We've had a lot of cases where they refuse and even we've gone, but, anyway, it's their choice. This is in this consular area, not just in Thessaloniki, that is, closer to the border. Not only did you correctly quote from my letter, because you understand that especially when a person sold his car, there were gaps in the Bulgarian legislation and the fact is that a large part of these problems are because of the gaps that have been corrected subsequently, should be reassured, to be aware of their rights, to assist them to find lawyers who still speak Bulgarian. There are those, thank God, in Greece who are quite familiar with the case studies. So far, we have no information about a convicted or indictment, except for the possession of a car, meaning we have no information, we do not have an effective Bulgarian citizen in prison because the new owner has not changed the registration of the car. What we did on the path of diplomacy is still consular consultations at the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our deputy minister was there. I don't know if I mentioned it in the written answer, maybe it was shortly after I answered you in writing. Either way, we not only for each particular case, but Bulgaria's desire is to explain. Their government also cannot interfere with their judicial system, they have said this many times, but to explain this specificity of Bulgarian legislation and perhaps misses, so that the investigative authorities in Greece can search for the real owner of the car, the vehicle that is involved in human trafficking, and not just the person who sold his car and may not even remember when this happened anymore. We have held consultations, exposed our position and will continue to provide assistance to all Bulgarian citizens not only in the Hellenic Republic, but also those who have problems. As you rightly said, of course we cannot despise that any one who is detained has no involvement, but since these cases have become several, we cannot despise the opposite that every one of them who has sold his car has participated in some group. In any case, it is very important that our special authorities, which are investigating, are in contact with them to see if there is no clean organization from Bulgaria. The use of cars, which are known that the new owner has not transferred the coupon to the old and sold several times, which was also possible to happen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank God there's been a change in our legislation. It's about cars that were transferred many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u133	Dear Minister, first of all, to tell you that I did not know that there was a consultation with the Deputy Minister, surely this is in the right direction, I hope enough. Honestly, I doubt it. I also looked at the amendments to the Law that we made a few months ago, and I am not convinced that they sufficiently protect our people in this case, because the changes actually oblige the new owner within a month to register and make a change. I don't know what happens if he doesn't. And I don't know how he's supposed to do it in a month... By the way, before that, he had an obligation to make it quick, but they didn't. In my opinion, there is a presumption and an opportunity here, in case he does not, despite the obvious guilt of the new owner, that the old owner will again be held accountable, i.e. I am not sure that the changes that were made in the Law give an answer and resolve the case. That's one. Keep in mind that as far as I know today, or these days, there is a case going on, that is, the fact is that at least I get the statements of people who say that they have been convicted already and now have to have the last instance. I don't know if this case I'm dealing with is it really that way? Is the man innocent, isn't he? It's not my place to say that. I am telling you, however, that signals continue to come from people who claim to be innocent, that they have been condemned for 17 years. And the second is that as long as only one person gets convicted in this way innocently and he's in prison for 17 years, that's gonna be a drama. This drama now lies on your shoulders, meaning there is no one else to solve the problems accordingly. That's what I can do. I can ask the question to motivate a particular movement. Remember the case of Bulgarian medics in Libya and remember a former minister who then claimed that these were internal sentences and that Bulgaria could not do anything. Finally, it turned out that even Sarkozy could do something, that is, diplomacy always has some other means. I say this not to accuse you that this lies on you now, but that the responsibility, if it turns out that one or two or three people have been convicted, then in the same way as we remember Hope Mihaylova from 20 years ago, may remain you. I don't want to blame you, because for now I have no evidence of guilt. All I'm saying is that we have a responsibility... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. We all have a responsibility as people who currently represent the power not to allow any Bulgarian citizen to be convicted when he is innocent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u135	Dear Mr. Kutev, I'm going to miss the medical examiner's analogy to this case. I think it's totally inappropriate. Either way, I'm not running away from any responsibility. Whether the amendments to the law have been sufficient, I think it is the responsibility of the MPs. I hope, if they're not, and if they have to, there's gonna be another amendment. But that's not the point. We're talking about Greece. Yes, there is such a case there is a convicted Bulgarian, if I am not mistaken, at two instances. He didn't show up, he didn't get subpoenas, I mean, in absentia. After we agreed, we helped with the legal protection provided with the necessary evidence that he was not the current owner of the car. I hope for the positive decision of the final instance. We're certainly following every single case, and not just in consular activities. Not only with the consultations that have obviously taken place after I have answered your written question, but personally I, in two of the meetings that I have had, we often see each other with the former, the resigned foreign minister, knowing that they cannot have an impact on the judiciary, which is independent, as ours, yet I have raised this question with a request to take account of the specifics of the Bulgarian legislation, which may not have been restrictive enough for lack of responsibility if the new owner simply has not transferred his coupon. So we make absolutely every effort. It is no accident that I called on the Bulgarian citizens: if they receive such subpoenas, they should contact us immediately, or if they are in Bulgaria, with the Ministry, so that we can check what we are talking about, if they authorize us, we should help them, so that they can at the earliest stage, not worry, just supply this evidence, even if it does not come to an indictment at all, even in a phase of preliminary investigation. This is my call to immediately contact us, we will give our full cooperation so that we may not, God forbid, come to a judicial phase at all. In this case, it's just that this man didn't appear, didn't respond to the subpoenas at all, didn't provide any evidence, didn't have any legal protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Zaharieva is from the MP Vassil Tsvetkov about notifications from mobile operators about the Bulgarians who will travel abroad. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On 7 August this year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched a new service for all Bulgarian subscribers of Bulgarian mobile operators who travel abroad. On entering roaming, they receive a SMS with your ministry's 24-hour phone. I, like other colleagues of mine, have already received from these messages. In this regard, can you tell us: what is the effect of this service, how much it costs to the taxpayer and have you really helped our fellow citizens in distress?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetkov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tsvetkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This service was an initiative of the Ministry in order to facilitate the Bulgarian citizens who are travelling......................... they often look for these phones when they are under stress. That is, when you are under stress, not having to search the Internet, try to contact the Bulgarian authorities, and indeed, I stress, absolutely free of charge when leaving the country gets a SMS notification of which phone in case of need or in a crisis situation you could receive assistance from the Bulgarian State, in this case from the consular services. It's totally free, the same for the three mobile operators. Thank you for agreeing to send such notifications. In practice, our idea was to change the quality of the approach, that is to say that Bulgarian citizens should not just have our Situation Centre or the Crisis Center website, but should have full information. After this service was launched, it turned out that there was really a need, because in just one month of September 2018, compared to September 2017, there were eight times the calls on this phone from 204 people have become 1605. Normally, it's a tourist month. Among the most common reasons are Bulgarians or their relatives with lost or stolen documents, driver's licenses, stolen motor vehicles, medical assistance, arrest signals, health problems and so on. Dozens are the cases in which we have cooperated in such a situation. There were a lot of interesting cases, I couldn't list the dozens, even hundreds of cases in which we cooperated, but for example, very often truckers signal us. This is the wife of a trucker, worried that her husband is in a very severe mental and physical state. Immediately our employee in Sofia contacted the consul in the respective country and the ambulance was sent for no 15 minutes, after which we received gratitude from the wife. Also a truck driver who, obviously in stress, cannot find the emergency phone or the police of the country concerned or does not know, with doubt that his truck and trailer are being robbed. With GPS identification, the police intervened and caught the robbers on the scene. We've got a lot of phone calls. There have been fires, you know, in Greece for burnt-out personal documents in their vehicles. It's immediately reacted to by our consular services there. I hope at least the data and analyses show that this service facilitates the Bulgarian citizens completely free of charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. There's no line. There's no douche. This ended the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. Thank you for your participation in control today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u141	We continue with questions to Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. She will answer a question from the MPs Asya Peeva and Pavel Hristov about the results achieved for the summer season 2018 and expectations for the winter season. Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the main strategic goal in the work of your government is to make our country a year-round tourist destination. The steps to achieve this priority are laid down in the measures to increase the country's level of recognition as a destination with an extremely cultural and historical heritage, preserved nature and wealth of mineral springs in different compositions and temperature range, along with mass sea tourism. It is essential to upgrade the already developed summer and winter tourism product by extending the wings to the active summer and winter tourist season. In this regard, our question to you is as follows: what are the final results of the summer tourist season 2018, including the growth expected by you and how much are they in terms of May and September? What are the preliminary data and expectations for the upcoming winter season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u144	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Peeva, Dear Mrs. Hristov! By fulfilling the priorities set out in the Government Management Programme, the Ministry of Tourism has implemented a number of activities to ensure the best possible conditions for tourism development and the preservation of sustainable growth in the sector. The record results of the last three years clearly prove positive development in the industry. Part of the measures to improve the environment are related to reducing regional disproportions by extending the wing to the summer and winter season and upgradeing the main products, respectively summer and winter. According to the most recent data of BNB, the revenues from international tourism for the period January "September" this year amount to 3 billion. 200 million. EUR, with growth compared to the same months of 2017 being 7%. In the 10 months of 2018 more than 8 million. 400,000. are foreign tourist visits, they increased by nearly 5% compared to the same period a year earlier. With regard to your specific question about the data about the Wing of the Season and the Months of May and September, I inform you that only for May 2018 the total number of foreign tourist visits in Bulgaria is close to 715 thousand, the growth compared to May 2017 is 15.8%. The total number of tourist visits for the two months was close to 1 million in May and September. $700,000. Foreign tourists, or a total growth of 9.6%, with revenues from international tourism in total for the two months mentioned, amounting to nearly 680 million. EUR, or 7.3% growth compared to the previous year. The past summer tourist season was significantly successful, with the reported results confirming Bulgaria as a country with tangible progress in positioning the destination. Pre-season forecasts were largely realised. In June 2018 the total number of tourist visits to Bulgaria was nearly 5.5 million. The growth compared to the June 2017 September period is over 4%, and the important thing in this case was to create sustainability of the destination to validate the record results of the past two years. The other significant direction in terms of efforts to stimulate domestic tourism shows that in the period June 2018 about 41% of Bulgarian citizens who made their holiday chose vacations in the home country, half of them visited besides the Black Sea coast and the interior of the country. As you know, in order to optimally exploit the potential for the development of specialised tourism products, we are making specific targeted efforts to upgrade the measures in this direction. An example of this is the validation of cultural and historical destinations structured during the previous term, as well as the creation of wine and spa destinations that cover over 100 municipalities in the territory of all districts in the country. In this way we also create real economic opportunities to increase the living standards of local communities and expand the share of the tourism industry in the total gross domestic product. With regard to the upcoming winter season, I inform you that while maintaining sustainable growth levels in the sector, we also expect a successful season in which more than 5% increase in tourist visits will take place. Guests from the UK show a marked interest in winter vacation in Bulgaria. Traditionally strong interest and market is expected to have from Turkey, Greece, other Balkan countries, Russia, Israel, Germany and others. The Bulgarian market is also very important for this type of tourism. These forecasts should be considered in the context of the fact that last year's winter tourist season was the most successful since Bulgaria's entry into the European Union by number of visitors to foreign tourists. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For the period December 2017 March 2018 the total number of foreign tourists in Bulgaria was over 1 million. 650 thousand, which is 12% growth compared to the previous period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u145	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a cue, the People's Representative Asya Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u146	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. For us MPs, it is extremely important to have accurate and complete information on the implementation of the policies of the ministries. The data you have provided us is yet another proof that it is appropriate to assess the activities of the departments according to the specific results they achieve. Regarding the upcoming winter tourist season, you shared a forecast of expected growth within 5%, as well as specific markets that show a marked interest in our country. Would you inform the Members of the National Assembly of the number of scheduled flights, seat capacity and destinations for which they are planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Mrs. Peeva, Dear Mr. Hristov! According to the data at Sofia airport, which is mainly in terms of our winter tourism, together, of course, with Plovdiv Airport, the total number of planned flights for winter season 2018 is 8 thousand. 120, like last season, they were 8,000. 019. The total seat capacity of the flights for the upcoming winter season 2018 - 2019 is close to 1 million. Three hundred thousand. for Sofia airport, compared to the previous winter season there were 1 million. $250,000. The planned flights with regard to destinations are: for Great Britain Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u149	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Tourism is from the MPs Emilia Staneva and Alexander Matsurev. Mrs. Staneva will develop the issue. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the mandate of the government of Borisov 2, tourism was raised as a national priority and followed the creation of an independent office. The comparative analysis that we have done for the achieved parameters in terms of growth of foreign tourists, revenues from international tourism, to date, is a strong proof of the positive results of the sectoral policy that leads the Ministry of Tourism. It is extremely important to use this accumulated momentum and maintain a competitive level against an aggressive marketing policy of our direct competitors in this sector. After all, we live in a strong market economy. Confirming the achieved results that we have and turning them into an upward trend is a long-term strategic goal for the whole industry. In order to successfully implement this positive image, which we have so far, it is necessary to implement various marketing activities related to an intense pace that motivate tourists to continue to prefer Bulgaria as a destination for their holiday over our direct competitors on the tourist market. In this regard, I and my colleague Alexander Matsurev address you, Minister, with the following question: what communication campaigns will be carried out by the Ministry of Tourism to promote Bulgaria as a tourist destination for maintaining the positive trend and ensuring a sustainable growth of tourist visits during the current and next tourist seasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Madam Minister, we are waiting for your answer to a question about communication campaigns to promote destination Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u152	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Milkova, Dear Mrs. Matsurev! In implementation of the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 - 2021, the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism are aimed at implementing the sector priority for the establishment of the country as a year-round tourist destination with a high quality and diverse tourism product. I share your thesis on the importance of the challenge to exploit the accumulated momentum and to maintain the necessary degree of competitiveness against the aggressive market policy of our direct competitors. In order to confirm the achieved record results and turn them into a sustainable upward trend as a long-term strategic goal with the development of the industry, huge efforts are being made for optimal market positioning of Bulgaria on our main target generating perspective markets. In 2018, they were launched, and will continue in 2019, integrated communication campaigns on 16 targeted perspective markets - Germany, Great Britain, France, Greece, Serbia, Macedonia, Romania, Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. They will reach nearly 50 million people through digital channels, nearly 80 million people through external advertising and over 5 million people through printed advertising, which are an instrument for increasing the efficiency and efficiency of marketing activities and the market information offered on the Bulgarian tourism product at international level. In order to achieve sustainability of the expected results, integrated communication campaigns in countries of the Visegrad Four are planned to be built in 2019 - Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, neighbouring countries of Bulgaria - Greece, Serbia, Macedonia, Romania and Turkey, as well as Israel, France, USA and China. The focus is on the main products - winter and summer tourism product, combined with specialized forms of tourism such as cultural-recognizing tours, spa and spa, wine and gourmet, eco and rural, etc. The periods and topics that are promoted are selected on the basis of specialized analyses for consumers of each of the markets. We continue to follow the line of strategic partnerships with leading international tour operators such as TUI and Thomas Cook, with which in the period December 2017. In September 2018, advertising shares were carried out to promote the sales of 12 major European target markets "Germany, Russia, Great Britain, Benelux, France, North and Central Europe" by broadcasting videos and interior and digital advertising campaigns in their channels. The forecasts are to reach over 30 million impressions and a 25% increase in bookings. In May, July 2018 a campaign was held on targeted and promising markets in the TV and digital network of leading global media, such as: CNN,........................................................................................................... We are working in an environment of fierce international competition, but the achieved third consecutive year record results of international tourists and revenues are categorically proof that our efforts are in the right direction. Maintaining these trends is a binding factor and a commitment to continue to maintain a steady pace of activity to achieve sustainability and stability at growth levels in the sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u153	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Milkova, do you have a line? No. This concludes the questions to Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. We move on to questions from MPs to Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, who will answer, first, a question from the National Representative Plamen Nunev. It is about international operational cooperation in the conduct of the joint operation with the German authorities for the arrest of the perpetrator of the brutal murder in Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In early October 2018, a criminal assault and murder of 30-year-old Victoria Marinova was committed in the town of Ruse and led by an administrative director in one of the local television stations. A large-scale operation was launched following an alert from citizens at the Second District Police Department to clarify all the facts and circumstances regarding the brutal abuse and identification of the perpetrator. Thanks to the interaction between the Bulgarian institutions in the face of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the investigating authorities, as well as with the participation of the international operational interaction and cooperation, the perpetrator was detained in Germany. This grave, brutal crime has caused an extremely serious public and international response. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: how was this international police cooperation carried out to respond with a slightly more specific detail regarding the joint operation with the German authorities regarding the detention of the perpetrators of the crime Severin Krasimirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u156	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Nunev! In the beginning of October this year the whole Bulgarian public was shocked by the news of the assault and cruel murder of the 30-year-old woman from the town of Ruse. The nature of this crime has gained an extremely broad international response. During the course of the investigation, the necessary actions were taken to form a headquarters and teams to carry out a number of operational and search activities such as in view of the crime scene, working with witnesses who were in the area or who were passing through there, a tour of the area with a view to finding video cameras, taking their records, working with mobile operators and many other operational and investigative activities. During the initial examination, numerous crime scene findings were seized, including from the victim's body, who were subsequently assigned to the Institute of Forensics of the Ministry of Interior. A DNA profile of the possible perpetrator was drawn up and Interpol, Europol and a number of partner services were informed in urgent operational order. Upon receiving more specific evidence of empathy for the crime committed, alerts were created for monitoring in the Schengen Information System. On 9 October 2018, on the basis of the European Arrest Warrant issued by the District Prosecutor's Office, Ruse, the potential perpetrator has been declared an international search for arrest and extradition purposes and the SIRENE Bureau in Germany has been informed in a timely manner. Immediately through the Directorate of the International Operational Cooperation at the Ministry of Interior of German colleagues are provided the possible three addresses to which the person is probably hiding. Contact has also been made with the German unit under a European network for active search for fugitives. The search teams shall be provided with available details of addresses, vehicle and persons associated with the perpetrator. In order to establish an organization for the rapid and timely identification and detention of the suspect in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, the operation includes German liaison officers in Bulgaria. The information available was also provided to the overseas representative of the Ministry of Interior in Berlin, who in turn achieved immediate coordination with representatives of the Federal Criminal Service in Germany. The German authorities have been notified of the high public danger of the wanted person, the high public interest in the quick discovery of the perpetrator of the crime, and the possibility of hiding it. Thanks to the co-ordination carried out on the same day, the German authorities formed mobile groups to identify and detain the wanted person. The search and rescue events found that the person was hiding at his mother's address in Stade, Lower Saxony. The last 10 hours of the operation under my direct authority through the Director of the International-Operative Cooperation Directorate and the Bulgarian liaison officers in real time were exchanged information with the German authorities and special police units who carried out the detention operation. To conclude, I would like to stress that it is in such cases that it is very clear what a European security system means and the instruments it offers when communicating with other European countries and police for the detection and detention of perpetrators of such serious crimes. The immediate reaction of all units and real-time coordination led, in fact, to the successful discovery of the crime and detention of the perpetrator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u158	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. Apparently, the preliminary information that the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Ruse had resulted in the rapid and adequate actions of the Ministry of Interior, given the international police cooperation. My additional and supplementary question, Minister, has it been used in full extent all operational and search activities that concern the detection of such a serious criminal offence and what is your assessment of the work of local police structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to fill in your reply, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u160	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Nunev! The assessment of the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Ruse is excellent in relation to this case, but I would not like to miss the work of the Directorate-General of National Police and the team that was created under the leadership of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Ruse. It was precisely this that made it possible to organise in a rapid and operational manner all operational and investigative activities and investigative activities, as it became clear in the course of the work that international cooperation would be necessary, for which the relevant legislative documents must be drawn up quickly and that the prosecution should issue precisely such an order. A number of clues were taken from the scene, including DNA material, which required a quick reaction from the Institute of Forensics. My colleagues did very well. In parallel, we've been working on finding the perpetrator's criminal connections, possible addresses where he might hide out. A problem arose that there were three addresses in Germany that were in three different provinces, and you know that there the legislation in each province was different, so such coordination was also necessary. Within nine to ten hours, communication with German colleagues was extremely active because, in order to proceed to such detention, they used special units, used special equipment and teams of police forces. It requires, above all, trusting the information that we submit and a good exchange of information in real time, as the perpetrator himself, within those hours of hiding, had taken various action on movement and attempts to hide himself from the authorities. Once again, I note that it is very important within the European Union the security system and the instruments it has created work excellently, and are a guarantee for the rapid capture of such perpetrators of serious crimes. The other actions we have taken, of course, cannot share them in such a meeting, as they concern the principles of operational search activities which are secret. Once again, I would like to use the National Assembly stands to thank all my fellow Members who have worked to solve the case, as it was of utmost importance, apart from reaching the perpetrator, to proceed to his physical detention, as he was likely to commit another such crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question of the MPs Dimitar Boychev Petrov and Diana Dimova Savateva. It is about actions by the Ministry of Interior to assist four Bulgarian border guards, current and former officials of the Ministry, in connection with a trial in Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Currently, there is a criminal trial in the Republic of Turkey against four Bulgarian citizens, two of whom are current employees of your office. The other two have left the system. The case is related to an accident in 2008, when all four of them were members of the Border Police and acted in the performance of their duties. On 17 April 2008, in the region of Rezovo, the four border guards attempted to retain a Turkish gemia with poachers of turbots, which violated our maritime border. The crew disobeyed the police order. In the situation, an accidental shot was fired and one of the poachers died. Pre-trial proceedings were conducted in Bulgaria, which was terminated by the Prosecutor's Office after assessment that the employees carried out their duties by law and there was no crime committed by them. This has also been confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The European magistrates have rejected a complaint from relatives of the fallen Turkish citizen. Despite these indisputable facts, Turkey is taking a case against Mikhail Tsonkov, who fired the shot, as well as the other three of the crew, the case is currently in progress. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what is the position of the Ministry of Interior on this issue and have you taken action to support the Bulgarian citizens who were your employees at the time of the incident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, Dear Mr. Boychev, Ministry of Interior and in particular the Directorate-General of Border Police at the Ministry of Interior stood firmly in support of the four Bulgarian citizens. The actions taken by the Ministry of Interior to those involved in the operation shall be as follows: First of all, for professionalism and long-term results achieved in the official work, by Order No K-6831 of 10 December 2008, they were awarded with a declaration of gratitude and additional paid annual leave of five working days by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior under the Act in force on the Ministry of Interior. Second, by order No 8121p-23416 of 16 November 2018, the Minister of the Interior has launched a donation in the structures of the Ministry for the raising of funds to support their legal protection. Third, following an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Material Assistance at the Ministry of Interior on 6 November 2018, Orders No 8121h-1438 of 8 November 2018 and No 8121h-1439 of 8 November 2018, the two active employees were allocated cash of 8 thousand. lv. for each of them to pay fees to Turkish lawyers necessary for their procedural representation before the Turkish court. I am using this case again to assure all of you that it will be a top priority for me as Minister of Interior to defend the activities of the Ministry of Interior's employees when they have fulfilled their professional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sawateva, are you going to make a line or are you going to supplement the question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The information that four Bulgarian citizens are indicted in Turkey, two of them acting border police officers and two other former officials, really worried the Bulgarian society. We as MPs from Burgas cannot be only emotionally engaged, we are also engaged in solving the case to the end. Therefore, I would like to thank you, Mr. Minister, because literally hours after the meeting we had together with colleague Boychev at the Ministry of Interior, the procedure for completing the relevant documents was initiated so that the two active employees could be given financial assistance. You mentioned that it was 8,000. BGN, which are necessary for the protection during the case in Turkey. In fact, days after this meeting the amount was transferred to the two, I think Nikolay Kostov, who is active, and Zhivko Petkov, who is also an active border police officer. Thanks to this transferred amount, a lawyer has already been involved to represent our border guards and our Bulgarian citizens during the trial, which is held in the severe criminal court in Kirklarelli. This is important because regardless of the efforts made by a Bulgarian country, a criminal process in Turkey is under way and we must comply with this undisputed fact. Of course, financial assistance is a key factor in continuing a favourable solution to this case. Therefore, my supplementary question will be related to this. There is a long process that will continue, most likely at second and third instance. He's in first instance right now. Is the Ministry of Interior ready to continue its commitment if necessary to grant additional financial assistance? To conclude, I would like to say that this assistance is very important, which is already a fact, but along with this, as you yourself said, is important and the sign that has been given. During the meeting the border police themselves stressed that support is a sign not only for them, but also for all those employees who are currently on the border and at all all the employees of the system, because it is essential that they feel that the state is behind them at crisis moments, and the work of each of the Ministry of Interior employees is related to such moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? You have the opportunity to relate to the line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Savateva and I would like to thank you and Mr. Boychev for the extremely active position on this issue, because it was you who put the issue in the National Assembly by this platform for the protection of these colleagues, for their full and dignified public debt. As soon as it became clear that there was a case in a Turkish court, the Republic's chief prosecutor personally had a conversation with me. I was the Secretary-General at the time. We have specified actions, he stood entirely behind the protection of our employees, so we also have his full support. I believe that in this case there should also be the full support of the society in the Republic of Bulgaria, as it is about employees who guard the state border. Today this sounds even more responsible because you know what are the last security challenges not only of Bulgaria, but also of the European Union, namely the security of the external borders for the European Union. I declare that we will continue to seek any means of support until this case is resolved for the benefit of the employees. We will continue both with the opportunities given by the Ministry of Interior Act and the regulations and with the initiative regarding the collection of funds in the framework of fundraising campaigns for financial and moral support and as a position of colleagues who are struggling to prove their right. I call on the public once again, and everyone is free to donate what they think they can do in defence of these colleagues within this donation campaign. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control and for the answers. That was all about you. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture, who will answer a question to the MP Evgeni Budinov about providing status for real and cultural values. Here you are, Mr. Budinov, to develop your first question to Minister Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly raise a question concerning the granting of the status of real cultural values. Dear Minister, in Bulgaria at present there are approximately 40,000 buildings of real cultural values, although this number gives us the highest number of cultural values among European countries, there are still many of them with temporary status of declared values. This puts their protection at risk and creates conditions for inappropriate construction interventions against them. It is of great importance for the preservation of cultural heritage in Bulgaria that as soon as possible all declared sites will be registered under the Law on Cultural Heritage in force since 2009, to clarify their cultural significance and create specific provisions for their conservation, territorial scope and regimes. In this regard, my question to you is: for the period from May 2017 to the present time, how much is the status of real cultural value on the basis of art. Article 14 65 of the Cultural Heritage Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u171	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Mr. Minister, you are welcome to answer the question of the MP Evgeni Budinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Budinov! A priority for the Ministry of Culture is the preservation of the cultural heritage of Bulgaria. The activity of search, study and preparation of preliminary and final evaluation shall be carried out by the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. For the period from 1 May 2017 to 6 December 2018 114 sites are granted the status of real cultural property on the basis of art. Article 14 65 of the Cultural Heritage Act. Of these 34 sites are of national importance, 79 sites are of local importance, 2 sites for information. In addition, 18 sites have updated conservation regimes, conservation prescriptions and/or changed name, category and qualification. In this regard, 12 meetings of the specialized Expert Council for the Protection of Cultural Heritage were held, and its main function is to assist the administrative body in the decision-making of providing, withdrawing the status of cultural values. In order to achieve full transparency in matters of great public importance in the field of cultural heritage and in view of the public interest of 25 August 2017, the meetings of the specialised expert council shall be public and shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the Ministry of Culture. With the latest changes to the Law on Cultural Heritage, real-time broadcasting was also given as a regulatory requirement. The process of examining the heritage, which precedes the procedure for granting the status of real cultural values, is, for the most part, carried out by the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. The Institute's insufficient numerical composition so far has not allowed for the expansion of research activities. The opportunities of the Cultural Heritage Act have been used in the period you mentioned, and many external experts have been involved in this process, who have assisted the work of the Institute. Since May 2017, the Ministry of Culture has repeatedly highlighted as its priority the optimization of work and improvement of working conditions at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. In addition to increased remuneration funds by 150 thousand. lv. In 2018, a 10% increase in employee remuneration is envisaged in 2019, 250 thousand. lv. For current alimony, 250 grand. lv. additional capital expenditure which is essential for strengthening the expert potential of the Institute for the establishment of better conditions for the implementation of the national policy on the protection of real cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Budinov, do you have a line on the answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Banov, Dear colleagues! Thank you for that answer. I am glad that you are working hard in this direction and I am absolutely satisfied with your response. I hope you'll continue this way from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u175	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? There's nothing to add to the back. The next question to Mr. Minister of Culture is also from the MP Evgeni Budinov and is about Bulgaria's progress in the field of intellectual property protection. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly raise a question about Bulgaria's progress in the field of intellectual property protection. Dear Minister, information was announced at the beginning of May this year about the removal of the Republic of Bulgaria from the Monitoring List of the US Trade Representative under section "Special 301" of the U.S. Commercial Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. The exit of our country from the negative list, after being part of it for five years, is the result of the serious efforts of the institutions involved, including the Ministry of Culture. This assessment of Bulgaria's real progress in the field of intellectual property protection is undoubtedly a positive sign for foreign investors. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will you take within your competence so that Bulgaria does not re-enter the list of countries with an unsatisfactory level of protection of intellectual property rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u177	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Budinov! The removal of Bulgaria from the Monitoring List of the US Trade Representative, better known as "List 301" is the result of the actions taken by many institutions after which the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Culture, the Customs Agency and others. The Ministry of Culture's commitment to protecting the rights of artists has both a cultural and economic dimension. Effective protection is key to realizing the added value of copyright legal industries in the country's economy. In order to implement its policies, the Ministry of Culture maintains key partnerships with collective management organisations, with the industry concerned and with human rights organisations. One of the highlights in our work is overcoming the pirate distribution in television programs. Indicated in the previous reports of the US Government under List 301. The Council for the Protection of Intellectual Property is also involved with policy in this area. The fight against the unresolved distribution of television programmes will also rely on the enhanced interaction between the Ministry of Culture through the Department of Copyright and its related rights and the Specialized Department of Cybercrime at the Directorate of the Ministry of Culture. Currently, the teams of the two institutions are developing an action plan to combat systemic offenders. I expect the first joint implementations to come true before the end of the year. It is essential to maintain a favourable environment for the creation and realization of creative products to achieve a balance in relations between first carriers and users. In this regard, the Ministry of Culture puts in special efforts to maintain a fair legal framework corresponding to the Community rules and international treaties to which Bulgaria is a country. A new policy of the Ministry is the control over the work of collective management organisations whose activities are of systemic importance. The publication of information on the first of its kind audits of the activities of these organizations is forthcoming and we plan to turn this into a routine activity. Higher efficiency is also sought in the pursuit of the most massive violations. I expect our annual statistics to demonstrate the progress made. This year, for the first time under enhanced supervision, the settlement of rights in the field of performing arts was found where a number of violations were found. The measures taken will protect the rights of playwrights, translators, the recovery of the sector will give a clear indication of the existence of the will to enforce a law according to the use of protected copyright sites. Our vision implies achieving stable and balanced legislation, increasing the effectiveness of control and enforcement, achieving good general awareness in the environment and extending the collective copyright protection carried out by civil law. I believe that the results achieved will be taken into account in the annual reports on the state of the environment, including by foreign observers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Banov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, thank you for that answer. I'm very pleased with him. I'm glad you're working on it. I hope that your efforts will continue from now on and I myself, being from the Guild of Artists, say that when I talk to my colleagues and people, the difference is felt and the innovative changes in this respect are felt and thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-07.u181	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? There won't be. With this, honourable Members, we have exhausted the Weekly Program. I'm going to introduce you to the delayed answers. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two questions from the MPs Petar Vitanov and Milko Nedyalkov and three questions with written answer from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on five questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov on three questions, and Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev. - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova at one request from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Nikolay Ivanov, Manol Genov, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Polina Tsankova-Hristova and Pencho Milkov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov does not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev did not participate. We've run out of the Weekly Program with this. The next regular meeting is on 12 December 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
