ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, today is June 1st "Children's Day." Let's wish our children to be healthy, happy and carefree, and let's just stay little children! Tomorrow is June 2nd - Day of Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria, a day when we kneel before the sacrifice of the thousands of known and unknown countrymen who shed their blood in the struggles for national liberation. As chairman of the National Initiative Committee to celebrate the 170th anniversary of the birth of Hristo Botev, I present to each of you a calendar with his face, so that we do not forget his heard courage, unimitable poetic genius and charisma. Botev is untouchable to both blasphemers and flatterers. He keeps our conscience awake and makes us realize that the physical demise is just a step towards the immortality of the spirit. The Fatherland says Lamartin is made of the dust of the dead........................ Bow to their memory! Colleagues, we are continuing with today's plenary day program. Declaration. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's June 1st again, and we're celebrating International Child's Day. The celebration came as a result of the World Conference on the welfare of children held in Geneva in August 1925, attended by representatives of 54 countries who join forces, accept and sign the Geneva Convention. It promotes equal rights for children in the field of education, education, social protection, physical and spiritual development, regardless of the color of the skin, national belonging, property status. The basic principle in the UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child states: "Humankind is obliged to give the child its best. Children are the most important thing, children are our future, our pride, our hope, but also our responsibility. They deserve today to be beautiful, to have security and support, a stable environment here and now. We're theirs yesterday, and they're ours tomorrow, but where are we now? We will probably declare again that we are doing or will do everything for the future of the children of Bulgaria, but is that really the case? I'm going to remind you of a few known facts. Bulgarian parents have the lowest income in the European Union. It affects the family, too. The relative share of poor Bulgarian children is 32%, which makes about 380 thousand Bulgarian children. There's no way their numbers are going down. Half of Bulgarian children do not go on vacation, 43% of them do not play sports, 33% of them do not have a suitable place to study and write their homework, 35% admit that they can not afford to buy a book and shoes. Bulgarian children are among the sickest in Europe. The facts are very and frightening, but I will mention only one: the incidence of active tuberculosis among children by the age of 17 is 14.4 per hundred thousand children. And that's in the 21st century! Nearly 1/3 of Bulgarians do not eat daily fruit or fresh vegetable due to lack of funds from their parents. Bulgarian children are back in European rankings in education. In the last year alone, over 17,000. children have left school. Schools in the country divided dramatically into mass and elitist. The existing system of private lessons has shown that the educational system suffers from systemic shortcomings that are paid at the cost of children's nerves and thin parental budgets. The successes of our children in prestigious universities and mathematical Olympiads are real and visible and are not thanks, but despite the educational system in Bulgaria. The mechanism for joint work of institutions covering and holding in the educational system of children and students of compulsory pre-school and school age found that by 2017. 206,000 children and students aged 5 to 18 have dropped out or have never been enrolled in kindergarten or school. The reasons are complex. One of them was the closure of schools, even the World Bank found that every indoor school increased significantly the share of the students who didn't attend and drop out of school. Today in Bulgaria the general education system is characterized by a relatively low average result of students' knowledge and skills, with a large share of results below the critical minimum, with a relatively small share of high results, 40% of 15-year-old students are illiterate. Bulgaria is in the last places in the European Union on reading and mathematical literacy. There are high regional inequalities in access to quality education, there are whole areas in the country where schools have more limited material and personnel resources for a quality learning process. The problem is also the different social status of parents. The scope of children in kindergartens is key, but every fifth Bulgarian child is not covered in compulsory preschool education. One of the main reasons for this is the financial barrier, the high fees for kindergartens. On this occasion, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has for years proposed mandatory pre-school preparation to be free of charge for families. Another is the bad organization. In large cities there are no places in kindergartens and parents are forced to fight real wars and participate in corruption schemes to enroll their child in kindergarten. In the capital they draw lots to enroll their child in the first grade. A child's future can't depend on lots. Bulgarian youths do not see the prospect of staying in Bulgaria. They know that if they stay with us, they'll live worse than their parents. Each year, thousands of young people and young families emigrate with their children. Today, dozens of children, parents and people with disabilities participate in a palace camp in front of the National Assembly. It is obvious that there is only talk of a change in policies aimed at children with disabilities, but real actions are missing and the vulnerable do not feel or see a change in the attitudes of power. They say, "The system is killing us." The country's average success in caring for children is 2.88, according to the 2018 Report, prepared by the National Network for Children. They say, "We live in a country that gradually kills their children. There are opportunities, there are means, but nothing is done. It is looking at money, towards highways, and what should be invested in the future of the state for children is not done. These negative trends have been growing particularly strongly over the past decade. We all know whose government runs this country during this period. For this reason, we address the representatives of the ruling coalition in particular: offer and adopt such laws as to show that you care for all the children of Bulgaria and not only for the chosen ones; do not take loans that will be returned to the next generations [[GERB loud noise]] ; don't just declare that education is a priority, but make sure that children go to school with joy and get real knowledge; stop the vicious system "Money follows the student"; seek the health system in a way where the parent does not draw credit if his child gets sick; free medical care is not only on paper, the key to the health of the nation is prevention and healthy lifestyle; direct more funds to state and municipal schools [[GERB loud noise]] because there is raised a huge part of the future Bulgarian citizens; let every Bulgarian child have a chance to receive quality education regardless of the financial opportunities of his parents; make the security system such that it is not dangerous when our children go out with peers or go home at night. As a representative of the parliamentary opposition, I say to you that if you do this, you will meet our full support! Happy holiday, little, big and even older children! I agree with the maxim that every optimist lives in a child and hope that the education of children brings them optimism. I wish that the children of Bulgaria will have a chance to live their lives as they think they are well, to have the opportunity and encouragement for every challenge they take, to dream bravely and to achieve everything with ease, to be blessed with a fabulous childhood. Let this dedicated day worry give way to the faith that together we can make our children's lives better because it is our historical responsibility to be worthy of our children. I will end with the words of my favorite Bulgarian author Ivo Ivanov Happy and wonderful holiday to all of you! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mrs. Damyanova, you have the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I know a planet with a red-headed gentleman, he's never smelled a flower, he's never looked at a star, he's never loved anyone, he's never done anything but bills, he's been saying like you all day: I'm a serious person, I'm a serious person and he's inflated with pride, but it's not a person, it's a sponge. My fellow Members, whenever I hear the declaration of fellow socialists, I remember this quote from the Little Prince of Antoine de Saint-Exupery. It is time to change, ladies and gentlemen on the left, the record that nothing is being done, that everything is a scam, that everything is lobbying and everything is to blame GERB. It's time to stop and look around. Maybe then you'll see that your chaotic charges create confusion, but only here on the yellow pavement, with us, and the agenda of the people is quite different. You are the bad guys, and we are the good guys a long time ago. In GERB we work for policies, results and solutions to the challenges. [[Applause from GERB.]] Enough with the verbal fireworks on different subjects. You don't impress anyone with them, but by directing problems, you create senseless tensions that we all bear responsibility for. We understand that it is not very convenient to say that the consistent policy of GERB provides opportunities for every child to be in kindergarten and school, and this is not a policy of recent months, ladies and gentlemen, it is a policy consistent with recent years. By the way, we are talking about bringing the children back to class because when we, GERB, were not here, some of those present on the left today in this hall have allowed such a problem at all. For children today there are activities, there are full-time training, there are scholarships, there are free textbooks, already electronic, there are national and European-funded programmes for development of activities for interests, for development of talents and so on and so on. Is that enough? Of course it isn't. The most normal thing is a party that takes on specific commitments and fulfills them, wants more, especially for the education of our children. We work for this more every day with small and larger steps. So much for that. Now allow me, on behalf of GERB, to congratulate all children, young and grown, with the Day of the Child 1 June. A day when laughter and joy rule, a day of colors, smiles and songs. Remember that each of us is a child and do not let the years and unclean thoughts break the wings of hope! I started with a quote from Exupery and I will end with a not less famous quote from Alan Mill's Bear Pooh, with which I congratulate all children: Remember, you are braver than you believe, stronger than you look, and smarter than you think! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We'll continue with the messages. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is as follows. Two weeks ago, I submitted a written question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov concerning the provision of agrostatistical information on the production of vegetables in the open air and greenhouse production and the production of fruits in two periods: from 1980 to 1989 and from 2010 to 2017. On 18 May I received from the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Karayancheva an answer-no, as I quote: The information you require through your question about the production of vegetables and fruits in the open air and greenhouse production for...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u7	Mr. Georgiev, excuse me, short and clear the procedural question as defined in the Rules of Procedure. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Two minutes if he talks about the procedural matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u8	..doesn't concern the immediate activity of the Minister. Look, yesterday we had a hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry precisely on the new common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u9	Please refer to the Rules of Procedure. [[Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u10	What does that look like now?! Let him explain the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u11	Mr. Chairman, I think this is important after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u12	It is important, but there is another line in the Rules for the discussion of such issues, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u13	I believe that Mrs. Karayancheva has been misled. In this case, the information I requested shall correspond to art. 95, para. 1. I have requested this information in another order, but I say again, with yesterday's inquiry and hearing of the Minister regarding the future common agricultural policy, these issues are important, as it is clearly said that Member States will have a sole responsibility to conduct policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Please do not abuse the procedure point of order. Go ahead, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u15	Mr President, I do not agree at all with the fact that we are talking about abuse of procedure and the way the procedure is conducted. When administrators of the National Assembly because the decision is signed by Tsveta Karayancheva, but currently administrators in the National Assembly allow themselves to decide whether a particular issue should pass or not. The colleague wanted to say just that.. that there is inadequate action of the administration of the National Assembly, sealed with the signature of Ms. Karayancheva. This procedure not only makes sense, it is becoming a sharp deficit in my opinion in the work of the National Assembly, and this, of course, is the work of the President and must be put exactly the way in which the colleague is putting it, because this is not a single case. I could list a lot of returned questions with absolutely inadequate grounds in my opinion, such as my question to Boyko Borisov from last week, which was returned because, you see, he was not referring to Boyko Borisov, but to the Deputy Prime Minister. The issue is that on June 12th and 14th, now in New York City, a meeting is held at the United Nations at the eleventh meeting of the States Signing the Convention on Disabilities. Bulgaria, by the way, has signed the Convention, but has not signed the ratification. This meeting is held under the Presidency of Bulgaria, and it turned out that Bulgaria does not have a delegation there, nor a panelist, nor a proposal for nine members of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Whose problem is that?! Is this Valeri Simeonov's or the Prime Minister's?! Here is a typical case in which it is said that officials in the National Assembly, under which Mrs. Karayancheva is signed, in fact, are clearly violating the Rules of Procedure for me. The regulations say that the Prime Minister can and must be called to parliamentary control. It doesn't say anything about him coming if he wants to. The procedure is absolutely appropriate. I think measures should be taken by the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I didn't interrupt you just so you wouldn't accuse me of having a personal relationship with you. But what you just said has nothing to do with the procedure as defined in our Rules of Procedure. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There has been a notification by importers of a bill on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules on Organization and Work of the National Assembly: We withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-22, submitted by the National Representative Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs. Messages: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that it has authorised the passage through the inland waterways into the Bulgarian section of the Danube River to a training vessel from the composition of the Military of the Republic of Serbia in the periods from 31 May 2018 to 3 June 2018 and from 7 June 2018 to 11 June 2018 inclusive. The purpose of sailing is to conduct training and visit the Romanian Naval Academy in the city of Constanta and at the headquarters of the Romanian river fleet distributed to the city of Braila. The notification was received on 31 May 2018. No 803-09-30 and granted to the Defence Committee. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for participation in a joint exercise of the Special Operations Forces of the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Bulgaria, Romania and the Republic of Serbia in the Hellenic Republic for the period from 31 May 2018 to 9 June 2018 by its order he has authorised the dispatch of servicemen by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment and equipment. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 31 May 2018. No 803-09-32 and granted to the Defence Committee. New questions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 31 May 2018. A question was received from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Ilieva Yankova, Valentina Naydenova, Milko Nedyalkov to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, concerning the state of the forest roads. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 8 June 2018. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova. - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova about the activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. You have the floor, Professor Klisarova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! In accordance with art. 75, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education, evaluation and accreditation are intended to stimulate higher schools to increase their potential, to increase and maintain the quality of the offered education. There must be a clear and accurate evaluation system ensuring the determination of an objective and correct assessment. Is that right now? Many evidences have come to me in the form of facts, legal proceedings and complaints by higher schools about the content and conduct of the accreditation procedure. I'd unite them in three or four directions. First direction: from 2017 there are not four, but ten criteria called standards. The experts themselves, in their words, clearly say: they represent insufficient professional translation of foreign specimens, some of which sound inadequate for the Bulgarian environment. Secondly, the admission of conflict of interest in the formation of expert groups and assessment, sometimes having personal, deliberate motives for evaluating programmes and structures depending on the participants in these groups. Thirdly, the existing system of accreditation of higher schools, which includes institutional/programme accreditations, absorbs an undue amount of time, energy and financial resources of higher schools. For example, for a medium-sized university there are about 50 accreditation procedures per year or every week for one procedure. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures are you going to take so that the activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency exclude the possibility of subjectively assessing the extent to which the criteria are met by the university and ensure objectivity in procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Klisarova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First, a happy holiday to all children and to all wise men who have not lost the child in themselves! Answer the question. Professor Klisarova, I believe that in order for there to be more added value than the parliamentary control procedure, I do not need to read you all the answer that the administration has prepared for me. In order for there to be more added value, this should be a relatively spontaneous discussion where everyone expresses their vision, because otherwise I have to inform you of facts that I suppose you are well aware of. I do not need to introduce you to what is the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, where its existence and work in law is arranged, and I do not need to introduce you to the specific procedures of the institutional accreditation of the Medical University. Paraskev Stoyanov "in Varna" as well as specific solutions related to one or another professional direction. I note that if there are disputes concerning them, they are subject to judicial review. In some cases, the Court has fully confirmed the Commission's decision, in other cases it has returned the assessment of the consideration. Of course, the Agency claims that the assessment is carried out on the basis of clear and transparent criteria and procedures that this is a fact have been made on the Agency's website. I should only draw attention to the fact that, following an external review conducted in September 2017, by the European Association for Quality assurance of Higher Education, the Agency has received the highest assessment of its activities, which gives the right to continue its full membership in the organisation for the longest possible period Is the essence of the question necessary to change something? A moment ago Professor Stanilov informed me that in the Committee on Education and Science such a debate had already started................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I welcome such a debate. If you have specific proposals, if you need any assistance from me or from the administration, in particular the Ministry of Education and Science, you can count on such assistance. I believe the subtext of the question, if someone is dissatisfied with a decision of the agency in question, didn't mean in any way to influence her to change her mind? This would be contrary to any basic and institutional approach. It is an independent institution that must take decisions on the basis of expert criteria, not under political action. The point of the conversation is whether something needs to change? As far as I can see, not only from your opinion, but also from what I have heard from other MPs, some change is necessary. Let's start the debate on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, you have the floor for a line, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, I want to thank you for what you said because this was just one specific example, and there is really a need to modernise this accreditation system and to ease its regime. I said 50 accreditations at a university for a reason. We need to think about how this is going to happen, because we need to relieve the universities so they can have more time for the students, not for their accreditation evaluation. Secondly, in modern life, let us still submit electronically and make an electronic platform in an accreditation system. This will facilitate the work of both universities and the Commission itself, and will lead to greater objectivity. In terms of human resources. Yes, let us allow young people to participate in this accreditation in these committees, which will also ensure the introduction of new models in the field of higher education and accreditation. I think we can start a debate like this, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u22	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Dear Mr. Donchev, the coat? You don't want to. Thank you for your participation today, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are continuing with the next question, which is to Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. The first question is from the National Representative Pencho Milkov and about compliance with the rules of movement in Bulgaria by the drivers of motor vehicles with foreign registration. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we are witnessing how motor vehicles with foreign registration in the whole country do not comply with the rules on road traffic, especially the rules on speed, ahead, stopping and parking. This question has been repeatedly put to me by citizens in my capacity as MP and member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. People point out in general that this rude disregard for the Rules of Movement by foreign leaders borders and represents in fact an open disrespect for the country, the state of Bulgaria and our society. This is a special problem for the citizens of Ruse region, where a lot of cars are moving from Romania and trucks to the Danube Bridge daily, mainly with Turkish and other registrations. In this regard, I ask for your answer to the following: are also provided for what specific measures to address this problem, how the responsibility of the drivers is realized, are they looking for ways for them to be able to leave our country only after payment of the fine due at the border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Milkov! First of all, happy children's holiday, actually their parents'! Let's give them a smiley day and not just today, as Mrs. Damyanova called! The question of compliance, Mr. Milkov, of the Rules of Movement in Bulgaria by the drivers of motor vehicles with foreign registration is applied in the Project for a new Law on Road Traffic. You know that we are currently making three new laws, so the new Road Traffic Act, which was published for public discussion on 20 April this year, provides for the following regulations. I'll highlight what we're taking action for. First, in order to ensure the safety of the movement in the future and to stop the administrative violations, forced administrative measures are applied. The temporary withdrawal of the driving licence of a driver without an address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, to which a fine has been imposed with a ticket or a criminal decree until its payment. Secondly, criminal decrees issued to persons without an address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be paid immediately after service and subject to appeal after payment of the fine imposed. Once she's paid, then they should go and appeal her. Third, the fine imposed with a ticket per person without an address registration shall be paid immediately after its issue. Fourth, when issuing an electronic ticket and declaring a motor vehicle with a driving licence by a person without a permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria to be provided in the respective territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior a written declaration containing, in addition to the names, the permanent address of the person who committed the infringement, a copy of his driving licence and a copy of the identity card or passport. Fifthly, the road vehicle registered in another country whose owner has restored its normal residence in the Republic of Bulgaria may move on the territory of the country within 6 months of issuing the relevant document. A change of art is also envisaged. 59, para. 4 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. There we added that the criminal decrees issued for violations of the Road Traffic Act, committed by persons without an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, are subject to appeal under the order laid down by the Road Traffic Act. I mean, we don't violate their rights either. This is in the new changes, and I thank you for bringing this up, because at the moment everyone is suffering from it. Those who really do not pay the fines, which are offenders, who do not have registration in the territory of the country, but all this has been seen and in these five points that I have listed before you, we hope to capture all these offenders and they will bear their responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u26	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u27	Dear Minister, I am familiar with the draft new law that we are waiting for and has been referred to in the Internal Commission. I saw it published for public discussion and I expected you to summarize these measures. However, at the present time and at the past, there has been an order in which to ensure that this awareness of impunity is not reached in those who regularly visit our country and are foreign citizens. We're witnessing this. Because there is a European Framework Agreement for the Cross-border Implementation of Penal Orders or Fines, it is regulated and that is why Bulgarian carriers, driving in other countries, know very well that allowing violation of border rules can remain without a car. Stop them until they pay. And if it is with a criminal decree and allowed to return, with very high interest rates and appreciation it will be awarded to them in Bulgaria. So I think we're talking about years of missing, where there was order, and we should have been a lot more active. I hope that the new law will eventually enter the National Assembly and this problem will be resolved soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, I'm only taking the coat to stress the importance of the matter. We do, and so far we have a lot of gaps in legislation and we are trying to fix them. However, I would like to emphasise that these are proposals. And yesterday, we had a discussion of the Commission there is such a committee, the State Public Committee on Traffic Safety, and there I had literally invited all non-governmental organisations or at least the biggest ones we are discussing with. I hope that these five measures that we have taken, of course, with some adjustments and once they enter parliament, will enter the Road Traffic Act and then we will be stricter. But so far, there's not much we can do. I don't want to say which governments back what hasn't been done. I agree with you, it could. At the moment we are at least trying and at least I as Minister to make it as strict as possible. I'll give you an example. On April 13, 2018, when I was coming home from Burgas, there was a bus crash that was lying in the gutter, there were 6 victims, then I was moving in the emergency lane. I had a police car in front of me. On the side, in this emergency lane, the intruders were just foreign trucks. I'm emphasising what you're saying. Indeed, we are trying to be as strict as possible, but these gaps in legislation do not help us much with the Ministry of Interior, so we have proposed these five changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u30	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Valentin Radev is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on the measures to solve the problem of congestion at the border checkpoint Makaza. You have the floor, Mr. Yordanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The meaning of the Macaza border crossing is clear. It is the main access of the population from southern Bulgaria to northern Greece and not only the Bulgarians, but also the tourists from our northern neighbour Romania. Unfortunately, for several years now, we have witnessed a problem that has plagued those passing through the point. It is said that during the summer months, due to a limited threshold, there are lines, some columns, and waiting sometimes exceeds three hours and, unfortunately, no sanitary and hygienic conditions are provided for this waiting to take place. As this is repeated every year and it is a fact, my question to you today is: do you plan to take any measures to ease the passage through the Macaza point during the summer period of 2018?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov and Mr. Timchev, regarding the mobilisation of the work of the Mazza Ministry of Interior checkpoint, respectively the Border Police Directorate General, are making every effort to ensure normal crossing power in the conditions of enhanced and systematic border checks arising from the Schengen Borders Code. According to the provisions of this Code, enhanced border checks should be carried out including those benefiting from the right to free movement under European Union law. In this regard, a decision was taken in the Ministry of Interior to mitigate the increased border checks in accordance with the legal possibilities to derogate certain texts of the Schengen Borders Code. Bulgaria's decision for non-systematic control of the two border points was announced in the appropriate order to the other Member States of the European Union, and the European Commission, and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex. The possibilities for infrastructure changes, including the expansion of the point by building additional routes for motor vehicles, are severely limited due to the nature of the terrain on which the point is built. Based on the bilateral agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey of Makaza, this border crossing point, joint border controls are being carried out with the Greek border authorities and in this sense any modification of the infrastructure is linked to prior coordination with our neighbours. One of the measures you are asking about, aimed at reducing the time to wait for border checks at this point, is the flexible use of border checks routes, and the same can be determined for entry and exit of the country for a certain time period, depending on the load and traffic of motor vehicles. Secondly, annual meetings of border services from the Bulgarian and Greek countries are held to establish an organization for normal border checks at the point, besides flexible use of routes entrance and exit during the summer months is provided by employees. Thirdly, for all available and additional employees, for all available jobs on the first line for the border inspection and their number is reciprocald by the Bulgarian and Greek side. In addition, an employee of Macaza will be provided to regulate the flow of road vehicles in the border point area and to ensure the safety of employees and citizens. In fourth place, in addition, through its website the Directorate-General for Border Police is providing daily up-to-date information on the workload of the country's border checkpoints, indicating the opportunities for intensive timetables of some of them, as an alternative to using the other relevant posts, including the border with the Hellenic Republic, for example through the Tower instead of through Makaza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u34	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I thank you for the serious answer you have given, and there is only one thing left to wish for what you said to really happen, because if it happens in the order in which you list it, I think that in the summer season we will be relieved. I speak as Plovdiv people, when we reach Northern Greece. I would like to say that I was still impressed by your response to what you said about information about the tourist and the flow that passes before the border to control this and to take the appropriate measures adaptive in relation to the specific situation almost hour by hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, I am taking the duplicate to thank you for your confidence in the Ministry of Interior and to say again that the issue is not only the Ministry of Interior. I thank you for asking it to us, but imagine this is a point, there are roads, there are infrastructure. The roads are covered by MRRB and API, and the infrastructure is responsible for customs. We're just the middleman. Thanks for asking us, but we're doing what I said, and I'm glad you like it. I would like to stress that everyone should read the Ministry of Interior's website about opportunities. There we show thanks that you stress it too: when it is loaded, please go to the Tower. People should know that. I, too, am hung in the queues. I use that word and it's very unpleasant, but if you know the option where you can go faster, it makes it easier. People should be informed and this is on the Home Office's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u38	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, who will answer three questions today. The first question is from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova on the National Program. Please, Professor Klisarova, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My question is related to the published National Programme "Cqualification" and which surprised me is that the qualification course at CERN is missing for training of teachers in vocational training in the field of Education, Techniques and Informatics. You know this was posted on the Ministry of Education's website. There was a one-month discussion and during this discussion there were proposals for this to be included in this programme by addressing both Professor Zahariev and Mrs. Lilia Drumeva. Surprisingly, the programme published on 20 March found that these proposals were not reflected at all. This program has existed for four years and it has repeatedly proved its benefits. Therefore, because it is good to continue the unique opportunities that enables our membership in CERN, to go there teachers, to receive higher qualifications and to pass on the knowledge to their students. My question to you is: what are the reasons for the lack of the CERN qualification course for teachers and can it be reviewed and not only the school directors included? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u40	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. For an answer Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisarova, first of all, thank you for your question. I take that as a benevolent signal. More than 50 trainings have been included in the National Programme "Cqualification" for 2018, as well as previous years. This is one of the 11 national programmes approved by the Council of Ministers. The training you are talking about is actually included, but, as you just said, only with participants principals of schools, but not teachers. It's a technical flaw. At the Ministry we received reports of this omission and requests for change the program at CERN to continue. For this reason, we have decided to organize a training of the Technical and Informatics and training of the teachers in the educational subjects of the Ministry of Education and Information Technologies. The costs will be borne by the budget of the Ministry of Education. This information about the training is to be published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. In this sense, the gap is removed, although the training will take place outside the Programme. It does not matter in this case to those who will participate in it. Training has also existed in previous years. It is of proven utility and should be carried out this year as well. I will see if there are any proposals in the course of the public discussion that have been submitted to the Ministry and not to Mr. Zahariev, who I do not know who he is, and to Mrs. Drumeva, who should not be the contact person in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u42	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for this answer and for the result and the decision has been made. It is important that these teachers go to CERN and get their training. The way it's going to be, you've already said. Thank you for the ministry's commitment to ensuring that this is a reality. Let's check the proposals for real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u44	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. A hole? There won't be. Colleagues, let's congratulate our guests from Kardzhali, from the local parliament of elders, as we say to them, they are here on the balcony. Welcome to Parliament! [[Applause.]] We continue with the second question to Minister Valchev from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov on the management of the Sofia University of Velkov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The school we're talking about has traditions back in time. By the way, the education and establishment of the institution there dates back to the 19th century and then develops. With this, I want to show the importance of such a school in a small village, such as the municipality of Belovo. During the years, children from Kostenets, from September, from the municipality of Belovo have been trained there, but I have recently found that there are problems with the principal of the school specifically, with the management of the school, including abuses that have been done, and as far as I understand, established by checks that have been carried out. My question in this sense is: are you aware, have you taken any action in this direction? The parents of the children who study there are concerned and, as I said, should not easily destroy such an educational institution with traditions, rather you and I should work to strengthen schools in small towns and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. For a reply.. Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I am familiar with what is happening at the secondary school. There's a lot of violations at the school. We have received signals and complaints concerning irregularities in the activities of the school management. Several checks have been carried out over the years by the Regional Education Management " Pazardzhik," and by the Ministry of Education and Science. Due to established violations of labour discipline, three disciplinary penalties have been imposed on Director Ivana Daltova. Accordingly, in 2013 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee Following another inspection by the Regional Education Management in May this year, it was found that in the fourth quarter of 2017, a financial inspection was carried out by the State Financial Inspection Agency, which was completed on 28 November 2017. The results of the verification were made public on the website of the State Financial Inspection Agency. The information contained in the school's summary of the website identified damages related to unlawful expenditure from the school's budget. Four indicators of fraud within the meaning of the Additional Provisions of the State Financial Inspection Act, as well as violations of the Accounting Act, have also been established. The Director of the Municipal School, as a secondary authorising officer with a budget, shall be responsible for the lawful, appropriate, economical and transparent disposal of budgetary resources. In this regard, the results of the financial inspection had immediately become known to the Head of Regional Management and the disciplinary proceedings were carried out in relation to the school director under the Labour Code. By order of the Head of Regional Government is imposed disciplinary punishment dismissal of Director Ivana Daltova. The order was served on 9 May 2018, and its employment relationship was terminated on the basis of art. 330, para. 2, p. 6 of the Labor Code. The six-month delay is due to the use of a hospital by the principal of the school. Each particular question raises common questions. In this case, the general question is the responsibility of the directors. As you can see, in this case, this responsibility has been realised due to a violation. There are many cases where directors, even if they have not committed any violations, do not carry out their duties responsibly enough. You know that the new Pre-School and School Education Act no longer warrants the release of directors is not only to commit violations and to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and to impose disciplinary punishment on them dismissal is foreseen and an attestation, with a weak assessment of one director being able to terminate his relationship on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u48	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line? Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'll be very brief. Dear Minister, I believe that we importers of the question should be satisfied with the answer for which we thank you. With this remark, although the results of the financial inspection have been since the end of last year, even since the end of November, the necessary measures are only now being taken. Better late than never, and it is good that the actions are taken precisely on Europe's day and on Victory Day 9 May, which in a sense can be interpreted as a victory of parliamentary control. In this way, for the last time, it has proved that parliamentary control is full of meaning and it must continue in the same spirit. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You've had your thanks. A hole? You don't want a double, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov about the activities and competent management of the Center for Human Resources Development at the Ministry of Education and Science. Here you are, dear Mr. Tsonkov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u51	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This question is provoked again to the minister because of signals that have reached me. The Centre for Human Resources Development is managing both the Programme and the Programme of the European Union, and they are important throughout the context of the European Union to combat youth unemployment, youth policy. Of course, last but not least here, we should mention that........................... and.......................................................................... A fruitful, full-fledged contacts are created and students from different European countries are also given the opportunity to expand their worldview, knowledge. I therefore believe that the management of the Centre for Human Resources Development should be competent, with the necessary censure to manage all these processes and youth-related programmes. In this sense, my question is: are you familiar with the management of the Centre? Do you think it's effective? Are you suggesting that there are irregularities? How competent is this government, really? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Come in for an answer, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u53	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, before I go to the specific question only one deviation. I am glad that during the Bulgarian Presidency the mid-term assessment of the Programme was presented and the proposal of the European Commission for a Multiannual Financial Framework for the next programming period provides for a doubling of the funds for the Programme. Some of the findings contained in the mid-term evaluation, you said how useful this programme is, is how young people have touched another culture, learned another language, had the opportunity to be in another educational system and thus be more prepared tomorrow for the labour market. With regard to the specific question, I am prepared to give every single signal for inspection. Within the framework of the individual key activities of the Programme, the mobility, educational and youth exchange projects are implemented, as you said. The funded projects under the Programme with the participation of Bulgarian organizations and institutions for the period 2014 - 2017 total 80 million. Euros. The Center for Human Resources Development has reached almost 100% absorption of funds under the Programme, with Bulgaria's budget for the past two years - 2017 and 2018, increased by nearly 20% compared to the previous ones. There are more than 1300 project proposals for applying for the relevant activities at the Center for Human Resources Development. In 2017, a total of 1362, of which 497 or nearly 36% were approved for funding. As a result of this three-year period, nearly 49 thousand mobility was financed, 1429 grant contracts were concluded, contracts with over 77 thousand participants were financed. Nearly 5,000 organisations are involved in the funded projects. The participants reported over 96% satisfaction. The Center for Human Resources Development is accredited Agency under the Programme. The accreditation itself is a preliminary assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, including the availability of a good control environment at the Centre. The Centre must work under all the rules and procedures for administration of the Programme established by the European Commission and the Bulgarian legislation. The follow-up, verification and control of the Centre's activities are carried out from both national and European level. The Centre shall each year conclude a contract with the European Commission for the delegation of rights and obligations on the basis of this accreditation that I have told you. This Treaty regulates its functions, in accordance with the rules and procedures made by the European Commission. Each year he prepares and presents to the European Commission an annual report on his work and on the implementation of the work programme in the previous year. The latest assessment of the Annual Report does not contain any recommendation, which is an indicator of good management of the Programme. As an institution managing European funds, the Centre for Human Resources Development is the subject of regular audit by the Executive Agency This is the so-called audit authority that is outside the Ministry of Education. With a view to further verification of the compliance of the activities of the Centre with the established rules for the administration of the Programme.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If I could just have a few more words. The centre has a relatively good capacity. I'm saying relative to the other departments of the Ministry. Maybe it's the reason why the wages are higher. There are over 400 units to the Minister of Education and Science. I can't give you absolute confidence that at any moment, in every single unit everything is fine. The audit reports we read give us reasonable confidence if I use the audit term that the Programme is relatively well implemented and the Centre works relatively well, given that there are no significant violations found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u54	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Mr. Tsonkov, before I give you the floor, I would like to announce that we have students and their principals from the Primary School of Botev, the village of Belasitsa, the municipality of Petrich. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Tsonkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u55	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased, on the one hand, that we have a positive assessment of the annual audit of the Programme and that, according to European Union experts, the Programme is working relatively well. At the same time, however, I am surprised by this assessment, given some information that is mildly disturbing in relation to the functioning of the Centre and to say it the discipline in the Center itself, the climate that has been created. I will start by saying that the new leadership has undertaken a very wicked practice of appointments of people who are not sufficiently familiar with the Programme do not have the necessary censure. They also do not have the necessary competence and it is particularly scandalous that the last appointment related to a director who has previous sins and has been proven to be embezzled under the Human Resources Development Programme of the Centre, in particular in school visits. Part of the Lifelong Learning Programme. After I finish, I will also provide you with the signal so that you can get acquainted and do the necessary checks. It's even more scandal that 30 grand has been spent. Euros for an MMA Fighters event because there are some contacts between the management and this MMA Fighters organization. The question is how MMA struggles are included in the Programme "Erasmus plus"? What's the connection between the two? Worse still, 100 grand. lv. are spent to celebrate 30 years since the creation of the Erasmus Plus Programme. This also raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u56	The weather, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u57	I'm done, Madam President. Thirty-eight thousand are for an animated history of the program; 10 thousand for catering; 8 thousand for video shooting; 8 thousand for LED screen. These are unreasonable amounts that are paid, and with 100,000 students, children can be sent to exchange, as we talked, which is important for all Bulgarian students, students. So I'm asking you to do a full background check. Such inadequacies to call them, costs cannot be justified and allowed by the management of this important unit by the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Here you are, for the coat, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u59	Thank you. As I said, once again: we will check all specific signals. Actually, there were three of them. One is for one specific assignment, I'll see which director it is. The second is in terms of providing funds for a joint event with the Federation. As we checked signals, this signal was received by the Ministry of Education at the beginning of 2017, a check was given and carried out at the time of the caretaker government, a joint check of the Ministry's Inspectorate and the Internal Audit Unit, which does not only cover this signal, but the overall check of the media of the Centre. In particular, in relation to this, the verification was completed without serious comments. What I'm not familiar with as a signal is about the 100,000 you mentioned. We'll check the event's organization. I'll check the organization and conduct the event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u60	Allow me to thank Mr. Krasimir Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. He will answer first a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev concerning reimbursement by the National Health Insurance Fund of Medical Products and Supplies. Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, according to EUROSTATE Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union and at the same time Bulgarian patients pay about 40% of the costs of health. The state budget for 2018 for health is about 5 billion, and all other funds up to about 9 billion are paid by patients in different forms. Despite these findings in recent years, the state has not taken any real steps to lighten the medical devices business and ultimately reduce the additional payments by patients. Otherwise, we all know that there are extremely meaningful proposals for a centralised electronic auction, an assessment of health technologies and products paid by public funds, a public price register and others. Unfortunately, they only stand on paper. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the strategy of the Ministry of Health for the full reimbursement by the National Health Insurance Fund of medical devices and consumables guaranteeing the health and quality of life of Bulgarian patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u62	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. You are welcome for an answer, Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Prof. Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The health insurance payments approved by the National Health Insurance Fund budget Act for 2018 for medical devices implemented in hospital medical care amounted to 98 million. lv. The NHIF Supervisory Board has established a list of values to which the NHIF will pay for medical devices from 1 April 2018. When determining the list, the lowest values paid by funds in EU countries or the lowest price for reported invoices from 2017 have been taken into account from tenders held in individual hospitals in the country. The NHIF Supervisory Board adopts the list of medical devices, but it does not have a regulation as for medicinal products, i.e. to be bound by provision and concessions. The granting of concessions from the initially proposed prices has not been legally established as a mandatory requirement. The procedures for determining the value of medical devices paid by the budget of the NHIF are laid down in the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for drawing up a list of medical devices under art. 30a of the Law on Medical Devices and determining the value to which they are paid. The price proposed may not be higher than the selling price for the product concerned listed under art. 1, t. 1 letter (s) of the Ordinance. The proposed price shall be declared by the applicant. A total of 3693 medical devices were requested from 208 applicants. Of these, 590 are included in the list of medical devices used in outpatient medical care and 3103 are included in the list of medical devices applied in hospital medical care. The National Health Insurance Fund shall, in accordance with the approved funds of the Cassate budget for 2018, determine the groups of medical devices and the requirements for their prescription and allocation and the value to which they are paid. The procedure shall also be carried out under the order of the relevant regulation. With the procedure carried out in 2018, the National Health Insurance Fund has ensured that patients have access to more medical devices at lower prices than the previous year. For 2018, 828 new medical devices in hospital care were agreed. In order to comply with the financial parameters of the budget of the NHIF and in order to rationally and effectively spend the funds for the payment of medical devices from the NHIF, additional analyses and references were made, namely: information from the European countries on the values of medical devices; analysis of the practices in the health insurance funds of France, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Spain, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Croatia, Estonia, Romania and Germany regarding medical devices; review of the information in the five largest members of health insurance funds in Germany and the German Institute for Diagnosticly Related Groups; analysis of the value of medical devices paid by the NHIF, according to the value of the invoice of hospital aid institutions, and found invoicing values in one group, a subset with a difference in a wide range of 50 to 900 BGN. After the publication of the list, each medical institution shall conduct a procedure for the public procurement according to the specific need. The actual cost of the device for each group of medical devices placed in hospital medical care is different and varies for each group and subgroup. Each health insured person shall have the right to receive medical devices from the list and to request information from the medical establishment concerning their use and application, as well as the possible alternative from the same group, a sub-group of items at a lower price. Each patient should contact the control authorities if additional payment for a medical device is requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u64	You can add the answer in the back, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u65	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u66	Thank you. Professor Klisarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, what I have heard so far are the real facts of what is being done. But I mean, yes, 828 medical devices more, but that doesn't relieve patients because the resources for them are reduced. At the same time, we should say: yes, range from 51 to 900 BGN. I absolutely agree with this finding, but these findings do not help Bulgarian patients not to pay for medical devices. If they do not pay, then the hospital must pay if it has not achieved this lowest price compared to Luxembourg, Germany and all the other countries in the European Union to which our prices are compared. Therefore, my request to you is: let us take the first steps towards accepting electronic auctions, to lightening the medical devices business in order to have control over the prices, equal treatment of all patients and all hospitals to receive these products at approximately the same prices, not unlike 800 BGN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u68	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u69	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Professor Klisarova, you are absolutely right and we are doing our best to improve and raise the spending of medical devices to a more effective level and to better satisfy the people who need them. The electronic auction is one of the measures and medical devices will be placed along with electronic trading medicines. At the same time, I would like to tell you that we already have information from five or six major national hospitals across the country, who are ready to take on the Bulgarian patients for their necessary medical devices at these prices that we have provided, so there is a reversal of this process. You can see that after the first few days on which this topic was discussed, somehow the topic was exhausted because people see that we are really creating an organization they get their medical devices at the prices that the Cassata has provided. If there is another case in which to ask for a higher price or what is called additional payment, I said in my statement that we would immediately react with our control bodies. What you have said about the future vision, and with that I will finish my speech, is that we are considering changing the regulation on setting prices for medical devices and another approach in their negotiation, which will be part of the strategic intentions of the Ministry of Health within the framework of the new health insurance model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva concerning the lack of doctors with certain specialties and disorders rhythm of work of the medical expert committees. Here you are, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, for weeks and months spend many patients waiting until the TELK review. Of the many problems related to medical expertise, today it seems that the most serious issue is the composition of so-called specialized expert committees, or the cases where expertise on the type and extent of disability and reduced workability of persons with eye, pulmonary and mental diseases is carried out by TelK with the participation of a doctor with a recognised specialty in eye diseases, pulmonary and psychiatry. Despite recent changes to the Health Act, in which it is allowed in the Chambers of TelK and NELK to participate doctors who carry out medical and diagnostic activities, we are witnessing information about the inability of committees to hold a meeting due to the absence of a doctor with a particular specialty. The reasons for this are different, and perhaps one of them is the low remuneration. Regardless of the specific reason, any non-formation of the Commission or delay means a violation of someone's right means endangering human life. Sometimes, for months, seriously ill people are left with no means at all. Accordingly, my question to you is: what will the Ministry of Health take to ensure the timely formation of the compositions of expert medical committees and to ensure a normal regime of their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u73	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Jeleva! The measures aimed at overcoming a number of practical problems with the activity of territorial expert medical committees have already been taken by the Ministry of Health, with the first step being the amendment and the supplement to the Health Act promulgated in February 2018. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 of the Law was abolished the restriction of members of TELK and NELK, according to which they could not carry out activities which were subject to their control and carry out consultancy activities related to the type and extent of damage, temporary disability and permanently reduced disability. This change will help to overcome the personnel deficit in the medical expertise bodies, create equal working conditions for doctors working in the medical expertise bodies against their colleagues from hospital and outpatient care. In line with the quoted amendment to the Health Act, the draft amendment and supplement to the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the work of the bodies of medical expertise and of the regional files of medical expertise. The draft legislative act was published on the website of the Ministry of Health and on the public consultation portal of the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018 for a period of 30 days. Changes in the Rules, which will further facilitate the organisation of work at TelK, are the removal of the requirement that doctors are full-time and mandatory to be on a contract of employment while allowing for the appointment of doctors. This will facilitate the management of medical institutions to ensure a larger composition of experts in TELM which will be interchangeable and, at the same time, create greater flexibility in the work of the Commission. Another change that optimizes the activities of TELK and at the same time affects their load is the regulation of the possibility for expert committees to rule primarily on the basis of the provided medical documentation when it fully focuses on the degree of damage and functional deficiency of the diseased body and/or system and only if necessary a clinical examination will be carried out and additional research and consultation with specialists will be appointed. All these regulatory changes will allow for the easier formation of territorial expert medical committees, easing their load, optimizing and updating their activities. This will undoubtedly also help to overcome the existing problems that make the work at TELK unattractive to doctors. This issue that you have put for the payment is at the heart of the work of the Ministry of Health on the 2019 Draft Budget, and we will focus on this issue because we appreciate the dignity of the work of the people who work at TelK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Zheleva, come in, you have a chance to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u75	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, and in asking the question I answered you and told you that I am aware of the changes in the Health Act. However, throughout the district of Haskovo, 884 people with pulmonary diseases are waiting to pass at Telk. For the entire district of Haskovo, there is not one willing doctor to work in the relevant TelK. I'm talking 884 people. So perhaps these changes will take time to produce some results. In this case, we need a quick solution, because these people, when they do not receive a solution and when they have three months, cannot receive a pension, have no health insurance, deprive themselves of the elementary right to receive a right to health care and, above all, they do not have any funds. Therefore, I ask you to take some other measures that can lead to a quick resolution of the problem. For example, to change the territorial distribution of TELK, because in this TELK that I told you about, there is no pneumaticologist in the whole territory and there is no way to operate the TELK. Perhaps it should be directed to another committee where there is also such a compartment on the territory of the municipality or where this decision is not the fault of the patient, it should be timeless. I'm asking you to think about these changes. For the remuneration I support you here and you really need respect for these doctors, because otherwise you see that despite the changes there is no one to work in these committees, and the number of people who are using such a solution is increasing significantly. For several months now, I say again, this TELK has no one to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and have a look at the back and add to the line and the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u77	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Jeleva! I don't take it as a line. I accept that we consider the proposals that you have made. Maybe we should help Haskovo with some mobile teams regarding TelK. I'm going to specialize in the Haskovo case, and whatever is possible, we're going to do to ease these people. The things that I have mentioned to you, with the amendment to the Ordinance and with the construction of an information system where the patient will hardly move, will move only documents, will relieve both the patient himself and the employees of TelK, will optimize their work, there will also be a reduction in the technical volume of work. In this way, it may also reduce the problem of the number of people who have to participate in TELK. I'm committed to analyzing your proposals, and I'm going to get to know the case in Haskovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next we will ask the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov about the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The adoption of the National Health Card has raised many questions in the health care guild. It's basically a joke, but hardly anyone's happy with it. The question we want to discuss with you today is about those plus 6,000 beds that appeared in more than one of the projects in Bulgaria? What exactly is the reflection of these more beds in the different regions? The problem of medical professionals who are concerned about the future of their hospitals is justified, provided that, by some criteria, these beds will not be able to function fully, first; and second of all, they will not be reflected in the conclusion of a contract with the Health Insurance Fund with regard to the capacity of the healthcare establishments concerned. Our question to you specifically is: what happens to the fact that according to your calculations we have 6,000 more beds for active treatment? How will they be distributed in regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u80	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister. You've got five more minutes than a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u81	Dear Chairman, dear Associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Timchev, Mr. Gokov, as far as I know, Professor Mihailov is gone, but also Dear Professor Mihailov! Before answering the question, I would like to tell you, Professor Yordanov, that after the adoption of the National Health Card by the Council of Ministers literally the debate was no more than half a day when we met with both the Medical Union and all participants in this process. I want to tell you that the tensions dropped, people weren't familiar with the National Health Card...... what its role is, what its essence is, what its content is. As you can see, for several days in all media are prominent Bulgarian scientists, doctors who stand behind the Health Card as necessary in order to be able to conduct health policy in our country. As I said just now, the project "National Health Card" was adopted by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 361 of 29 May 2018. The National Health Card was drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 29 of the Law on Hospitals, according to which it defines and plans on a territorial principle the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care and the national health policy is implemented. The national health card shall contain: 1. Twenty-eight district health cards. 2. The specific needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals from the professional field of health care to provide access to medical care for the population in outpatient medical care for all areas. 3. The specific needs of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by species and levels of competence of the relevant structures for the relevant areas. 4. Existing hospital care facilities, medical establishments under art. 10 and hospitals carrying out high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods on the country's map. 5. Analysis of the state in the districts, including on the necessary dentists and dentists in specialties and professionals from the field of professional health care. 6. The types of medical activities to be planned at regional level according to the separate regions under art. 4, para. 3 of the Regional Development Act. 7. Map of the necessary high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods and their associated high-tech medical equipment. 8. An emergency medical card containing the number and location of emergency medical centres. The National Health Card identifies the needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and specialists from the professional field of health care in outpatient medical care. The approach applied in primary outpatient assistance is aimed at universal insurance of the population with basic medical services provided by general practitioners and dentists at optimal numbers of the population served by one doctor. The expected results of validation of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria are related to providing conditions for affordable and quality health services in accordance with the needs of the population of outpatient and hospital medical care in the effective use of public financial resources. It enables adequate resource planning based on analysis and creates conditions for carrying out a state policy to ensure equal access and timely medical assistance. In the draft of the National Health Card published for discussion a month ago, then we had provided 32 873 conditional beds, estimated at 75% usability, i.e. the beds on which hospitalizations can be realized according to the needs of the population. This number of beds provides the conduct of 2 409 326 hospitalizations held in 2017 and paid by the NHIF. In response to the proposals received in the course of the public discussion, the new version of the National Health Card includes an estimate of 33,481 beds or 608 beds more. In the course of the public discussion, a number of districts insist on returning the beds according to the court-sponsored National Health Card 2016. On a comparable 70% useability basis, the new Health Card has 13 beds more than the health card cancelled in 2016. Assuming that in 2018, the average number of beds remained at the level of 2017, then provided in the National Health Card beds 33 481 at 75% useability provide 2 450 110 hospitalizations or 41,000 hospitalizations more than in 2017. This is a higher number of patients than they passed in 2017. The use of beds in 2017 is 64% or the actual beds used are 24 723, i.e. one third of these beds has not been used.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u82	Time, you'll have a chance to move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u83	Okay, thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u84	Next are the supplementary questions of Prof. Yordanov. Please come in for these questions. You can ask two supplementary questions by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ananiev! Those things that you said today from the National Assembly's stand should have been said earlier in the process of accepting the National Health Card. Unfortunately, the National Assembly as an institution is excluded from the methodology for adopting the National Health Card after the adoption of the Law on Medical Institutions. You rightly pointed out that there are a number of problems that still do not find a solution in your answer. One of them is about what district health committees are offering, and what is ultimately included in the National Health Card. There are also many other questions, for example, who defined the proportion of useability of beds not 70 but 75%; who determined that the ratio between a doctor and a health care professional should be one to one and not one to four, as in developed European countries, and many others. However, we think that the issue of the National Health Card is very important because it is the main pillar of the health system of the Republic of Bulgaria and it cannot be passed lightly. That is why we are currently entering a request for a debate and believe that there should be a debate in the House of the National Assembly. After entering our request...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u86	You can do that after you hear the answers to the supplementary questions. There is another procedure after the entire questioning procedure is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u87	...for a debate. Yeah, he's clear on this legal basis. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u88	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u89	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Associate Professor Yordanov! Indeed, the National Health Card is a strategically extremely important regulatory document that is needed to conduct health policy in our country. I would like to tell you that it is not as important for 2018 for the operation, financing of the system as it is from the perspective of future investments in equipment, as well as in the construction of new health units, hospitals and so on. I will continue with some more information on what the Health Card provides.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u90	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u91	Yeah. It should be noted that at 100% useability of beds there is an additional reserve and the possibility of holding nearly 817 thousand. the number of hospitalizations. In practice, using this reserve can be hospitalized at least once, associate Professor Yordanov, 46% of the 7 million population of the Republic of Bulgaria. Without the use of reserve, possible hospitalizations are 35% of the population. Any third Bulgarian citizens can be hospitalized. In both cases the estimates in the National Health Card 2018 guarantee the required number of beds and hospital capacity. If out of the planned 33,481 beds we separate a 10% emergency reserve, then the additional number of hospitalizations for which there are beds and hospital capacity are 490 thousand. the number or increase of hospitalizations reaches and exceeds 120%. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the main purpose of the National Health Card is to adapt the structure of the health network to the needs of the population. It is also a tool for planning medical activities, respectively of financial resources for them based on the real needs of the population, which is why it creates conditions for sustainable and long-term balancing of the cost responsibilities of the NHIF. That is why I am confident that I can count on your support for the policy carried out by the Ministry of Health. I have already told the media: The health card does not close beds or open beds. On the basis of the Health Card, medical institutions are not financed. Medical establishments shall be financed on the basis of their medical activities. What I want to finish with is that there are really some things that need to be improved with regard to the structure, the content, the purpose of the National Health Card. However, we are currently working on the basis of a law adopted by you by the National Assembly. In the new health insurance model we will also include changes regarding the issues related to the National Health Card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Professor Yordanov. Now you can express your attitude to Minister Ananiev's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! You have rightly said and read the importance of the National Health Card for the future period of the health system in the Republic of Bulgaria, but there is something that I deeply disagree with. You said it was an instrument that would determine future investments in health care, in particular perhaps in hospitals. I think we all want to have more and more investments in our country. That is what we pray for, including in health care. God forbid there are people who want to invest their funds, money, powers in improving accessibility and quality, mainly of the health system, because we currently legally have free access to the patient's health care system, the health care system unit, in this case the hospital. Those who are behind the current health care system are dropping out because patients are not looking for them. I am increasingly convinced that we need a debate, and a debate at the highest level. That is why I am entering a request for a debate in the Chamber at the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u94	Thank you. In connection with the previous inquiry by letter No 854-00-38 of 1 June 2018, submitted today at 10,39 minutes, there was a request for discussion on questioning, No 854-05-33 of 9 May 2018, and a draft decision on the questioning asked by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 74 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. More than one-fifth of the MPs to make a proposal for a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debate on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We continue with a declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Siddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with another unacceptable intervention of the Turkish Consul in the case of the change of the names of more than 800 localities in the municipality of Stara Zagora, we MPs from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" are asking for firm intervention by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria, which will take all the permitted diplomatic measures in accordance with the Vienna Convention in order to prevent Turkey's wicked practice of interfering with the Bulgarian internal policy. The change of Turkish names of the localities in Stara Zagora with their very Bulgarian is a great victory of the Bulgarians and the patriots in the country. Similar examples should be found in other municipalities. The silence and acceptance of Turkish-Arabic names left over from the dark years of five centuries of Turkish slavery are neither a symbol of tolerance nor of the preservation of family memory. On the contrary, when we remain silent and accept forced names, we actually accept the replacement of our own story for future generations. The change of the names and faith of the Bulgarians in the Rhodopes was not done voluntarily, but violently and bloodyly by the Turkish enslaver. Similarly, in their registers, settlements and geographical tononyms have been replaced by Turkish-Arabic. The Bulgarian state has not intervened once in the replacement of the Bulgarian toponyms in modern Turkey. Lozengrad, for example, is called Kirklarelli, and Edirne, Edirne, and this did not cause interference from our country. This is not the first time the Turkish state has interfered with the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. We have repeatedly alerted Gokce's intervention. It is still a fresh example of hiding former DPS leader Lutvi Mestan precisely at the Turkish Embassy at the time he was ambassador to our country. We still remember the examples of election campaigning from him again. And the Turkish consuls in Plovdiv Yavuzcan and Jabedji took the liberty of openly threatening the municipal councils in Plovdiv, Karlovo and Asenovgrad on the recognition of Armenian genocide. They all left Bulgaria quietly, without a reaction from our country and are now taking higher positions in theirs. The change of the names of the localities is an inherent legal right of the Bulgarian municipalities and no one has the right to interfere in their sovereign decisions. We would also like to stress that this is not a new revival process, as well as the five-century genocide of the Bulgarians was not a comrade co-existence! Bulgaria above all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u96	We are continuing our work with the questions to the Minister of Health. The following is a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning the obligation to electronically fill the prescription forms to which medicinal products paid in whole or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund are prescribed. Here you go, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, my question is that since the beginning of April 2018, perhaps after the fact of the National Framework Treaty, the prescription forms prescribed for medicinal products paid in whole or in part by the Health Insurance Fund should be filled in electronically. Otherwise, the forms will not be executed, but will return for delivery to the doctor. The Health Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union defend this measure as a first step towards the long-awaited introduction of electronic recipes. I have to tell you that I'm a hard worker. There is no dispute that eHealth is without alternative, that the digitalization of processes in outpatient assistance is absolutely necessary, even as optimization. At the same time, however, there are a number of problems that have become known to the public, especially through the media. For example, a problem with these electronic recipes will have practices in the villages with a personal doctor in several villages. The question arises: will every office in every village have to be equipped with a computer, printer and relevant software? According to the media, there is a problem on the part of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, which claims that the new rule contradicts the Regulation on the terms and conditions of prescription and distribution of medicinal products, according to which electronic filling is an option, not an obligation. For them this means that recipes filled by hand must be implemented, which raises the question of possible sanctions to them because they have fulfilled such recipes. On the other hand, not least, it is debatable how this new requirement helps if it at all helps doctors in their work, especially general practitioners. In relation to the above, my question to you is: do you provide for the relief or introduction of a grace period for this requirement? Since I have a few more minutes, art. 43, para. 5 of the National Framework Treaty, which you, of course, know, says the recipe forms are electronically filled in in the relevant format. A prescription form which does not comply with this requirement shall not be fulfilled and shall be returned to the carrier for transmission to the physician who issued it. In the regulation that I quoted you earlier, in art. 24, para. 5 prescription forms, samples of documents under para. 1 may not necessarily be printed, the same containing all the props. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Ananiev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, before I begin with the answer to your question, I would like to tell you that the new management of the Ministry of Health has set itself the goal for our healthcare to be electronic by the middle of next year. Until then, we believe that we will conclude with the common national health information system at the heart of which e-health is. From this point of view, we intend to look and move only forward. With these exceptions, with these delays, we are only delaying the process, and we all want to have electronic health care, not just electronic recipes, as you said. In accordance with art. 36, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 37, para. 1 of the National Framework Treaty for Medical Activities 2018 The National Health Insurance Fund provides for the benefit of health-insured persons medicinal products for home treatment in the territory of the country. Medicinal products are prescribed after a review, a doctor's consultation, which is documented in the outpatient list and certified by the patient's signature. In accordance with art. 43, para. 2 of the National Framework Treaty for 2018 the prescription forms prescribed for medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes for home treatment paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund shall be filled in electronically in the relevant format of the model, after which they are printed, signed and stamped by the doctor who prescribed the medicinal product. The prescription form, which does not comply with that requirement, as you have shared, should not be implemented and returned to the carrier for transmission to the doctor who issued it. With the introduction of the mandatory electronic filling of the prescription form, it is intended to prevent cases where, due to the illegible release of data and product names, errors in the granting or printing of the prescription form and subsequently penalties by the National Health Insurance Fund are made by holders of retail marketing authorisations. In this way, the activities of all entities involved in the process of copying, receiving and paying medicinal products will be facilitated and optimized by dentists, master pharmacists, patients, the National Health Insurance Fund, the regional health insurance funds and their control bodies, respectively. The requirement to complete the prescription forms in electronic form is the first step towards the upcoming process of introducing the electronic recipe. The national framework contract for medical activities for 2018 was agreed between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Association. This is a consensus agreement that defines the rights and obligations of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian Medical Association, the regional health insurance banks and the performers of outpatient medical care in the health care system. The proposal for inclusion of texts of the provisions cited above was made by the Bulgarian Medical Union with a commitment of its part to be implemented by all medical aid contractors, contractual partners of the regional health insurance funds, respectively of the National Health Insurance Fund. On a proposal from the National Health Insurance Fund in the forthcoming amendment and supplement of Ordinance No 4 of 2009 on the terms and conditions for prescription and distribution of medicinal products, which the Ministry of Health prepares, the inclusion of texts similar to the above-mentioned provision of the National Framework Treaty 2018 is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u100	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u101	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I welcome what the Ministry of Health has set for itself. This is indeed the future, and we must inevitably get to it. The sooner we get to him, the less problems we'll have in healthcare or we'll keep them to a minimum. I welcome what you said about e-health, which is part of which is electronic recipes. However, I am concerned about people who will not be able to benefit from this eHealth. In the receptions I make in the Stara Zagora region and in the villages, for an area such as Stara Zagora, which I consider one of the leading ones, including in the field of health, there are whole villages that are wholly or partly deprived of primary outpatient medical care, expressing that there is no GPS or general practitioners. If they have a general practitioner, they are available only one or two days a week, and should normally be available to their patients 24 hours a week at seven days a week. I understand your motives! The Doctor's Union is on your side, so this is going to happen. Let's think about this little bit of people who won't be able to get electronic recipes and I don't know how they'll deal with it! Perhaps with much effort general practitioners will find the way today they will see what medicines there are, then they will go to print them somewhere and the next visit to the village will deliver these recipes. But is that the job to make it difficult for them? Mr. Minister, the other thing I would like to say is: in order to have a certain order, change this regulation, because it is an act of the Council of Ministers, in its part of compulsoryness, so that pharmacists know what to do by refusing and at least refusing to be legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u103	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, we will go this way. We've got him, and we're gonna go after him. As I said at the very beginning this happened on a proposal from the Bulgarian Medical Union. What I can do and promise to you is that I will ask the management of the Bulgarian Medical Union to monitor these processes not only in the large but also in small towns, and if there are really such problems in certain settlements, to be informed so that we can take appropriate measures. We can't leave the population without getting the medication he needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Mihailov concerning the preparation of a National Health Card for the territory of Shumen district. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u105	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Obviously, the topic of the National Health Card will keep us occupied for a long time, a request has already been submitted for debate on this topic. In this case, my question is focused on Shumen District. Just to remind, here is Dr. Jeffer, with whom we were together at a meeting of the Regional Health Council, where this topic was discussed, and in the discussions with the representatives of the medical circles and the municipalities was found a shortage in the total number of beds and number of beds by levels of competence for certain specialties, the conclusion of which is that it will lead to a shift of flow of patients to hospitals from other areas, waiting lists or disorganization of the activities of the wards, financial and personnel problems in the medical establishments. I have listened carefully to your previous answer, in which you said that the National Health Card will not affect payments, hospitals and so on, which surprises me to a large extent and in the answer I expect from you, perhaps we will learn details. In this regard, I also ask you to answer the following question: what are the criteria for the draft National Health Card in the territory of Shumen district? What methodology determines the level of competence of the different wards in the medical establishments and the number of beds in them respectively? Will the number of beds in the National Health Card project affect payments from NHIF to medical institutions, which is the most important issue? We all ask ourselves that, and it is very important that doctors from now on what information they will receive from you. You know at least that the county hospital is already on the brink of bankruptcy. Although you have changed the management, I am not very optimistic that if this health card affects in any way the work of this hospital, it will not fall into actual bankruptcy by the end of the year and in practice put the new management of the hospital before a fact has been done to take over a bankrupt establishment that will doom patients as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! Based on the data from the regional health cards, the data from the regional health inspections and the National Health Insurance Fund for the usability of hospital beds by types of medical activities and clinical pathways, as well as the data on the conversion of the population to medical services in the outpatient care paid by the NHIF, the National Commission prepared a National Health Card. In planning the needs of extra-hospital medical care are applied parameters for average insurance for the country by a general practitioner to 1500 people and one dentist per 1,000 people. The needs of doctors in specialized outpatient medical care are consistent with the data on the number of examinations paid by the National Health Insurance Fund for the period 2015 - 2017, as well as with indicators for the insurance of the population with the relevant specialists of 100 000 people. In the National Health Card are also planned the needs of the population of healthcare professionals in outpatient care, defined on the basis of a uniform national indicator of population assurance for each area: 180 per 100 thousand people and a ratio of one to one medical nurses in relation to the planned number of dentists and dentists. The applied planning approach achieves full satisfaction of the needs of dentists, dentists and healthcare professionals in outpatient medical care. An analysis of the state of hospital care has been carried out and specific resources for carrying out medical activities at levels of competence have been defined. And now let's move on to Shumen. These are the general things on the basis of which outpatient medical care for Shumen has provided people with 100% treatment. There's no problem. According to data from the Regional Health Card for Shumen District, currently the total number of existing hospital beds for active treatment in the district is 569 with a usable 82%, representing 467 actual beds at 100% usable. The National Health Card defines the needs of 446 hospital beds for active treatment at a usable rate of 75%. With this approach, a shortage of 77 beds for active treatment is defined, which is intended to be provided additionally with the National Health Card, that is, this deficit we will overcome. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the National Health Card determines the specific needs of a total number of beds for hospital treatment and medical activities by levels of competence for the area concerned and not the specific number of beds by the structures of medical institutions. For example, according to the Regional Health Card at Shumen Hospital there is a Department of Nervous Diseases with a third level of competence with 35 beds. It should be borne in mind that activities are also carried out in a third-level compartment of competence from lower levels of competence, second and first. At the University Hospital Veliki Preslav 19 more beds were discovered in the Department of Nervous Diseases with a first level of competence. A total of 54 beds were discovered in the district for medical activities in nervous diseases. For the region of Shumen 61 beds with 7 beds more than available, for medical activities in nerve diseases, 42 of which are for activities with first level of competence, 18 for activities of second competence, and 1 for activities of third level of competence. For these reasons, the beds laid down in the National Health Card should not negatively affect payments from the NHIF. Moreover, there is a shortage of 77 active treatment beds for Shumen district, which are planned to be further revealed with the National Health Card for Shumen district. And to repeat: based on beds, we do not finance medical facilities. We finance on the basis of medical activity. What worried most of the district committees, they thought the important thing in financing hospitals was the level of competence of beds. It is not important that the level of competence of the medical activity is carried out. I think this calmed most of the medical community, including the management of the Bulgarian Medical Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, unfortunately, what you have said is largely getting away with the views of doctors in the field. Because both what you said and what was expressed at this meeting by representatives of the Health Insurance Fund and the regional management of Shumen did not show any concern for the medical institutions. Mr. Minister, the Health Card should reflect the needs of the population of health care in specialties, not by the usability of a structure in the past period. This is an extremely wrong approach with this usability. You know that with the available health-demographic resources of the district, for example the Shumen region, and an increase in infectious diseases, the I have received information about what this change in the number of beds will lead to. The indicator is not consistent with the seasonality of certain diseases, as well as with the absence of a contract for certain clinical pathways. Your reasoning is that the reduction of beds does not affect the activity, but you yourself know that the number of beds means the number of patients and types of activities that will be performed, respectively paid by the Health Insurance Fund. I don't think I'm wrong about that. You know that the patient has the right to available and qualified medical care. The reduction in the number of beds by level of competence makes the efforts made to achieve the appropriate accreditation assessment of the hospital concerned meaningless. Just one example: it is at stake in the Oncodispancer or the Complex Oncological Centre to close the PET scanner. You know how much money is given, and this health card is meant to be gone. If it disappears, what do we do from now on? This money that has been invested, how will it return, Mr. Minister? My question is also an appeal to you: to review this option and find a way to stay working, the beds that have been so far, ways of payment not to be changed and not to be reduced. For example, for a surgical ward, what have people given, what will reduce the number of beds and levels of competence? The problems will be: conflict with patients, tensions in the work of the staff, limitation of revenue activities, difficult keeping of staff, accommodation of patients on extra beds, probably reporting overactivity and so on. The ways in which the number of beds and activities to be carried out are defined for Shumen district, levels of competence do not meet the need and what patients need. What I am telling you is a kind of appeal by doctors to the Ministry of Health to approach the situation adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please complete your answer and answer the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again: there is a lack of recognition of the National Health Card, which was approved by the Council of Ministers. You mentioned again the reduction of beds. We don't reduce beds. You mentioned some kind of closure of a PET scanner. Where did you see the National Health Card shutting down the PET scanner at Shumen County Hospital?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u112	Not at the hospital, at the Complex Oncology Center. There it is recorded: one in Northeastern Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u113	All right, Complex. Please! You are opposed to not using the analytical information for the period 2015 - 2017. That is exactly what we need to catch the trend in morbidity in order to be able to actually predict the need for medical care next year, in 2018. Yes, the map also helps us with future investments, but you know that a future investment, in order to be possible, cannot be made in a month, two or three and begin to function immediately. This will be related to the new National Framework Treaty, which will be for 2019. But now the investor will know when he wants to make a hospital, such as Cardiovascular or some other, and wants to be in Sofia, will come, will see and will be told: in Sofia we have too much offering of this activity if you want to find such a hospital, but in the Rhodopes or in Northwestern Bulgaria. That is, investments will now actually be directed to the districts and regions, where there is no good satisfaction of Bulgarian patients, and not just to make an investment and make some money. I don't mind, if I have to, I will meet with Shumen's regional committee, we will introduce them specifically to our approach to the formation of the National Health Card to understand that we have helped and improved what happened last year, and we have not made it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is from the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Koychev Ivanov on the financial situation of the company "Bul Bio" "NCPB" Ltd for the last two years. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister Ananiev, my question is raised specifically for the financial situation of the company..Bul Bio.................................................................................................. the company............................................................................................................................................... However, the company, as 100% State owned, is extremely important to have good control over its financial situation, as well as the evaluation of the files, because they are the main asset of the company itself. Last but not least, my question is also the state of trade contracts specifically for the realization of production and how the Ministry guarantees that there will be no contracts for exclusiveity, because, as we know, this is contrary to anti-monopoly European and global legislation. Unfortunately, the company has experience, inherited from many years ago, with a company with which it has concluded such a contract. It's nice if you can develop the status of the contract right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! "Bul Bio" "NCPB" "National Center of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases," Mr President, is the abbreviation in the name of the company " is a company with 100% state participation in capital, with the rights of the state being exercised by the Minister of Health. "Bul Bio" produces about 500 bio-products and has a production permit that meets the requirements for good manufacturing practice in accordance with the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, 24 types of vaccines and blood products, a total of 30 medicinal products, 11 groups or 160 types of allergens and 281 types of diagnostic preparations. The same is approved as a manufacturer under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine by the Drug Executive Agency and is the holder of production permits and authorisations for the use of manufactured medicines and medical devices. In 2017, the company reported a revenue reduction compared to 2016 by 2 million. 57,000. lv. In total, the revenue in 2016 amounted to 31 million. 252,000. lv. The revenue structure remained relatively constant in 2017, with the company's total revenue of 29 million in 2017. 195,000. lv. It was formed mainly by revenue from the sale of production.. 25 million. Eight hundred and fifty-five thousand. BGN, from services provided BGN, as well as other revenues 605 thousand. lv. In the revenue structure there is a reduction in revenues from services by 84,32% and from sales of production by 9.5%. Regardless of the revenue reduction trend, an increase in the company's costs was observed in 2017 compared to 2016 by 70 thousand. lv. In 2016, the company's costs amounted to 22 million. 382 thousand. BGN and in 2017 reach 22 million. 452,000. lv. In 2016, and in 2017, the cost structure was also relatively constant, with the largest relative share in 2017 of staff costs of 9 million. 689 thousand. BGN, and the cost of raw materials, materials and consumables of 5 million Three hundred and thirty-one The revenue efficiency ratio shall show the value of the expenditure incurred per unit of income. For 2016 the revenue efficiency ratio was 0.72 and for 2017 the same indicator was 0.77. There is a negative trend towards an increase in costs of the Company per unit of income. In 2016, the company made an ongoing financial profit of 8 million respectively. Eight hundred and seventy thousand. BGN and in 2017 6 million. Seven hundred and forty-three There is a trend towards deterioration of the current financial result and in just one year the positive financial result is deteriorating by more than 2 million. lv. In relation to the emerging financial situation of the company, the Ministry of Health has entrusted the company with the compliance of the financial standard introduced for commercial companies with more than 50% state participation. Specific measures have been taken to audit and verify all current contracts of the Company in order to audit the activity and prevent non-professional and opaque behaviour by the management of this unique company for the country. "Bul Bio" owns the ownership of patents, trademarks and manufacturing documentation of all biopreparations produced, developed and implemented in the relevant laboratories of the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. Taking into account the importance of the records of products produced by the Enterprise, actions have been taken by the Ministry of Health to find professionals with international experience in the completion and accreditation of those products for the purpose of [[the President signals that time has run out]] The company to meet all international criteria and requirements for independent trade on international markets with these unique products. The company's activities will be monitored and monitored effectively and effectively in compliance with the good practices of the standard.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. So the observed trend that you are referring to because it is related for the previous year. 2017 compared to 2016 is not disturbing in the increase in costs and in the loss of income from other services. It is more worrying to reduce the production revenue by 9% because the Company produces.. has not fallen according to the standards and the quality of production is preserved, which is recognised in Europe, in Africa, in Asia we have markets. So this company according to the methods and standards of sound financial management, I hope, and its management takes measures not to lose such markets, on the contrary, to further develop the potential of the Company and not to pledge ourselves to such enslaving contracts. I have information in the media that the prosecution even investigates a contract that has been inherited for many years for the Society. I am optimistic and I wish the team of the Ministry of Health and of Boul Bio to exploit its potential, to preserve the existing markets of the Company around the world, but why not wish to develop them. Because I think it is very optimistic and realistic to talk that we will get more funds, more financial revenues for the state and for the Ministry in particular in terms of the sale of these products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, will you complete the reply regarding the line? There's been a dialogue, but you still have the right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I fully support your concern for the future of this truly unique enterprise. I can guarantee you that we monitor it on a daily basis, we take all the necessary measures that can be taken at any stage. As for some less advantageous contracts that have been concluded in the distant past, without going into detail, I would like to tell you that I am personally dealing with this issue and we are going to solve this multi-year case for the benefit of this unique enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is also a question for you from the National Representative Anton Kutev... [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi: "Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group."]] Mr. Kutev, they've requested the word from the DPS group. The chairman of the group, Mr. Karadayi. You have the floor for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Today we worship the feat of Hristo Botev and all the heroes who gave their lives for the freedom of Bulgaria. On 2 June we all pay tribute to the work, the word, and the covenants of Botev. Some, passing the glorious path of Botev and his reading, discover themselves, their love for the motherland. Others find and rediscover his word. Others turn his ideals into their own creed for life. In the words of Zahari Stoyanov, he was a man born and intended by the inexplicable elements to be a great man, to follow his crowds, to command and to do epochs. To Hristo Botev, with whom they are merged in one word and deed, fate assigns an important role to be among those who make eras that do not accept but change time with the strength of their determination and will to fight. The botite messages for the celebration of the eternal values of freedom and justice, of independence and solidarity are alive today and more necessary than ever. Indiscretion and admiration awaken enlightenment, brilliant poetic and publicist speech, the depth of his thought, far beyond national boundaries, his European worldview, his philosophical insights. He realized the power of unity, subjected his life to the ideal of freedom. For Botev freedom is an absolute right of man, it makes sense of his existence. Freedom means not just achieving national independence, but achieving social, personal and universal freedom. Today the ideas for solving the deep social contradictions and conflicts of European societies also sound very hot. Hristo Botev writes: "Only the reasonable and brotherly union among the nations is able to destroy the pulls, the poverty and parasites of the human race, and only this union is able to bring truth, freedom, brotherhood, equality and happiness to the globe. The understanding of Botev about freedom as creation, not as destruction, for building bridges between people and communities, not for division and opposition, respects and obliges. Each generation must be matched according to this measure. The memory of Botev and all who have dedicated their lives to being able to live today in a free and democratic country requires an answer: are we free, are we living in a democratic state, how do we understand unification and patriotism? Questions that everyone needs to find an answer to are honest and open. How does it happen at the end of the totalitarian regime to find a peaceful path, with a common will to build the foundations of democracy and united by universal human and European values, to move forward 20 years and then some to start undermining these foundations?! All men are equal, without distinction, as the Apostle also bequeathed, as it is written in our Constitution, but is it so? The memory of heroes for freedom and democracy requires answers: are we free, are we united, are we true to common human and European values, do we truly understand freedom, do we accept democracy as a vertuum symbol, do we realize what patriotism is? Patriotism is to love your motherland simply and clearly as are simple and clear embodied in the works of Botev ideals. Patriotism does not mean hating and questioning the right of everyone born on this earth to love their land, their motherland! History will not forgive those who, through populism, false patriotism and nationalism, put at risk the rights and freedoms, democracy and the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Today is a day of worship, a day of worship to all to whom we owe freedom and democracy, to all whom the pure and holy republic is the dream destiny, all who, in the name of freedom, equality, the brotherhood have outlived their time and their memory is alive. We turn to all for whom freedom is a value, democracy is a value, human dignity is a value, patriotism is an entity, to all who do not hate, not oppose, but unite and love. It's not enough to pay tribute to this day alone. It takes perseverance, a lot of reason, will and strength, determination, a lot of work and consistency to achieve true freedom and democracy to bequeath to future generations, not the questions that Botev and all fighters for freedom and democracy put, but the answers to bequeath a strong and prosperous Bulgaria in which all people are free and equal in dignity and rights, regardless of race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, origin, religion, education, political affiliation, personal and social status or property. Thus we will fulfill Botev's dream of a world of freedom, of unification, of creation, of democracy and the legacy of Levski. Dear colleagues, today is June 1st. June 1st is International Child's Day. Let's have a happy holiday! Dear children, you are the greatest gift to your parents and to the whole society. Be healthy and very happy, bring joy to your parents and everyone around you. Dream and follow your dreams bravely! To all who are responsible for the children and the young generation, which is the future of the country, I wish for a successful mission to enjoy a decent shift from free and active citizens! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. We continue with the questions to Minister Ananiev. The next question is from the MP Anton Kutev. It refers to the organization of the transplants carried out in Bulgarian patients. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I have asked my question in general in the specifics of the question of transplants, but I suppose you have understood that I am looking for a specific conversation about lung transplants. He is dictated by my serious concerns over several facts. The first of them is, at least from what I understand to date, we are not members of the European Transplant. By the way, we've never been members, we're an associate member. So my question as to whether we are members of the European Transplant is very important and that is why it is the first question. Of course, I am aware that, if we are not members of the European Transplant, there are other organisations that can carry out the same activity. The point is, as far as I know, we're not working with anyone else. But whether we work or not, you tell me. Is this other organization able in any way to replace... that is why it is my next question, which I have asked in writing: what is the policy you foresee about transplants? Because it's possible that you've come up with something I don't know by now. I quite positively ask the question: are we members of the European Transplant? If we're not, what's the thing we're predicting? This is the fact: for more than a year now, since 2014 lung transplants of Bulgarians have been done. They were never made in Bulgaria. You know all this, I say this about the House and the citizens. Seven lung transplants have been made since 2014, among other things all successful, all in Vienna. This is a good practice that has managed to go on with the years. For more than a year the Vienna Hospital no longer accepts for preliminary examination Bulgarian citizens. In 2017, there were 14 people of whom, for this one year, since I have been involved, I have had to deal with the problem as chairman of one of the committees in the National Assembly, three of these citizens have died. Five more are recorded. There's sixteen of them right now. There is only one person who, as far as I know, had his papers moved to the Vienna Hospital two or three weeks ago, but he was registered a month ago last year. It's a guy who's scheduled for a transplant early enough, and that's his chance that right now, as far as I know, he's on the move and he's about to get a transplant. We have a very serious problem here. The problem is that these 16 Bulgarian citizens, who are not clear how much more they will become, have virtually no chance of survival at the moment, and I really have been asking questions for you and Minister Penkov since before the New Year. On several occasions we had deliberate meetings of the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and the complaints of the citizens to whom we invited a minister, so that we could somehow move things in favour of the Bulgarian citizens, because this is one of the cases in which I feel that politics is killing in the most direct sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kutev! Mr. Chairman, could I not know if there is such a practice, but three minutes will be extremely small to answer this very important question for Bulgarian citizens?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u128	We will extend the time not by the Rules, but the questions you are asked are of such a nature that I leave enough time for you to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u129	Thank you. The organ exchange activities are carried out on the basis of a bilateral agreement between the "European Transplant" Foundation and the Transplant Executive Agency in force as of January 2014. The Agreement ensures that the state meets the quality and safety requirements of the transplant bodies submitted to the localization centre of the "Eurotransplant" in the absence of a recipient in Bulgaria. It enables us to submit authorities to the Member States of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bilateral agreement is signed for an unlimited period with the inclusion of a clause on the possibility of unilateral termination by both parties and is currently in force. Each year the Board of the European Transplant shall carry out an audit of all hospitals in the eight Member States of the On the basis of the results of the audit, the Board of the European Transport Agency shall authorise the continuation or termination of such bilateral agreements. In the four audits conducted from 2014 to 2017, the assessment for Bulgaria was positive based on the number of organs submitted in the missing recipient in Bulgaria and the fact that all submitted organs were successfully transplanted. The agreement with the "European Transplant" is a precondition and must be made before the signing of the bilateral agreement with the Transplantation Centre by a Member State of the "European Transplant" for the adoption of Bulgarian citizens for transplantation. The adoption of Bulgarian patients in need of lung transplantation was carried out under a Co-operation Agreement (A) between the Transplantation Centre in Vienna and the Transplantation Executive Agency concluded for a period of two years. During the period of operation of the Agreement between the Executive Agency for Transplantation Vienna, Bulgaria has provided organs for transplantation to the.............................................................................................. As a result, after the expiry of the deadline for the agreement in May 2017, the Board of the European Transplant has notified the Executive Agency that it approves Bulgaria's associated membership for the continuation of bilateral agreements. The new order of the signing of the Agreement on bilateral cooperation is presented in the response received by the Member State competent authority of the Centre, which is not a member of the European Transplant, i.e. the Transplant Executive Agency, and the Centre, which is not a member of the The request must be accompanied by a proposal containing the name of the centre, which is not a member of the At present, the Transplantation Executive Agency, under the legal framework, is committed to carrying out the necessary activities to carry out a joint operation with the transplant centres in Europe on the basis of bilateral and multilateral agreements. In this regard, at the beginning of April 2018, she submitted the necessary documents together with the application of the Bulgarian transplant centre for participation in bilateral cooperation in order to ensure the inclusion of Bulgarian patients in the list of awaiting lung transplantation in the European Transplant. Following the expiry of the bilateral agreement with the Centre in Vienna, the Transplantation Executive Agency has made contact with other European countries that are not a member of the There are currently pending offers from a hospital in France for three Bulgarian patients in need of lung transplantation, whose medical documentation is provided by the Executive Agency for transplantation at the said hospital for transplant assessment. An offer from England is also expected for a patient who needs a combined lung transplant. About the second part of your question. Under current legislation, the state policy in the field of transplantation is conducted by the Minister of Health. Beyond the scope of compulsory health insurance, Bulgarian citizens are provided a number of services, including those related to organ, tissue and cell transplantation. In order to improve the quality of the transplantation in 2017, the Ministry of Health updated national legislation by amending and supplementing six regulations transposing two European directives in the field of transplantation "EU/2015/565' and Commission Directive/2015/566 in order to ensure adequate funding over the last three years. The Ministry's budgets established for the year have been updated three times Regulation No 29 of 2007 on reimbursement of expenditure and the relative share of labour funds, on transplantation activities financed by the Ministry of Health. In 2016, the Ministry of Health concluded contracts under Regulation No 29 with 21 medical establishments and payments for 7 million were made. 470,000. lv.; contracts with 25 hospitals were concluded for 2017, respectively, and payments for 10 million were made. Nine hundred and eighty-six thousand. lv. For the two years total, 18 million. 456 thousand. lv. Information on organ transplants carried out from 2004 to 2017. 57 organ transplants were carried out on the site of the Executive Agency from 2004 to 2017. For 2016 57 organ transplants were performed by a dead and living donor, cardiac, liver from a dead and living donor. In 2017, the transplants performed were 58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kutev, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u131	Dear Minister, from what you are telling me, I understand that I am losing some 11 months in the sense that from May 2017 until April 2018, there is no movement of documents if I have understood you correctly. That is, if the transplant agency has only submitted in April 2018, it means that the name of these meetings with Boyko Penkov, which we have done in the Commission, has already been passed and only then measures have been taken. I understand that you were not a minister in 2017 and that you should not personally answer, but you are in the capacity of a health minister, so there is no other way to ask this question. Apparently, there are 11 months here, which, by the way, cost human lives, if I've got the time right. And if I have understood you correctly, you still didn't say definitively, do we have a renewed contract with the European Transplant, or did you say? I'm asking you to clarify, because at least for me, maybe I didn't understand you! Do we now have any agreements that can be relied on by the European Transplant? Why are you negotiating with other hospitals and not with the ones you've been working with so far, I don't understand?! But you probably have a reason for that. I mean, there's nothing wrong with negotiating with all the possible hospitals that give this opportunity, but I still see that there's some... I, by the way, have a letter here from May 28th, looking at Klepetko, who is the head of Vienna Hospital, in this letter of May 28th, that is, it is three or four days old, says that there is no way to conduct transplants in the Vienna Hospital of patients to countries that are outside the European Transplant. This is literally what he says, which means that we are obviously not working with the Vienna Hospital at the moment and obviously he considers us to be a state outside the European Transplant. And hopefully the measures that you have taken, because for me the most important thing is not here to say whether someone is guilty... it is your job to see how things are going. For me, the important thing is that there are 16 people who, unfortunately, are increasing, and who will always have them, for which a question of survival right now is whether this will happen. We have to take measures, but not in a year or three months, because in those three months, a few more of these people, unfortunately, will be gone, really gone. So, please, let me get this straight. I just want to make it clear so I know how to continue the work and we can do it from here on out. In other words, if we do not yet have a signed final agreement with the European Transplant, will we have it and when? This procedure that has started, you said, in April 2018, when will it end? The second is, what are we going to do specifically with lung transplants? I mean, are we going back to Vienna, are we going to look, because you're saying, "We're looking for others?" We can look for them for half a year, and in this time people are waiting. Not to mention that here the big problem is that they can get on the list of Vienna or some other hospital, and when a donor is going to be found, it's a completely different job. Our job with you is to get them on these lists of European hospitals once, and then they continue to wait for the right donor, because they are waiting for it some time and years and months, as long as they live to see it. So this is about things that can't be dragged out in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u132	We get it, Mr. Kutev. Thank you. Mr. Minister, to answer the supplementary questions, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kutev, we are really having intense conversations about the European Transplant. I don't want to commit to a specific deadline. I think I need a few weeks to finalize these conversations, but still in the context that these are confidential conversations, so I don't want to open this topic anymore. We are working, at least this team, which is now actively working on the conclusion of the new treaty. We are also looking for other hospitals for a reason, and in several countries, because in some of these hospitals the conditions are quite severe and in size, such as money, such as procedures, such as the duration of the patient's stay. So we are working in four countries at the moment and are looking for where the most possible treatment conditions for the transplantation of Bulgarian citizens will be. No way, at least our team hasn't stopped working on it. In fact, I would like to tell you that we are working on training of Bulgarian doctors for transplantation, including pulmonary. We are not just looking for the solution for the moment, but we are also looking at the perspective of how we can develop this activity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for your answer. We have broken the rules over time, but I very much hope that this will contribute to the result of your efforts to Mr. Kutev and your efforts, Mr. Minister. Good luck to you. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question concerns the problems and measures to support rose production with a view to protecting the state and preventing non-profitable buying-in prices of the pink color. As it should be, it is set by three ladies.. MPs Nadia Zhekova, Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova. The issue will develop the people representative Nadia Zhekova. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the rose is the most recognizable Bulgarian symbol and we are obliged to protect this achievement of Bulgaria. Two thirds of the world's production of rose oil is concentrated in Bulgaria. Our country has natural and climatic resources that guarantee unique conditions for growing the oil rose, and Bulgarian rose oil is listed as a protected geographical indication. In eight years, since 2009, rose gardens have increased by about 20% and reached 41,000. This year's decare. The most suitable for oil rose is the relatively limited area in size between Stara Planina and Sredna Gora to the west through Strelcha, Karlovo, Kazanlak, Chirpan, Stara Zagora to Zimnitsa to the east, where the largest share of production is concentrated. Unfortunately, this year the bought-out campaign of the pink color escalates a number of problems. First, screaming low is the buying-in price of the pink color, it is not profitable and below the cost level, showed a lack of long-term vision by the state for this industry and a doubt about a cartel agreement because months before the harvest came out, the price was clear and it is almost identical everywhere. In this regard, it is important to know: what is your opinion on this issue, even though it is within the competence of the Commission for Protection of Competition? It is important to ensure more effective and protective mechanisms for access to more state and European subsidies and specific subsidies for rose production from the state budget in order to ensure adequate buying-in prices and support for native roses this year. During the meetings you have made in the Committee on Agriculture and with the protesters, you declare that you will take a de minimis decision according to European requirements so that the income of the rose producers can be effectively supported. But how real will de minimis be, because minimum support from one lev is enough, but when will you make this decision and specifically what size will it be? Moreover, during these meetings you made a commitment to the Rose Act, so commit to a deadline when will the draft of this law be ready? It must regulate the process from seeding material to processing in distilleries. Another support that could have been renegotiated by the State is related to the "Omnibus". By the end of June, tied support may also be offered. In this regard: what are all the measures that the Ministry of Agriculture will propose to support native roses?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u137	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, Ms. Nencheva, Mrs. Simeonova! Firstly, I would like to start by saying that today, at 11:00, the work of the Commission or the working group started, which, by my order, was created under the Rose Act. I haven't had a chance to find her, and I probably won't have a chance to see them now that I'm back, but we've given clear instructions to start this job. The working group shall be invited both producers and processors and by the scientific circles and, of course, the entire expertise of the Ministry, including the secondary officers available. At the meetings we have made, it is extremely fruitful for me and therefore I would like to thank Mrs Nencheva, who was present both at the Ministry and at the other meetings. We have made a vision that this law is good to be done, firstly, very high quality and to be brought directly with maximum political support in Parliament, so that we do not waste time for the long adoption through the Council of Ministers. Of course, before we offer it to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, we will make the relevant public discussion with meetings with stakeholders so that we can reflect one thing or another that is extremely important. The aim is undoubtedly to preserve the name of the Bulgarian rose production and the Bulgarian rose products. Yes, with the overproduction of this year, the deformities have emerged or, more precisely, the weaknesses that have arisen in recent years. You know very well that pretty much over 20% is the growth of rose production. 2018 registration on the campaign, which ended on September 15th, is now 43,500,41 thousand were last year. The main problem was buying the pink colors this week, in which we had because of the climate the most active sunshine, the most active bloom of color that had to be robbed. The most victims turned out to be rose producers without contracts. You know, at the meeting that was in the Ministry, a commitment was made to buy maximum from distilleries, regardless, even exceeding 100% of the daily capacity, so that we have minimal loss of color. Yeah, the color's gone. It was destroyed precisely for this reason because almost all rose gardens, including those at higher altitudes, were active blooming in this week. Correct me if I'm wrong right now, but the information we have is that there are no more unbought quantities. The campaign is over, at the 3rd, the 4th will be completed, there will be no unbought quantities, including producers without a contract. That's true. What are the lessons? The lessons are that we should regulate the subject with the Law and have clear commitments of a distillery manufacturer so that we are not surprised why we are not buying the color in one situation or another. I do not need to mention what you know that because of the active desire to have a good income, and good income there has been in the past two years it is not a secret, many Bulgarian citizens planted roses that are not of the Bulgarian variety Damascena. They would be a problem because we also consider in the Law to settle precisely this color, which gives the quality of the Bulgarian pink product outside. Speaking of financial parameters, we did the analysis of the Institute of Rose in the various types of cost in terms of harvest, because the harvest in some places exceeds 400 kilograms, and many larger numbers are expected to be obtained. The value depends on this varies around two levs, regardless of who claims for expenses. Yes, there is an uncontrollable cost that has proved very crucial and leading. This is the cost of picking, and here we should jointly think about how to provide and subsequently stimulate the rose-pickers, precisely in this period of active picking. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We'll do the analysis from a cost perspective. I've planned on the 8th of this month to make the Board of Directors, until then it'll be clear what the harvest is, what the cost is, we'll have some indication of average prices. Of course, by no means do I want to talk about a lev, he bid, with one lev we have nothing to cover at these costs. You know very well that registered farmers receive direct aid, basic payments and others. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Biological production gets a subsidy that covers much more of their costs, so we'll do an analysis and give it a breath. The problem is that once again the most victims who are not registered, they will not be able to receive this help. Of course, I suppose you have a clear belief that we took this very seriously. Until now it had not appeared because everything was wonderfully high buying prices everywhere, including the sale of Bulgarian pink products, but it is indeed a product that needs to enter a stable framework in terms of its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! On May 19, along with the protesters, I was in the area of the town of Karlovo. Then we made the first meeting and fixed the first problem that was created among the people and registered as such. I thank you for recalling your problem immediately. The next day, May 20, we were together at a meeting at the Ministry. I just want to say that from this meeting I stayed with the taste of a moral lesson from the rosoprocessors to the little rose producers. I agree with the opinion that everyone should be registered. There are probably small rose producers who have not registered their production and the areas of the crop. There are also people who have filed a declaration under art. Art. 69, Art. 70 of Regulation No 3, and thus have the opportunity to declare their production. My point is this: when we talk about incomes from small rose producers, there is no way to talk about huge amounts of money that they are hardly accused of being in the grey economy sector, that they undermine the authority of the state and at all of rose production. I'll give you one particular example. People who at the end of the campaign registered under art. Art. 69, Art. 70 with a decare and a half, over the entire period they managed to dial 700 kg of pink color. For these 700 kg they get 1,600 leva. and pay taxes 160 BGN. The rest of the money is needed throughout the year to pay for processing with a tractor, for fertilizer, for fertilization, for cutting the arrays and separately for roserachers. I want to clear the issue of the hard work of the Bulgarian. Where it can be useful, it is useful and does not abuse, if we have not put it in such conditions. I am pleased to hear that there has already been a working group that will draft a Rose Bill if I have understood correctly. And I want you to specify in the duplicate: how long have you determined the term of this working committee to be, so we know what expectations we should have? We found out about the de minimis. I think your comment is the most arguated answer that can satisfy us, but I do not understand what your attitude towards the Ministry's tied support is. I believe that we are all uniting around the opinion that the state should actually take on a strict and disciplined role in order to protect and guarantee both rose production and rose processing. To really bet on the hard work of the Bulgarians, who in small decares can honestly and fairly bring income that they have regulated before the state. There will probably be other questions, but I hope the Rose Act will be working quality because we have such bills from the Thirty-Sixth to the Thirty-nineth National Assembly, that is, there is a need for such a regulation for rose production and rose cultivation. I think it is important at this point that the state takes a serious position so that we do not go to such problems next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u140	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to add. You're absolutely right, and no one in any way has left the little ones aside. Those who have registered under the Ordinance will set up an organisation, they will receive de minimis this year, regardless. Of course, this has to happen. We created an organization, including our municipal services, were in place continuously so that these people could register. They won't be so heavy in de minimis. With regard to the debate, I think it was very helpful. Some lines were exchanged on both sides and on the other side, but eventually producers and processors agreed that they should be together, to be one, to preserve, firstly, good relationships and, secondly, to preserve the traditions in this production. They cannot do without each other, although part of the processors have created capacities, have their contracts and so on. I wouldn't want to be concerned about whether or not there's a cartel agreement. In my opinion, some people very quickly announced such a thing. A karmic agreement is a very serious matter. Does it mean that we have to say that there was a cartel agreement when you were buying 4 levs from everyone, 5 levs from everyone and so on? The market situation itself and the huge yield itself, which appeared, suggested lower buying prices this year. Of course, a very important topic that we talked about, but we missed it, we also need to settle the status of the so-called sellers, because they, taking on certain differences in the chain, create tensions in the system. With regard to the term in the Law, I did not take the order, it is our idea by the end of July to have a public discussion and to submit to Parliament, more precisely to propose to Parliament with maximum support a draft to be quite well developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Hamid Hamid concerning a violation in the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Ivanov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Today, on the agenda of parliamentary control, we are putting the issue of the state-owned economy. As long as my memory does not lie, this question has been developed repeatedly, as the information and data that arrives at us are not two for violations committed. In this regard, I and my colleague Hamid ask the question to be answered: have checks been carried out on the activities of the State-owned State-owned enterprises.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What are the findings of the checks carried out? What measures have been taken to remedy alleged violations? What is your position as Minister for what is happening on the basis of these checks if they have been carried out? To tell us because the public, the citizens of the municipality of Varbitsa, and not only the region of Shumen, are keenly interested in what is happening there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u145	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Hamid, in execution of my order on 8 March this year and in execution of an order from the same date as the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency on 8 and 9 March 2018, an inspection of the activities of the Territorial Department................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One of the main findings of the verification are the following. First of all, financial activity. The dual signature system shall be applied in all documents, the registry of the control sheets shall not be kept on a regular basis and shall not comply with the requirements of the instruction on how to carry out ex ante control of the documents and actions relating to the financial management and control activities of the Northeastern State enterprise. Payments under a civil contract have been made without taking into account implementation and drawing up reception and transmission protocols. Under the Law on Forests and the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game. It is not sufficient to justify the termination of the proceedings under three constant protocols for 2017 for infringements under the Forest Act. Actors make errors in the drawing up of acts establishing administrative infringements, in some cases delaying the provision of additional information or the removal of omissions. There have been violations in the certification of logging of 22 logging permits for 2017 related to non-compliance with a 30-day period laid down in the Forest Act. In 2018, no relevant technological plans, carnet inventory and sorting payrolls were registered for six logging permits in the information system of the Executive Forest Agency. In some carnets, no explanation is given by the marking forestrymen about the excesses of the marked mass compared to the intended cuts. Deficit in the identification of violations under the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act and in completing the props of the relevant plan, the file was not sent to the Regional Forests Directorate Shumen within the statutory deadline. In relation to those findings of the verification, an act establishing an administrative infringement has been drawn up on the Director of the holding. According to the Act drawn up by the Director of the RFG, Shumen was issued a corresponding criminal decree, which imposed an administrative penalty on the Director of the State Holding. In 2018, the Regional Forest Directorate "Shoumen" carried out checks on 30 timber mining sites in state forest areas operated by the state-owned State-owned forestry company "Vrbitsa." At the beginning of the year it was found that no part of the required documents were registered in some of the sub-sections in the information system of the Forest Executive Agency. Prescriptions have been given for these and other omissions which have been subsequently removed. The register of logging carried out for 2017 and 2018 shall be kept on a regular basis and the records of the plantings shall contain the required documents. In field inspections of plantings in which logging is carried out, no violations have been detected, and in the places where the logging is taken, the plantings are in good condition. It is also found that the described loggings were carried out in accordance with a contract for repair activities related to cleaning the part occupied by a landslide along a road route of a forest road of mineral water. Honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to assure you that the Northeastern State Enterprise, the Regional Forest Directorate, Shumen, the Forest Executive Agency and the Ministry will continue to carry out periodic checks to prevent and prevent violations of the activities carried out by the State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned enterprises. I'm familiar with the details, I've spoken to them, and I can't hide that the matter with a management decision to change the principal is standing before me, but I haven't made a decision yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Hamid. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, after so many serious systemic violations that have been piling up in the State Department for years, what else needs to happen to fire this man? What do you mean, it's on your desk, but you haven't decided what to do yet? The report itself, and according to what you read, contains such serious and systematic violations, which, in the opinion of most lawyers, border on crime, constitute articles of the Penal Code. My additional question is: have you sent this report to the prosecution because it does contain very serious violations that may constitute crimes? Are there political reasons that prevent you from doing your job?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u149	I need to see if the report was sent to the D.A.'s office. Honestly, I'm not in the loop, so I'm gonna check it out. With regard to decision-making, I do not take into account some or other political reasons. As I told you, it's not on my desk, but it's in the process of making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Prof. Bachvarova and Rumen Georgiev. It is about the state policy and the readiness of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry through the Executive Agency to prevent damage to the population and farmers. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent years there has been an increase in the frequency and strength of dangerous phenomena such as hails, floods, tornados and lightnings in Bulgaria. Forecasts made on the basis of numerical models in different climate change scenarios confirm this increase in the future. One of the geographical areas where a significant increase in extreme cases is predicted is Southeast Europe. The protected territory of the Executive Agency is 1 million. 720 thousand. hectares of which 1 million $120,000. The hectares are arable land, permanent crops and mixed areas in the regions of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora and Sliven. The activities of the Executive Agency are related to preventing the formation of large hail beans in the clouds. In Bulgaria, a method of delivery of a reagent is adopted: artificial ice-forming cores in the cloud via rockets. However, in order to achieve success, it is necessary to perform reagent sowing at an early stage in the development of the clouds before the formation of large hail beans. Eight regional directorates, nine command posts and their belonging missile sites are set up and operating in the Agency. So far, everything is the case, but the information we have from last month and in the media is as follows: ice pieces such as snowfalls. This at the end of May is seen in the streets of Panagyurishte, 61 liters of rain per square meter have fallen in two hours, and the hail has rained for nearly an hour. The damage to the people with gardens in Panagyurishte is very great. Only what's been saved under anti-city nets. The victims have no insurance, and now they have nothing left but to sow again. Hail devastated Vrachanski and Plevensko. A hail the size of a walnut fell in Montana and so on and so forth. Dear Minister, the recorded damage from hails brings enormous losses both to the population and to farmers. Our question to you with Professor Bachvarova is: what is the state policy and readiness of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to provide the necessary missiles and other material means to prevent this natural disaster? Are funds provided for the normal work of the polygons of the Executive Agency? How will farmers who are already registering hail damage be compensated? What is the Ministry's reform policy in this sector in order to reduce losses and damage from hail? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u153	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Professor Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Georgiev! The active season for fighting hails for 2018 was opened on 24 April. At the beginning of the season, the Agency had 8600 missiles. The beginning of the active season in urban protection for 2018 is characterized by high frequency and intensity of urban processes. From April 24th to May 28th, 101 active anti-city impacts were carried out and 459 cloud cells with just over 5,000 rockets were processed. The effects were carried out throughout the protected territory, with the most urbanly dangerous clouds registered in the Upper Thracian lowland. According to preliminary data from the committees of the municipal agriculture services on the damage caused by the strongest so far, developed on 15 May in the protected territory, namely Montana, Vratsa and Pleven, the areas brought to 100% hit by hail are about 2,000 acres, which is eight times less compared to the damage outside the protection. The agency delivered another 2,000 rockets on 22 May to ensure the proper and full conduct of the protection against hails. For this purpose, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall initiate a procedure to approve additional funds of more than 5 million. lv. for 2018 for the purchase of anti-city missiles. For these additional funds, we are applying for them in any case every year, and they are not laid down in our budget by means of the central budget or precisely by means of the budget to combat disasters that is in the central budget. The other material means of carrying out city protection are doppler weather radars, missile launchers and other anti-urban equipment concerning the two new polygons and aircraft. In 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry provided the necessary means for the functioning of the Agency. Funds are provided to increase employees' salaries under an agreement concluded between the Ministry, trade unions and employees of the Agency. The resources for staff under the Agency's budget provided for at the beginning of this year are 10% more than last year. There is also an increase in the maintenance and capital cost indicators. A procedure is currently under way to amend the Agency's Rules of Procedure concerning the increase in staff numbers in relation to the opening of the two new hail control polygons. Until now, the Ministry has provided the necessary funding for the purchase of anti-urban missiles and for payments under contracts to which the Urbans Agency is a party and a contracting entity for the supply of other equipment. I'm opening up a clamp, almost all our capital expenditures in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget as necessary at this stage are going to the Agency for the Fight against hails. Our debate was also a coincidence: is capital expenditure sufficient during the budgetary procedure? You know that very well. In view of the rapid management of severe situations in the sector of Agriculture and the protection of farmers in extreme weather situations in accordance with European Union legislation, a State aid scheme is applied in the field of State aid, namely compensation for damage to agricultural crops caused by adverse climatic events which may be caused or assimilated to a natural disaster. Supporting farmers is precisely an amount of 80 per cent of the actual costs of growing a crop during the relevant business year. Actual costs shall be calculated on the basis of technological maps, adverse climatic conditions for which compensation from frost, storms, hail, icy, drenches, continuous rain or severe coldness is paid. The condition for receiving support shall be that the farmer holds a constant protocol for 100% falling areas issued by a committee. State aid shall be reduced by 50 per cent, unless it is granted to farmers who have concluded insurance covering at least 50% of their annual average production or their related income. Aid for co-financing of insurance premiums in respect of agricultural production shall apply to the promotion of farmers to voluntary agricultural production insurance. Support covers insurance for the following crop types: fruit, stone, berry, nuts, south, table grapes, vegetable, namely Polish and greenhouse, essential oil and tobacco. The maximum support amount shall be up to 65% of the value of the insurance premium. Unfortunately, for years on this aid, there has been no serious activity by our farmers, even though we cover this 65 percent amount of the insurance premium. Here, of course, is the topic of the relationship between farmers and insurers, which is also a very long topic. With regard to the ICG's reform policy in the sector in order to reduce losses and damage from hails. In recent years, we have seen climate change and the increase in adverse weather phenomena, the emergence of hails in areas that have not been affected so far. This requires the need to rethink the scope and methods of protection in the country. It is also imperative to review the way the system is financed, insofar as it no longer adequately reflects the social and economic changes that have occurred in recent decades, especially after the country's accession to the European Union. In this context, we provide for a comprehensive reform of urban protection, both in terms of the inherent characteristics, scope and methods of protection and of the social relations arising from the implementation process. What are the main elements of the reform? The proposed reform is aimed at ensuring full coverage of the country's territory by the hail-action system. This will be achieved by expanding and renewing the current system to combat hails, namely the missile method that currently covers 11 million. acres of agricultural land and 17 with urbanized territories around them, which you can see for yourself. This is 30% of agricultural arable land and therefore what part of the territory is. And, more importantly, we need to introduce an aircraft method for the rest of the country's territory, which is much cheaper if we go with hailstones and playgrounds and so on. The use of aviation will enable the protection not only of agricultural land but also of urbanised territories. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm almost there. The following steps have been taken to implement these aspects of the reform. There have been investments in equipment and actions taken to build by the end of 2018 on 36 new rocket sites, four radars have been purchased, two have already been installed. Change in the funding model. The extension of the scope of city protection is related to this significant increase in the means of carrying out the activity requires diversification of sources of funding, and in addition to the State, farmers are envisaged to participate. We have also foreseen insurance companies to make deductions by paying compulsory contributions. To manage the risk of hailing is envisaged to create a state enterprise under the Commercial Law, with the Executive Agency entering it. The legal entity form of a State enterprise corresponds mostly to the specifics of the activity to be carried out as well as in the way of funding. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has developed a draft law governing matters concerning the creation of this activity and the state enterprise. The package of documents, including both the draft law and the overall preliminary assessment, has already been published for public discussion and you, I suppose, have met it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The importers of the questioning, you have the opportunity to ask two additional questions. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! As you mentioned the increased salaries, you remember very well that when we discussed the draft budget for this year, it was about the low wages in the sector. These two and a half million, which were allocated to increase wages, actually covered the 50 BGN difference in the increase of the minimum wage of 460 BGN. BGN 510. This leads to the turnover of rocket launchers and many of the specialists. This is one of the major problems at the Agency. According to your statement, the only chance for farmers to do what you have just said to reduce the damage from hail is to adopt the new law, which will change the status of the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails and will extend the scope of the protected areas. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry announced as early as March that it envisioned the introduction of a mandatory annual fee of 50 cents per decare, with over 61 000 farmers paying the new compulsory annual fee. However, the insurance companies came up with a firm stand against this law. If I may, a little more clarity in this area as well. By decision of 27 September 2016, the Vratsa Municipal Council decided to grant almost 2 decares for the creation of a new missile site. On 1 November 2016, an unlimited contract was concluded with the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails. The Director of the Agency has said that there is no funding and that is why there has been no movement for the second year on the construction of this new missile site. But with my colleague, MP from Vratsa Nikolai Ivanov and I have been contacted by farmers from the region who are ready to join the funding for the construction of this site in terms of equipment, equipment, of course, not rockets. My question is therefore: does the Agency so far have such practice, whether there is a legal possibility, and what is envisaged in the new law in this direction? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to complete your reply within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u157	We've discussed it in both the Ministry and publicly many times. Yeah, we definitely delayed that law a little bit. The idea is for him to come in and work from the business year 2019 in good faith, so he is currently in public discussion. We will try to bring it in at the beginning of Parliament's autumn term to be of your attention. Currently, we cover, as you can see, 30% of the agricultural territories Dekara with the urbanized part, but everything else is at the mercy of climate change, which this year has shown that they are much more cruel. The example that you gave at the beginning that we had damage if these clouds were not treated, as the Urbans Agency said in a report on television, perhaps this level that they showed would be like a tractor plow, not much smaller city nipples. The concept of covering the whole country must have solidarity in the revenue section. The State must undoubtedly retain its share, its share, but also farmers as protected in this case, who wish to be protected. If we continue to build a rocket system, it is much more expensive, with much more spending during the year and much slower. An aeroplane's vehicle is already applied, including for landing. The idea is to provide funding to move into a state-owned enterprise, providing the state component of revenue. That's the smartest thing we've ever offered. Before me, there was a project that was nearly 90 cents. They will not cover pastures because it is not the most important to protect them. Not that it's not important, but it's not cost-effective. With the aircraft, defending the entire country, urbanized territories will be covered. Covering urbanised territories will also enable damage reduction in them, including reducing the costs insurance companies currently make for helmets of cars, property insurance and so on. That is why we have allowed ourselves to make a solidarity and the insurance community in these revenues by applying 0.7% of their annual revenues. They are public in three of their insurance fields. The biggest of them is the helmet, and then they are agricultural and other property. With a component of about 5 million. lv. Each year, with the state's component and with the farmers' contributions, we make it possible for the state enterprise to accumulate resources around and slightly over 20 million. BGN to be able to start the coverage of the whole country so that we do not talk to you every day about the salaries of these employees, about turnover and so on. At the moment, the Ministry of Agriculture has a chronic shortage for the budget of the entire system. The law in question would give the opportunity to launch. I will personally launch public procurement under the condition that we submit the Aircraft Act so that the public procurement for the aircraft method can go away under the condition that it is approved and a similar undertaking is created. If not, there will be no such service. It's a very serious subject. We mentioned the compensations we make under the schemes. Yes, the problems are very frostbite, hails and others. There are very good ways to work with the frost. There's a lot of good piloting for the orchards. We can't cover that. It must be within the costs of farmers. We will try to bring this bill to Parliament's attention at the beginning of September. I hope that a good solution will be found for the future development of the overall system in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Bachvarova, you have an opportunity to respond to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, honourable ministers! During the spring storms, hails were able to cause quite serious damage to farmers. These are the facts in April and especially in May. You've got yourself an ambitious task of 100% coverage. This will be a third attempt in which the state will try to reform. In 2009, there was talk of setting up a state-owned company, i.e. the Executive Agency being a state-owned company. In 2016, there was another concept which was discussed quite widely, but it did not reach its acceptance and realization in practice. There is also now a proposal which is a little confusing for me, because the proposal for a law and for a change of the status of the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails is said above all about prevention from hails. The title of the bill is "Prevention of adverse climatic events in agriculture." They're not one. The drought was perhaps one of the biggest challenges in 2007, but there were frosts, floods, which represents an exceptional risk to agriculture. I accept that the title of the Bill should solve the problem of risk and conservation of crops, but it is systematized and grouped only in the fight against hails. I do not have the opportunity to ask a question, but is it still thinking whether an agency or, in this case, a state-owned enterprise can address these issues? Because otherwise, we will be faced with much more challenges and the payment of losses to farmers under any scheme cannot lead to the possibility of them providing income from what they consider to have invested as funds. The other question that my colleague has also raised is about the problem with the insurance company. I read their opinion. It is strongly against their participation with funds in this state-owned enterprise. Perhaps in dialogue, in talks this issue should be resolved because without their participation in practice, reforms in this direction cannot be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u160	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. With the attitude taken, the participation in the procedure ends. Let me thank Minister Porozhanov for his participation in the weekly program, in which he tried to enlighten us on all the topics in his field, and for his participation in today's meeting. We move on to questions to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, who will answer a question of the National Representative Hristo Prodanov. It is regarding a delay in the extension of the period for certificates of category of accommodation. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In recent weeks, I have been contacted by owners of accommodations who are referring to a problem with the renewal of the categorizations of these accommodations. They are all old sites that have been categorized and which have expired the 5-year period of categorization and they under the Tourism Act have complied with the 3-month period before the expiry of the 5-year period of categorisation and have submitted applications to the Ministry of Tourism in relation to the renewal of the categorisation of these hotels. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Tourism seems to have some problem and there is a delay because one of these hotel owners has been waiting for a seventh month, which actually makes him vulnerable at the beginning of the season. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures are you taking to resolve this problem, because it is clearly quite serious, at least in the words of these owners that I have spoken to? My second question is: how many total are these objects waiting for a decree to extend the category? I mean, this is about hotels that don't want a change of category in a higher class, they just want the same category to be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Madam Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u163	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Prodanov, according to the government management programme, the main priority of the entire cabinet and, in particular, of the Ministry of Tourism is reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. A significant specific management policy in this direction was realized by adopting the amendments proposed by the Council of Ministers to the Tourism Act a little more than a month ago, under which the requirements for providing 19 types of documents had to be submitted in paper form so far. This measure actually eases the arrangements for securing administrative services related to the categorisation of accommodations. The Ministry of Tourism carries out its very precise management, regulation and control obligations on tourism activities, services and sites, as amended by the Law on Tourism. Tourism was recognized as a major state priority in the second term of Prime Minister Borisov, with from the structuring of the independent ministry at the end of 2014 so far Bulgaria marks two consecutive years of record number of foreign tourists 8 million. 200,000. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this 900,000. for 2017, as well as record proceeds from foreign tourism according to BNB data.6 billion for 2016 and 6.6 billion for 2017. The high rate of development in the tourism sector also provides for a proportional increase in the volume of investment and provision of services in the field. Against the background of the overall progress, the regulation of these activities suggests increasing the volume of work on their administration. We are doing our utmost to meet the needs of the growing tourist market by working in parallel on the re-categorized deadlines of the already existing sites, as well as to serve new ones. The case you are raising has the character of separate exceptions which are addressed absolutely in due time. In this regard, I take the opportunity to inform you that 676 applications for the categorization of accommodations, restaurants and entertainment, tourist lodges, tourist sites, centres and restaurants have been processed from the very beginning of this term, including declarations confirming the category of already classified tourist sites. In addition, 433 files with findings of irregularities that needed removal from the sender were considered. 483 temporary certificates for open procedure for grading tourist sites were issued. Over 60 expert inspections were carried out throughout the country for a total of 642 sites. Currently, the total issued certificates for categorization of checked sites are 623 pieces. In conclusion, I inform you that since the creation of the Ministry of Tourism with each passing year a higher volume of activity is being carried out according to the functions of the Ministry of Tourism as a result of the successful efforts to upgrade the results of the increase of the incoming tourist traffic. With regard to the issue of the measures we are taking, as I have explained, they are timely and adequate. We're organizing several groups at the same time. I'm opening brackets to the department's number, which deals with categorization and re-categorization, is nine people who have to circle in groups of at least three beams. That's what we do in the whole country. At present, checks have been carried out on 642 objects and 623 pieces have been issued. The remaining 19 to be issued are in the mixed committees that we create together with the business representatives. So everything is addressed in a timely manner. Once again, when there are individual cases of delays, it is nice to address them immediately and directly to the Ministry so that, if they are not included in the relevant expert group, they can be made. I believe that very precisely and accurately all applications are processed and this is seen from the number of such applications submitted and processed within the framework of the beginning of the mandate so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u164	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I must tell you that you have made a brief report on what the Ministry of Tourism has done in its short existence, but you have not answered any of my questions. They were two specifics: how many are these sites that are subject to categorization and are in default, and what measures does the Ministry take in this regard? This does not concern a new site which is subject to initial categorisation by the teams you are saying about the committee. This is done by employees of the Ministry of Tourism, I think, under Article 133 of the Tourism Act, I repeat, for old categorized sites that have had their five years since they received the first, second or no matter which categorisation. Please answer me in the back, how many of these objects are there? You have an application statement filed by these hotel owners, so you need to have information. Personally, I have a signal from three of these hotel owners. I do not claim the exact number, but the people who approached me claim that this is a serious problem created by the Ministry of Tourism. The other more important issue and problem that we are creating for these people with inactivity or because of the inability to do our job is that they are practically all currently in default and are not categorized objects. At the same time, they have signed contracts with tour operators since the end of last season or the winter months of this year when the tourist exhibitions were. In these contracts, there are clauses indicating that the relevant tour operator has signed a contract with a categorized accommodation, which is de facto not such at this time. If we go into a hypothesis, you know, a lot of foreign tourists as soon as they step on Bulgarian territory immediately start looking for ways to complain about irregularities so that someone can cover their holiday in Bulgaria in one way or another, especially the tour operator. The tour operator will in turn condemn the hotelier for failing to comply with any of the clauses in the contract. Then the hotelier with no problem in any court will condemn the state for it. My question is, who pays for this inaction? Are the taxpayers paying again because obviously this will not happen from the state subsidy of GERB, for example, whose representative you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Mr. Prodanov! I see you've read the Tourism Act, but you're not fully informed. Each re-crategorisation procedure complies with the exact same requirements as for a new categorisation. In this regard, there is no difference and you can say that they have already had a categorization and now suddenly they have a new recategorization, they have to apply and apply. There's a different procedure. They're going exactly the same way. They are included in the committees that are at the Ministry of Tourism. They are included in the committees with experts from the Ministry and representatives of the industry who check the submitted documents, check on the spot and then establish whether the requested category for precategorisation meets the requirements of the Law and is accordingly carried out with the issue of a categorisation certificate. In order to facilitate business and not to fall into hypotheses that you mentioned, as we have established as pending ones with the creation of the Ministry, at the start of any re-categorisation procedure we issue temporary certificates that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u168	Four months.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u169	I'm saying they have temporary certificates issued. Where temporary certificates are issued, they fully comply with and comply with the requirements of a permanent certificate, which means that they are not vulnerable to the Law and can categorically defend themselves to the relevant tour operator. That is why we have introduced this mechanism so that, if there is any delay, we issue temporary certificates with the start of the procedure. That's why I read to you that 483 temporary certificates have been issued for the open re-categorization procedures. So, when they have a temporary certificate, people are not vulnerable to their contracts with tour operators and with regard to checks by other control bodies. I can assure you, and this is visible, again I say, from the figures I have shared, about the checks carried out and the applications submitted for categorisation and re-categorisation from May last year, from the beginning of the third term, that there is absolutely no delay in processing. What I saw as a difference and read it to you in my reply is that 642 number of on-the-spot checks have been carried out and 623 numbers of final certificates have been issued on the categorized objects. After each verification, it shall be announced to the Commission what has been found and additional information or additional activity is required depending on the category required, which also takes time and this depends on the applicant's actions. I do not think it is correct to accuse the Ministry of Tourism of deliberately delaying one or another procedure. The procedures for initial categorisation and re-categorisation, with regard to checks and the way checks are carried out, shall have the exact same composition. It does not matter whether a new procedure is launched now or whether the check is resold is the same in order to determine whether it meets the facts and circumstances that have been claimed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This concludes your participation "There are no other questions for you. Thank you for your answers. We move on to a question to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, asked by the National Representative Todor Bajchev about the profile of the candidates who applied for Bulgarian citizenship. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! The Bulgarian citizenship of one person represents a political-legal relationship of the person, of the individual of a state with the state, and apart from that the state exercises its public authority over a particular territory and a certain population. Due to the legal nature of the civil establishment of a political-legal relationship, this depends entirely on the conditions laid down in the domestic legislation of the country concerned. The legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria has delegated powers and rights to the Ministry of Justice and to you as principal to the Ministry of Justice. What impresses me when I pass by the Ministry of Justice and the Agency for Bulgarians abroad is that there are quite large queues of people outside who are literally eager to become Bulgarians. Eventually, however, these people disappear from the country. I cannot say whether the target group we are targeting is wrong, but these people are subsequently missing from Bulgaria, from its social, political and economic life. Bulgarian employers are constantly alerting and asking for relief of the regime for obtaining Bulgarian civil rights in order to recruit workers and deal with the economic problems that arise. Is this the way and is this the possibility? The National Assembly is constantly speculated by various political parties, including MPs in the current National Assembly, with the number of applications for Bulgarian citizenship. My question to you is as follows: what is the profile of the candidates who applied for Bulgarian citizenship for one year - the time during which you are the Minister of Justice: from May 2017 to May 2018? Is there a trend from which it can be concluded what attracts candidates to submit documents for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u172	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Baychev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Justice is fulfilling its obligations, which have been included in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, the Rules on the Application of the Law and the Ordinance on Policies, which take place on the acquisition, refusal or withdrawal of Bulgarian Citizenship. For the period for which your question is, a one-year period, the time for which the political leadership is under my control in the Ministry, the number of applications submitted, respectively the files for change of Bulgarian citizenship, are 18,921. Of this number 17 793 the number of files are of candidates who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship; 774 are the applications for the restoration of Bulgarian citizenship and 354 of the cases for the exemption from Bulgarian citizenship. The question as you asked it: what is the profile of the candidates? I could specifically inform you about the number of different countries from which at this time were citizens who made a request for Bulgarian citizenship. The most requests made on grounds of origin were submitted by persons of Macedonia 10 252; they followed by Ukraine 1894; Albania 1510, Serbia 1013; Moldova 851; Turkey 763; Israel 763; Russia? 359, and other countries. There are also persons who do not have the nationality of any country. What is important to know is that 187 of these persons from all applications submitted are persons living in other countries. Of the files that their applicants wish to acquire Bulgarian citizenship on a general basis of naturalization, the most requested by Russian citizens For this one-year period of those formed, I said, 18,921 files here I would like to say that the files that have been filed, some of them have been submitted in previous periods, but in this one-year period the interview has been conducted and has started the procedure, the Council of Citizenship, which is the authority of the Ministry of Justice, with the participation of representatives of the Foreign Ministry, Ministry of Interior, DANS, the Regional Ministry in the face of the PROO have examined a total of 16 313 files. Of this total number of examined files 9,848 are respected and have concluded with a proposal for a decree by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who has delegated these rights to the Vice President, for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. 895 applications have been refused. The difference up to the number 16 515 are files for which additional information and additional documents are required. As to your specific question: what are the motives of these individuals to apply for Bulgarian citizenship, it is clear that you yourself said that this is a link between the person and a state that we are talking about very personal motives. The numbers, as I shared with you, I think it can be concluded that in the column of the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by origin, most of them are from countries where there is a cluster of Bulgarian community: Macedonia, Serbia, Ukraine, Moldova, Russia. That's no surprise. In your statement to the question, in its argumentation, you shared that one part of them, unfortunately not small, receiving Bulgarian citizenship, does not remain, does not reside in Bulgaria, but we have no reason and requirements, in view of our current legislation, a person who has acquired Bulgarian citizenship, to live in Bulgaria, there is no way to do so because we have many of our compatriots, Bulgarian citizens who live permanently outside the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, what impresses me from your response and the data presented is precisely that we are an attractive center more for Bulgarians who live outside the European Union and in poorly developed economic countries. There are enough Bulgarians abroad and in Turkey, but somehow there is a different matter with them. I would like to hear the vision of the Ministry of Justice for the next five or ten years on the implementation of policies and such policies to promote the lives of these Bulgarians in Bulgaria, their work in Bulgaria, the payment of taxes in Bulgaria, the birth of children and their upbringing in Bulgaria, because this would solve both economic and social and demographic problems that we are trying to solve at the moment, through the inclusion of these Bulgarians. So, as it is right now, not having a clear vision, not knowing what we want, and that's why we get something we don't like. I would also draw your attention to another fact, namely, after the exit of the Kingdom of Great Britain, the so-called Brexit, from the European Union, strangely why, in fact, it is not strange to me, but there is not a single application for Bulgarian citizenship by a citizen of Great Britain. I think it is our policy and the policy of the government that should be directed and encourage such citizens who would live in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u176	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Dear Minister, please come in and express your attitude to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Baychev, honourable MPs, for attracting Bulgarian citizens for the purpose of permanent establishment in Bulgaria it is clear that a wide range of measures and policies are needed, which are conducted in general by all state institutions in the country. Only the Ministry of Justice does not have the competence to develop this complex set of policies to make attractive, as you said, and citizens after Brexit of Great Britain wish to become Bulgarian citizens. I think that the very fact of the considerable amount of applications and applications for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in itself speaks about that Bulgaria as a country is attractive, whether they are our compatriots, who for various reasons live outside the borders of the state, or citizens of general naturalization who want according to the order of investment, special merit and so on to become Bulgarian citizens. Of course, the Ministry's efforts are to improve the procedure, to speed up the administrative burden. We have made significant changes to Regulation No 1, this is the operational regulation we are working with. There's a project underway. Yesterday was the time for submitting the documents to the procurement to improve and the automated system itself, to ease the access of the citizens, to keep from seeing those queues with which you started your arguments to the question that I see every morning. We've doubled the teams conducting interviews. Our goal is to be ready to conduct the interview on the day the application is submitted, not to carry out the interview as it was, unfortunately, after one year, when the information automated system when entering your number sets an automatic date, I say again, with distance not a few months ahead. This is all part of the Ministry's attention. Our problems are clear and we work to overcome them and I am convinced that those who wish to have Bulgarian citizenship and meet the legal requirements for this will be welcome for citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-01.u178	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That concludes today's program. We've run out of questions for the ministers. We're done with the weekly program. The next regular meeting is on 6 June 2018, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
