ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'll read you a message: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised: 1. The passage through the territorial sea and the non-military stay in the inland waters for the period from 10 February 2018 to 14 February 2018 and a visit to the port of Varna for the period from 10 February 2018 to 13 February 2018 for ships belonging to the Second Permanent Marine Group of NATO from the UK Navy, the Republic of Turkey and Romania. 2. The passage through the territorial sea and the non-military stay in the inland waters and the visit of the port of Burgas for the period from 9 February 2018 to 12 February 2018 for ships of the composition of the Second Permanent Maritime Armistice Group of NATO from the UK Navy, the Republic of Turkey and Romania. The visits of the ships to the city of Varna and the city of Bourgas are in connection with the implementation of the established timetable of the groups. Between 13 February and 14 February 2018, a training with forces and funds from the members of the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria is envisaged. The notification was received on 23 January 2018. No 803 09-3 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE LAW AND HIS Related RIGHTS. Christian Mitev and a group of MPs were brought in on 13 December 2017. Who will introduce us to the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs? Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to shorten the period of three days to submit a proposal between the first and second reading of the Railway Transport Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please vote on the procedure so made to reduce the period between first and second readings. Vote 154 MPs: for 145, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. One more procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I would also like to make a procedure for extending the deadline for making proposals to three weeks between the first and second reading of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Please vote on the procedure so made to extend the deadline. Vote 155 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please come in for the report, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u6	Madam President, first of all, I'm asking for a procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u7	Please vote on the procedure for admission. Vote 156 MPs: 155 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u8	My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At its meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Mr. Rumen Dimitrov Deputy Minister, Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Authors and Related Rights and Mrs. Katerina Pashova, State Expert at the Directorate of Authors and Associated Rights (Authorian Law and Related Rights) and by the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators: Ms. Anna Tanova-Atanasova Executive Director and Mr. Ivaylo Burkov Executive Director; Mr. Yasen Kosev Chairman of the Management Board, Ms. Mariana Andreeva Jurist, Ms. Kristina Stoyanova and Mrs. Veronica Chaneva, Public Relations; Mr. Ivan Dimitrov Executive Director, Mr. Yassen Kosev, Chairman of the Management Board, Ms. Mariana Andreeva On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights in musical works for use online in the internal market. He noted that it lays down specific conditions for entities carrying out collective management of rights, specifying the rights of holders of copyright and related rights, membership rights in organisations, requirements for the content of the statutes, powers of the General Assembly, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The proposed Law covers the management of revenue from collective management of rights, the principles for the allocation of collected remuneration and deductions for the activities of organisations, and provisions for the resolution of disputes arising through mediation are also laid down. Mr. Kirilov added that collective management of rights will be possible in conjunction with collective management organisations and independent management companies that received registration in the Ministry of Culture. The proposed provisions contain rules on the fixing of tariffs and lay down in detail the powers of the Minister of Culture with regard to the registration of organisations and collective management companies as well as the exercise of control over their activities. With the adoption of the Bill, development of the copyright market and related rights is expected, improvement of the competitive environment and protection of authors' rights. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the deadline for introducing the requirements of the Directive by the Member States of the European Union expired on 10 April 2016 and currently the Court of Justice of the European Union has been called upon for infringement on grounds of failure to comply with that obligation. Opinions have been received under the Bill by the European Agency for the Protection of Executive, Producer and Copyright (EAZIPA), Profon (Profon), "Musicator", "Filmautor" and "Artistautor," as well as the National Association of Cable Operators "Club 2000." Mr. Rumen Dimitrov noted that the Law seeks a balance between the interests of the right holders and their collective management organisations, on the one hand, and the users of copyright and related rights objects and their organisations, on the other. The Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators and the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators (Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communications Operators) expressed their support to the Bill and pointed out that the bill is the result of the continued work of the working group at the Ministry of Culture and largely reflects all positions and opinions. They expressed a positive assessment of the possibility of initiating a change in tariffs provided for in the Bill. From associations "Profon" and "Musicautor" pointed out that the main task of the bill is to provide the rights owners with an opportunity to receive fair remuneration. They pointed out the need to refine the texts relating to the possibility of changing tariffs. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yavor Notev, Christian Mitev and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Mitev expressed their support for the Bill and noted that importers support the personal exercise of copyright and their organizations. They focused on the need to create a competitive environment to protect the interests of artists and motivate them to create a creative product. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) they support the Bill in principle and added that all interests concerned in the Bill are equally legitimate. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. A report from the Committee on Culture and Media follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u10	Thank you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Culture and Media for the First Voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 25 January 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act was reviewed, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. In the meeting took part: from the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov Deputy Minister, Vesela Shtereva Secretary of State, Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Autoristian Law and His Related Rights, Katherine Pashova State Expert in the Directorate of Author Law and His Related Rights. From the Bulgarian National Television: Konstantin Kamenarov General Director, Zina Trifonova Member of the Management Board of BNT, Kremena Kadieva Director of Legal Directorate; from the Bulgarian National Radio: Alexander Velev General Director, and a team of National Radio; from the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators (ABRO): Anna Tanova Executive Director, Ivaylo Burkov Legal Advisor, and Mr. Yovchev. The meeting was attended by representatives of: Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators (BACKO), Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers, On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev. The aim of the bill is to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights in works for use online of musical works in the internal market, called the Directive. The directive aims to establish a legal framework for collective management of copyrights with which to implement better management, greater transparency and accountability in practice; to encourage and facilitate collective management organisations to obtain a multi-terrential licence concerning authors' rights. The deadline for transposition of the Directive into the internal legislation of the Member States of the European Union shall be no later than 10 April 2016, which is not implemented by Bulgaria and the European Commission has therefore initiated an infringement procedure on which a decision has been taken to refer the Court of Justice of the European Union to a failure to fulfil that obligation. The draft regulation regulates the rules of the directive to be set out in a new share of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The bill governs relations relating to collective management of rights in the use of works and other objects of protection and the activities of collective management organisations and independent management companies. The requirements for obtaining multi-terrential authorisation for the use of musical works online shall also be laid down. In addition to collective management of rights, independent management companies shall also be introduced as a collective management entity in addition to collective management organisations. The Bill establishes rules concerning transparency and accountability requirements for the activities of collective management entities and rules on the fixing of tariffs. The powers of the Minister of Culture in carrying out control of the collective management activity relating to the registration of organisations and companies and control of their activities shall be regulated. The text of the Bill provides for a mediation procedure for dispute resolution, which is conducted under the Law on Mediation. Opinions have been received under the Bill from: European Agency for the Protection of Executive, Producer and Copyright, "Musicautor", "Profon", "Filmautor" and "Artistautor", National Association of Cable Operators "Club 2000" and the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators, International Federation of Recording Industry, the Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers "Guildia Artists," REPRO BG and the Union of Bulgarian Composers. Mr. Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture, expressed his opinion that the Ministry of Culture supports the bill. People's representative Chavdar Velinov expressed support for the bill, stressing that proposals for changes will be made between the first and second votes. Participation in the discussion took place: Alexander Velev, Director General of BNR, Anna Tanova, ABRO, Zdravka Sirakova, EAZIPA, Ivan Dimitrov Most of them expressed support for the bill and willingness to participate in a working group between the first and second votes where they will present their proposals. Mr. Mehti Melikov answered questions. Following the vote by the People's Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 17 votes in favour, they proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It will be presented by the President of the Commission, Mr Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will try expressively, such as Mr. Budinov, to read the opinion. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 17 January 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act submitted by Hristian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Toma Bikov, the National Representative and importer of the Bill, and Mr. Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Copyright and Related Rights, Mrs. Katerina Pashova, State Expert at the Directorate of Copyright and Related Rights and Mrs. Vesela Sterev, Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. The draft law aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights in musical works for use online on the internal market. It is important to note that the deadline for introducing the requirements in national law was 10 April 2016. Due to failure to comply with this obligation, the European Commission has initiated a infringement procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria, No 2016/0260, on which a decision was taken on 7 December 2017 to refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union and a financial penalty of EUR 19 121,60 per day will be requested. I'm missing part of the point because we're not a major committee. I keep going: According to the reasons of the importers, Directive 2014/26/EU has 3 main points: a more detailed and detailed regulation of the activities of collective management organisations, in particular with regard to the transparency of their actions before members and before society; the creation of a special mechanism governing the respect of copyright in the case of multi-dimensional use of musical works on the Internet; the introduction into the system of collective management of copyrights and related rights of new entities. According to a preliminary assessment of the impact of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, no expenditure from the state budget is foreseen. In respect of the exercise of copyrights, benefits are expected for right holders and market development, including improving the competitive environment and protecting authors. It should be borne in mind that on 23 December 2017 the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds received an opinion from the European Agency for the Protection of Executive, Producer and Copyright. According to the Agency, the proposed Amendment and Supplement Bill does not remove the main and most serious problems in the Copyright and Related Rights Act which are contrary to Directive 2014/26/EU, as well as a number of other previous acts of international and European law. In the subsequent discussion on the Bill, the President of the Commission noted that the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined these types of bills in terms of whether they correctly transposed the relevant European legislation. He stressed that he does not encourage the introduction of such bills by MPs because they lack a table of compliance with the directives they introduce, and this makes it difficult to prepare KEVKEF's opinions. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr. Rumen Dimitrov clarified that the project was developed by the Ministry of Culture, but was introduced through MPs to shorten the time for its adoption in order to avoid the imposition of financial sanctions by the European Commission. According to the representatives of "Musicautor", "Profon" and the Association of Bulgarian Radio Television Operators not only lacks a table of compliance but also has not been held a public discussion on the bill. The three organisations, despite their reservations, have generally supported the proposed changes. Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Executive Director of the Musician, supported the decision to establish a working group of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to examine in detail all arguments between first and second readings. The Deputy Minister of Culture assured the members of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds that within the next 20 days the necessary efforts will be made to take into account all points of view. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds addressed the Ministry of Culture with a request to send the table of compliance of the draft and the relevant directive and appealed to the representatives of the "Musicautor", "Profon" and the Association of Bulgarian Radio Television Operators to present their opinions on the changes that the Commission Working Group on Legal Affairs will propose. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes abstentioned by the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Hristian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Do the importers wish to present the bill? Mr. Mitev, you are welcome to present the Bill and the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will try to be as brief as possible in view of the fact that the reports of the three committees that you have heard so far have largely presented the main points of the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act was drawn up in order to introduce a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights to musical works for use online on the internal market. The Member States of the European Union were obliged to reflect this directive in their domestic legislation by 10 April 2016 at the latest, by failing to comply with this obligation, the European Commission has initiated an infringement procedure against our country on 7 December 2017, in which a decision to refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union was taken on 7 December 2017, and a financial penalty of EUR 19 121,60 per day would be requested, which is not a small amount. If the State is asked to pay from the moment when the directive was to be introduced into domestic legislation, a period of almost two years is received, which is also the main motive, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, for the importers of this bill to bring it to the National Assembly in order to avoid the imposition of this sanction. The directive in question contains a completely new and very detailed regulation of the requirements for the functioning of collective management organisations, as well as the introduction of a new collective management entity, the independent management companies. It is also a completely new regulation regarding the multi-terrential licensing of rights to musical works for online use in the internal market. Three are the main points to be introduced by this directive. Firstly, much more detailed and detailed regulation of the activities of collective management organisations, particularly as regards the transparency of their actions before the members of those organisations and before society. Secondly, the creation of a special mechanism governing the respect of copyright in the case of multi-terrential use of musical works on the Internet. The directive proposes specific rules for collective management organisations that would express their willingness and willingness to manage copyrights on musical works offered on the Internet. The third focus of the directive is the introduction into the system of collective management of copyrights and related rights of a new category of entities, referred to in the Bill of Laws............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A definition of these independent companies is also given, which are commercial companies which are entitled under a contract for the award of rights by holders of rights to manage their rights, as the sole and main purpose of these companies is to represent the holders of rights, to pay them the remuneration agreed between the organisations and the legal agents for the use of the works of the authors who created them. The final provisions of the Bill provide that the status of the collective management organisations in force be maintained and, on the one hand, their normal functioning will remain and will not come to turmoil. On the other hand, it is provided for a six-month transitional period for registered organisations to be able to translate their statutes in accordance with the requirements of the Law and for commercial companies to be authors to be able to submit applications for registration and to be registered in the Ministry of Culture respectively, creating a special register with two sections in it, respectively for collective management organisations and independent trading companies for management of rights. The aim of this draft and the directive as a whole is to reduce to the maximum extent the existing dominant position of collective management organisations by introducing so-called trading companies for the management of rights and of having a clearer and more transparent copyright market and, respectively, clearer and more transparent management of rights by collective management organisations and by the new entity, the independent trading companies for the management of rights. I call on you to support this bill at first reading. Of course, between first and second readings, we stated it as importers in all the committees, we will take into account all the opinions and opinions that were delivered by the stakeholders in the discussion in the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The draft amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act has been drawn up for the purpose of transposing Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights in musical works for online use of the internal market. It is explicitly stated that the deadline for the implementation of the Directive is 10 April 2016. For the failure to comply with this obligation, the European Commission has initiated a procedure against our country in which a penalty of EUR 19 121 per day has been requested by a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to point out that if the Bill is adopted in its current form, it will create an unacceptable legal monopoly by the Constitution of Bulgaria in the private benefit of the currently registered collective management organisations, as only they will be able to represent the authors and collect the remuneration for them. Officially, new collective management organisations and independent management companies will be able to be established, but in order for them to exist, they will have to conclude an agreement with those in force as they themselves are not entitled to collect remuneration from users for their members. Moreover, there are prerequisites for further criminal procedures against Bulgaria. There is a direct contradiction with art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning rules of competition in the European Union. This allows for a legal monopoly of the already registered collective management organisations. By means of this Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the possibility of breach of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is legally established. With regard to the contradiction found, I would like to express and defend my opinion and concern about the adverse consequences for Bulgaria, which could arise to responsible institutions and factors that could affect the development of the process. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The content of the Public Register of persons who received registration under art. 94d shall be determined. 94b, which is supported by the Minister of Culture. In para. 4 t. 8 is defined in the Register to enter the holders of rights, but there is no requirement to have an updated list of the titles of their works, the period, the territory and other conditions for which those rights have been surrendered. These are essential criteria in the case of a future dispute, because thanks to them it will be specified whether the relevant infringement is present and whether the composition of art. Ninety-four years. There is no single public register showing how each user who has entered into a contract with collective management organisations or with an independent management company has the right to access licensed software and can, in real time, be informed of the amount of remuneration to each of the carriers. Such a register will avoid any suspicion of abuse of rights by collective management organisations or independent management companies. The current practice we have shows that very often collective management organisations do not maintain or neglect their obligation to update the list of authors and works they represent. In such a set-up, it is possible that an organisation, knowingly or not, collects revenue from the management of rights that are not granted to it. This clarification is important in order to eliminate any abuse of the volume of rights represented. I also believe that a principle should also be introduced not to require permission to distribute works, radio or television programmes for which the rightholder has granted free access to consumers. In the part determining the amount of fees collected, art. 94p, a procedure for the preparation and acceptance of tariffs shall be laid down for the amounts of remuneration collected by a collective management organisation involving a representative organisation, users for each type and volume of works and other objects of protection used. It is essential that these tariffs be proportionate to revenue equal to all, without discounts and reductions. In the situation of preserving the monopoly of existing collective management organisations, it is imperative that there is also a state body that is a corrective between rights management organisations and users. Moreover, according to the annual accounts of collective management organisations in recent years, most of their revenue comes from radio and television undertakings. The motivation of importers that these are private civil relations that do not need state regulation is not valid. The proposed method of mediation is recognised outside the jurisdiction of disputes between the parties, but we believe that it is not appropriate as the only way to determine the rates of collective management organisations, given the specifics of the problem and the holes in our legislation. In accordance with art. 17, para. 1 of the Mediation Act, the agreement reached binds only the parties to the dispute and cannot oppose persons who have not participated in the procedure. This means, in practice, that the agreement reached on a tariff through mediation will be mandatory only for participants in the procedure, but not for everyone else. There is no physical possibility for all users to participate in the procedure. Even if a representative organisation or several are involved, they also do not cover all users. The rate adopted by mediation will not be mandatory for them. Another problem is that the question of what tariff will be applied when the mediation procedure fails and for what period is not clarified. A failure is also a lack of judicial review in terms of fixing tariffs. The proposal proposed by the Minister of Culture not to interfere in determining the amount of remuneration collected by collective management organisations and independent management companies, where copyrights are not regulated by a radio and television organisation, is not good. A new, refined paragraph must therefore be included by which the Minister of Culture or a person authorised by him may take part in this case. Another important requirement for tariffs relates to the implementation and conclusion of the contracts with users. Collective management organisations must give to users with rights to use works or other objects of protection with contracts equal and equal to all non-discriminatory conditions in order to have real market competition between copyright holders. The next important part of the right-holder relationship is that collective management organisations, as well as independent management companies and users, are associated with brightening the obligation of copyright remuneration by requiring users under art. Art. 21 and art. 91 of the Copyright and Related Rights Act to form part of the copyright in the price of the invoice to the end user or subscriber respectively. In this form, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Copyright Act will not decide to clear the problems with copyright and its fixed-term rights and will continue the practice of resolving them in courtrooms instead of being regulated by the Law. We therefore believe that we must clear up the ambiguities by proposing changes between first and second readings of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Any other speeches on the draft discussion? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. They voted 147 MPs: 116, none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, this was 14 item on our agenda. Parliamentary control is pending, it will begin at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u18	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First, let me inform you that there are no new requests for the period from 19 January to 25 January 2018. We've got written answers to serve, there's a lot of them. I'll read them. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who have written answers to receive them. Written response from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on ten questions from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Tanner Mehmed Ali; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Adlen Shevked and Ahmed Ahmedov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov. Communication on a debate on asking: Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev is prevented from participating in the parliamentary control meeting today - January 26th because of a commitment related to the presentation in the European Parliament of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the field of health. According to the provision of art. 105, para. A sentence 2 third of the Rules requires that the debate on questions be held in the presence of the minister concerned. The absence of Minister Ananiev requires the setting of a new deadline for holding a debate on asking No 754-05-57, set by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev, on a Strategy for the Conservation and Development of Municipal Hospitals. Due to the above, the President of the National Assembly reschedules the debate on that question for the next parliamentary control meeting. We move on to parliamentary control issues. A question from MP Sevim Ali to Minister Neno Dimov. It is about partially built sewage sewers in the villages of Muglen and Karageorgievo, Aitos municipality, Burgas district. I'd like you to come in and present the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! During meetings with the residents of the villages of Muglen and Karageorgievo, Aytos Municipality, the questions about the partially built sewerage in them were repeatedly raised and what the state will do in your person, Mr. Minister, for their completion. For the village of Muglen, specifically: in 2008 in the village of Muglen, Aytos Municipality, through the POSOS (Support for management of environmental protection activities) at the Ministry of Environment and Water began the construction of a waste water sewerage worth 1 million. Eight hundred and thirty-eight thousand. BGN and in 2009 began construction of the home deviations of 482 thousand. lv. In 2009, construction contracts were unilaterally terminated by the Ministry of Environment and Water, remaining for construction activities for 878 thousand. lv. and the restoration of street flooring. For the village of Karageorgievo: in 2007 in the village of Karageorgievo via PUDOS to the Ministry of Environment and Water began the construction of waste water sewerage worth 1 million. 492,000. lv. In 2009, the construction of household deviations of 404 thousand began. lv. In 2009, construction contracts were unilaterally terminated by the Ministry of Environment and Water and remained for construction activities worth 519 thousand. lv. The two villages of Muglen and Karageorgievo, in the municipality of Aytos, are the largest settlements, with the constant number of people living in the two settlements being more than 3,000 people. In both villages there are primary schools and full - time kindergartens, a large number of young families live. In these settlements there is life, unlike many other small settlements in our country. Due to the lack of completion of construction works, the condition of street flooring is extremely poor. In many places there is a fall of the street shafts, there are formed big holes, even pits, from the dug and unbuilt rural streets. Since 2009, to this day, despite the efforts of the management of the municipality and the villages, the construction of the sewers and the household deviations has not been renewed. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: what action does the state intend to take and what time, in your person, in 2018. The year of the Bulgarian European Presidency to complete the construction of partially built sewers in the villages of Muglen and Karageorgievo in the municipality of Aitos? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, for the realization of the Project "Canalization" village of Muglen. By Decision of the Management Board of the PUDO for the period 2007-2009, grants of 2 million were granted. 130,000. BGN 948. A total of five contracts for financing the project were concluded between the PDOOS and the Aytos Municipality. Three of the contracts were concluded after the act and payment of the construction works included in the municipality, amounting to a total of 1 million. Twenty-eight thousand. BGN 308. And 30 cc's. Two of the contracts were terminated by Decision of the Governing Council of 26 August 2009 due to reduced revenue and limited financial resources. For the realization of the project "Canalization" village of Karageorgievo, a grant amount of 1 million has been granted by Decision of the Management Board of the PPOOS for the period 2007-2009. 896 thousand. BGN 286. A total of five contracts for financing the project were concluded between the PDOOS and the Aytos Municipality. Three of the contracts also ended with the actuarial and payment of the construction and construction works included at a total value of 950 thousand. lv. Two of the contracts were terminated by Decision of the Governing Council of 26 August 2009 due to a reduction in revenue and a limited financial resource. At present, the projects of Aytos Municipality for sewerage in the village of Muglen and Karageorgievo do not fall within the scope of the priorities for the operation of the enterprise for environmental protection in the sector of Aytos. 127 of the Water Act. According to the latest data we have, Muglen village has 1322 inhabitants and Karageorgievo village with 1402 inhabitants, and we have no information from the municipality about construction of waste water treatment plants. No applications from the Aytos Municipality have been received at the PPOOS at the present time with a request to finance the projects. Each of the settlements has less than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants. For this type of settlements, we recommend finding other sources for funding, such as the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 "at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which funds settlements with less than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, these are the signatures of hundreds of residents of the two settlements of Muglen and Karageorgievo, who urgently insist on taking measures in these two settlements to complete the sewerage in Muglen and Karageorgievo and to restore the street floors, and this, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, is the current state of the streets in the village of Muglen, today's current state of the streets in the village of Muglen in the 21st century, in European Bulgaria. [[Shows photos.]] I claim that I know very well the residents of the two settlements, and what I can say is that these are worthy, hardworking Bulgarian citizens who have developed a sense of responsibility towards their homeland and expect in your face by the state, the state to approach with the same responsibility and support the municipality budget, as the amount needed to complete both sewerage and street flooring is not strengthened for the municipality budget. We in the parliamentary group of the DPS have always supported policies that are in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens, including the construction of highways and the renovation of large blocks in city centers, but in no case do we support that the state be a mother to one, stepmother to another, so we insist on fulfilling the demands of the residents of these two settlements, to be completed with the construction of sewers and the restoration of street floors. [[The speaker transmits a folder of documents to Minister Neno Dimov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ali. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, I have no doubt about the merits and hard work of any citizens in Bulgaria, including those two villages we are talking about. The point is, we have a certain resource. This resource is not enough. But there is distribution, the focus is when we talk about treatment plants, about over 10,000 equivalents of residents, because there will be the greatest effect there. Naturally, then they come from 2 to 10 and for those who are below 2,000 equivalents, there is currently another measure that is available. Of course, you have reason to ask for support of the municipal budget, but this is in another procedure, which passed at the end of last year in the budget procedure. It is no accident that I concluded with the recommendation to see what other funding options are, because from this point of view, if we all focus on the place from which we can really get funding, we will probably be able to ease our work and faster implement the projects, which are undoubtedly deserved by Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Dimov is from the MPs Rumen Georgiev, Hristo Prodanov, Dimitar Danchev, Nikolay Tsonkov and is about the Management Plan of the Nature Park. Here you are to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! We as MPs from BSP in Sofia in recent months during our foster one of the questions, and I would say every second question is related to the development and access to the Nature Park. People have the feeling that the access and development of Vitosha Mountain is deliberately stopped at the expense of some other resorts. In accordance with art. 7 of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, the structure and management of the natural park "Vitosha" is related to the plan for management of the park. In this regard, our question is: what is the readiness to develop, update and adopt the management plan of the Nature Park. We remember that in an interview you said that you remember with nostalgia how you skied on Vitosha. That is true, but also in relation to air cleanliness in recent months is unacceptable, I would say that even an element of national security, the plan of Vitosha Nature Park is not to be adopted. If you can tell what deadlines the plan will be adopted, because the management of the state, of Sofia Municipality is from GERB and there are no obstacles in our view the plan to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, honourable gentlemen Georgiev, Prodanov, Danchev and Tsonkov! First of all, I'd like to start by saying that I actually remember with nostalgia the Vetrovala I learned exactly 50 years ago. I felt a little uncomfortable seeing how many years have passed since then. Then there was Aleko and all the facilities that were there. I don't remember with nostalgia for the air that was breathing at the time because, if we have to compare it to Sofia's air today, it is much cleaner now, although it still does not meet the criteria that we need to achieve, and, naturally, we need to make efforts in this direction. Specifically, what stage and how is the development of the management plan? I'll give you the information and allow myself two more words after that. In October 2015, the Directorate of Natural Park Vitosha has provided the Ministry of Environment and Waters with an update of the Management Plan of the Natural Park (Vitosha) for the period 2015 - 2024, including the development of geo-based data and maps, and the development of a geographical information system. In February 2016, the draft plan was returned for revision. In March 2016, Vitosha Nature Park has submitted to the Ministry the revised draft plan, which has also been returned for corrections. The last version of the management plan was submitted on 13 June 2016. At the end of January 2017 the Directorate of Natural Park Vitosha 10, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for assessing the compatibility of plans, programmes, projects, investment proposals with subject matter and objectives for conservation of protected areas and notification under art. 8, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental assessment of plans and programmes. In February 2017 we inform the Directorate of the Vitosha Nature Park about the need to provide a request for assessment of the need to carry out an environmental assessment under art. 8a of the Environmental Assessment Ordinance. The request was submitted in August 2017. In December 2017, the Ministry of Environment and Waters requested the Directorate of Natural Park Vitosha to provide additional information within which a period of two months has been set for its provision. We expect this information to be provided by mid-February in order to continue the process of assessing the need to carry out an environmental assessment of the Nature Park. That's the chronology. Since you asked me when exactly can be accepted, to some extent this is difficult to answer, because there is a potential opportunity after assessing whether an environmental assessment is necessary, to have a judicial appeal and there we are already entering a procedure that is beyond my competence, especially when we are talking about deadlines. In parallel, we have also considered a meeting with the Mayor of Sofia Municipality and Minister Kralev the possibility that if we enter this procedure, Vitosha's current plan will be amended so that the mountain can be returned to the Sofians again. In my opinion, we have two options, and we will see which of the two will be the fastest possible, as it is indeed a process that should not be delayed any longer in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Minister! Mr. Georgiev, you're asking the question again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Yes, this is the chronology that you have read, but we want to hear your personal opinion on whether such an environmental assessment should be carried out. Next, people ask why the lift doesn't work, whether the Law on Forests needs to be changed, so that new lifts can be made, ski lifts. In this regard, answer your personal assessment and opinion whether you need an environmental assessment. Again, I repeat that the management of both Sofia Municipality and the Council of Ministers is of the government of GERB. So if you sit down and think quickly and resolve this question, what you said that Mount Vitosha should return to the Sofiians will be a fact. But if we are stalling again over time and over the years, there is no way this will appeal to the Sofians and we are categorical. I want to say that our political position, the BSP, is for the development of tourism in compliance with all environmental legal norms. But we will not allow a delay from an administrative point of view, and we will therefore definitely monitor this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u32	Thanks for the line, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Georgiev! I can't express my own opinion. I am obliged as Minister to obey the law, and that is exactly what I will do. From this point of view, I say again: the time limits depend largely on whether this plan, once it is defined, should or should not have an environmental assessment, will be contested or not. Our wish is that after we receive the necessary information from Vitosha Nature Park, we should proceed as soon as possible. Therefore, I say that we are also discussing the other possibility that the existing plan should be amended because this existing plan from the time it was made effectively blocks any development not only on Vitosha, in fact the combination of what is adopted in the Forest Act and what is done in the management plans stops the development of winter tourism in Bulgaria at all. This is a very difficult obstacle that has been delaying for decades perhaps, and perhaps more, this development and needs to be overcome. I think that we are going very clearly in this direction and the aim to bring Vitosha back to the Sofians in the shortest possible time is clearly set. Thank you for the support that the MPs from the BSP express in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u34	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question for Minister Dimov. The next question is to Mr. Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He is one of the MPs Pencho Milkov, Georgi Stoilov and Krum Zarkov on the status of the town of Ruse as the center of the North Central Region. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One question, but an important issue, Mr President, because on 17 January this year the Russian daily "Utro" published an article on its first page entitled "Turnovo shifts Ruse as a center of the North Central Region"?.................................................................................. Therefore, Minister, our question to you is clear: is such a change being discussed and envisaged? We hope that today you will clearly and categorically reassure the Russian citizens on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, to appease the Russian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I would not be surprised if one morning I woke up and another regional daily wrote that Kaspichan replaced Varna as the center of the Northeastern region. But that's another topic. To reassure you and the Russian citizens, I will tell what politics are and what may be due to the concerns of the local public caused by media publications. At the end of 2017, actions were initiated in the Ministry in relation to a change in the number and territorial scope of the six development areas. Taking this step is required by the need for more sustainable development areas in time from level 2 in terms of the number of population in them. At present, one "North-West Region' does not meet the statistics and minimum population requirements laid down in the EUROSTAT requirements, i.e. at least 800 thousand people. The northern central region with Ruse center is with only 5 thousand people, according to data from 2017, above this minimum number of 805 thousand people. To change the scope, we will take steps. I will explain what they will be in this direction and what our actions will be. This aims to create strong, long-term viable level 2 areas with strong, accessible and capable centres. Thirdly, the change is determined by the need to build an effective territorial basis on which to base the development and implementation of strategic regional development documents and the programmes that will be co-financed by the European funds after 2020. As at present, programming is stepping on the country's zoning under the Regional Development Act. In this regard, an interdepartmental working group was established in MRDPB with the task of proposing and considering options for a new territorial scope of the level 2 regions. Representatives of Directorates from the Council of Ministers, MRRB, the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria, leading in the ministries the responsibilities for managing the European Structural Investment Funds, the National Statistical Institute, BAS, the National Association of Municipalities, the academic community took part in the working group. The group's work was completed in December 2017 with a consensus setting of at least three options for new zoning of the country. This is the first step. In January 2018, the Council of Ministers examined and approved a report in which we were given a mandate to propose for a broad public discussion these three options defined by the working group, which are neither extreme nor limited to three. By the end of March, we plan their presentation and discussion within the Regional Policy Council to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, regional councils for the development of the six level 2 regions, as well as a planned round table with the participation of non-governmental organisations, agencies, civil society organisations and academic community. I do not exclude, on the contrary, broad discussions and discussions in the committees, but especially in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government in the National Assembly. In conclusion, I inform you that there is currently no approved final version for a new territorial scope of the level 2 areas and the three options planned to be discussed publicly are not considered and do not contain proposals for designation of centres and names of the areas. This issue is to be resolved through the above-mentioned discussions and events, which we will organise from March onwards, as within the next three years we need to change mainly on objective criteria territorial composition such as municipalities and areas of level 2 planning and development areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, it is clear from your reply that actions are being carried out to change the scope of the areas and their centres, so the question of whether it is first formalised and initiated by a daily or not is extremely important. Appropriately yesterday the Municipal Council in Ruse issued a joint declaration, supported by all municipal councillors, in which you and all the state authorities should bear in mind that the municipal councilors and the entire community of Ruse are opposed to the change of our city as the centre of the administrative district. This has happened more than once in the past. The last attempt was sad and a cause for laughter in our city. We were part of Razgrad region. I hope that the discussions you are providing for will be widely promoted. At the moment, in everything you've said, there is no information about this in the city or in our community. I hope you will do your best to make sure that the local community, the local authorities and the local municipal council participate in these public discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, Mr. Zarkov! In no way would I allow myself to make you a note, but we really need to handle the terminology and the facts very accurately. We are not commenting on the administrative-terrorism device and a change in the administrative-terrorism device within the districts, but we are commenting on regional development, regional planning. In the first case, we are talking about the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria, we are currently talking about planning areas, a strategic unit, according to Eurostat for NUTS-2 regions. I have mentioned that we are not talking about and at the moment no discussions have been held, no change of the centres of the planning regions has been discussed, let alone commenting on a change of administrative boundaries, centres of districts and institutions which I am convinced that in the next 20 years in Bulgaria no one will initiate and no one will have the necessary objective prerequisites to start, I mention again: on the basis of objective criteria from Eurostat, mostly the number of population. Two of the regions, one currently according to the demographic forecasts, are not going to meet the minimum requirements after a year, and this would be extremely negative as a process if we did not launch these actions in order to ensure really quality planning and programming of the next programming period 2021 - 2027, which will lie on the new planning areas. By the way, I'll leave them available on the Ministry's website one too early. I say again: the working group itself initiated with representatives of the Presidency, representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences held several working meetings and initiated the possible discussion on these three options, which could be long-term, such as sustainability of the level 2 regions. Within the next year, if I have to be realistic, we will not reach consensus, and we will not take any real action on the adoption of one of these options, as public discussions and discussions will take place within 2018. I mentioned once in the Commission to the National Assembly, secondly, in regional councils, including the district development councils in Ruse, and in all other development areas. I will leave the options that have examined the working group and which are not approved by the Council of Ministers, as I mentioned, and at an operational meeting the Council of Ministers gave us a carte blanche to start with public discussions so that all future decisions are really made publicly, transparently, after the necessary public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u42	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes the questions to the Minister of Regional Development. The next question is from the MP Nikolay Tishev to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova on the illegal exploitation of a career in the quarter. "Banevo" city of Bourgas. Here you are, Mr. Tishev, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, for years the municipal company "Blago construction works" Ltd. of Burgas operates illegally without concession the career in the district of Burgas. "Banevo" city of Bourgas. In mid-December last year, residents of the neighborhood rose to protest against the stone quarry. People told Burgas national media that their homes were crumbling because despite the ban on extraction of inert materials, career work did not stop and the explosions continued. According to their information, there are days when up to 50 trucks of inert materials come out of the quarry. In front of the protesters and the media present, Mr. Apostolov, the company manager, stated the following: "We have no right to extract underground wealth, but this does not prevent us from tearing apart those who have already been acquired. The career will continue to function because at the moment there is no mining of the underground assets. Apostolov admits that the company does not have a signed contract for concession of the quarry. In this regard are my two questions: what actions will you take to stop the illegal activities of the quarry and thus protect the health and property of the residents in the district. "Banevo" city of Burgas? What sanctions will you impose on the municipal company for the illegal extraction of aggregates? Will you refer to the competent authorities if you have not already done so about the illegal state property order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, in the land of Tishev. The town of Bourgas is situated in the locality of underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on underground wealth. Building materials, volcanoes, suitable for crushed stone, for road bases, asphalt coatings and concrete. In this regard, it should be noted that the locality of Banevo was the subject of operation since 1961. Subsequently, over the years, depending on the current regulations, for the amounts of the underground assets received under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The company has the quality of a welded user of the locality of Banevo......................... of underground wealth, construction materials within the meaning of § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Underground wealth. In this capacity, the company has applied for a concession for mining by law, without a tender or competition under § 4b, para. 5 in relation to the 1.. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on concessions. By Decision No 820 of 29 December 2017, the Council of Ministers granted a concession for the extraction of underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Underground Treasures, namely construction materials, volcanoes from the field of Banevo, located in the land of Sq. "Banevo" city of Bourgas. According to T. 12.1. of the quoted Decision of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Energy is authorised to enter into a concession agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the concession contract will enter into force on 15 March 1999, i.e. the date of entry into force of the Law on Underground Treasures, and for the period from the entry into force of the concession contract until its conclusion the concession holder will owe a concession payment, together with the legal interest for lateness. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the decision of the Council of Ministers provides for mandatory conditions for the concession to be carried out, including all the opinions given by the competent institutions in relation to the guarantee of the life and health of the population in the square. "Banevo" city of Bourgas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u46	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u47	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! With amazement a few days ago, I learned that there is practically a solution for signing a concession. However, you did not answer the second question I asked you about these five years from 2012 to 2017, when there was virtually no contract. Now I understand it's going to be a reverse date. However, when there was no concession contract, will any sanctions be imposed on this company, because in this way you give a signal that anyone can exploit any career or other wealth of the Republic of Bulgaria without having any response from the state. Secondly, in relation to the decision of 29 December this year on the conclusion of a new concession, I will read you the following. In response from 1 November 2017, i.e. about two and a half months ago, to a question by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, you answer the following: It has submitted an application as early as 2012. A conciliation procedure has been carried out in accordance with art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. The Ministry of Health does not agree with the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers on granting a concession for mining of underground wealth, construction materials from the locality of Banevo, municipality of Burgas. The reasons for the negative opinion are that there are not enough facts and circumstances that in the realization of the investment intention in the housing environment there will be no harmfulness, resulting in creating a risk to the health of citizens. In view of the above, no concession has been granted at the moment for the extraction of underground wealth from the locality. How can the same career that hasn't moved 3 or 4 km away from the square? It is clear that the same quarry, at the same distance from the neighborhood, the same administration, again to the Ministry of Health, has clearly issued a positive opinion this time, given that there will hardly be a difference in the technology of extraction of inert materials. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Dear Minister Petkova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tishev, the questions you are asking, of course, have been the subject of discussions within the Ministry of Energy and all competent institutions that are relevant to the coordination procedure regarding the Law on Underground Treasures. As I also mentioned in my reply, this concession, this locality is practically managed, so to speak, by this company since 1961. It is no accident that the concession holder claims to conclude a concession contract by law. As for the opinion that the Ministry of Health has provided, what you have been quoting since November, we are also familiar, of course, with it. The Ministry of Health subsequently requested additional information, additional guarantees were provided and additional conditions were laid down that would find place in the concession contract as an obligation for the concessionaire. If they are not complied with, the concession holder reserves the right to terminate this contract. I assure you that all necessary actions and measures have been taken to ensure the health, life and tranquility of people living in the area. "Banevo." I assure you of that! The Ministry of Health has given its competent opinion, has set requirements which the concessionaire is obliged to comply with, and they will find a place in the contract to be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u50	Thank you, Minister Petkova. We move on to the next issue from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov on a contract for the project "Providing services for early childhood development" in the territory of Byala Municipality, Ruse District. You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! At a meeting with residents of the village of Polsko Kosovo, they asked a question about the reconstruction of a part of an existing building. The building is coyant, representing a retirement club, built of sheet and glass. We have also presented you a photo to the question. Repair activities were carried out in the right part of the building, with a separate part used for the quoted project. In the words of the villagers who are in the club every day, no activity has been carried out there and have not seen any activity. Our questions are: is the Ministry aware of the activities of the implemented project, what do they include? Have checks been carried out on the site by the competent institutions related to its normal functioning? What reports are presented by the persons designated as performers of the activities? What is the effectiveness and appropriateness of the project and the expenditure? What useful results have been achieved? Is there any sustainability of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, Dear Mr. Stoilov, from 22 June 2011 to 31 December 2015 Byala Municipality has implemented a project for children up to 7 years old and their families, funded by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the World Bank. In the village of Polsko Kosovo is renovated part of a building in which a retirement club is housed. The building is not massive, it is made of prefabricated metal structures, but it is accessible, one-storey and with good communication. There are two rooms and a bathroom. In order to ensure the sustainability of the revealed services of Byala Municipality from 15 July 2016 implemented a new project "Development of services for early childhood development" on the territory of Byala Municipality, Ruse District, funded by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." The agreed duration of the project activities is 27 months. The contract is worth 251 thousand. 872 BGN, of which 214 thousand. 91,20 leva. are funded by the European Union - that is 85% of the total value, and 37 thousand. £780.80. from the state budget, which represents 15% of the total value. Through the provided social services the municipality of Byala continues to provide support to early childhood children from 0 to 7 years old and to their families, to improve access to health care, parental skills formation, improving the family environment, raising the school readiness of children for inclusion in the educational system, as well as preventing children with disabilities from being accommodated in specialized institutions. In the village of Polsko Kosovo, there are 64 children and parents covered by the project and 301 children in total. The activities are mainly provided at the Centre for Early Intervention in the town of Byala. Mobile teams work on the ground in the homes of consumers, in kindergartens and in the premises provided for the project in the village of Dryanovets and the village of Polsko Kosovo. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has carried out three on-the-spot checks in the village of Polsko Kosovo. The first is on 11 July 2017, the next is on 11 October 2017 and 3 January 2018. In the first two checks, non-essential deficiencies were identified, recommendations were given and their implementation was followed. A follow-up check was carried out on 3 January 2018, establishing the activity and provision of the relevant services, conducting consultations with future and current parents, carrying out disease prevention activities for children up to the age of seven, individual group activities provided by kinesiatherapist, pedagogist, mediator, psychologist and logoped. The specifics of these social services and the specific target group do not suggest a daily presence of experts and the organisation of daily meetings and activities in the quoted room. Most of the activities were carried out in kindergarten "Rhodos" in the village of Polsko Kosovo. Consultations were held at the consumer's homes. There is documentary evidence, including photography, that the quoted room has been used for the purpose of the project. Subject to the agreed special conditions under the previously implemented project, Byala Municipality has not changed the purpose of the renovated and furnished premises in the village of Polsko Kosovo and has provided its use under the project, which is currently being implemented. It is found that there is insufficient awareness of the population of the village of Polsko Kosovo about the project implemented by the municipality of Byala and the specific activities carried out under it. In this regard, recommendations were made to the municipality following the verification on 3 January 2018 to raise the awareness of the local population about the objectives of the project, the activities implemented, the services provided and the results achieved. As regards two interim payment requests lodged by the municipality of Byala, detailed documentary checks have also been carried out on the reporting documents for the period from 15 July 2016 to 30 April 2017. BGN 637,13, the duration of the project is up to 15 October 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milkov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u55	Dear Minister, colleagues! You said in your reply that actions were taken to inform the population of the village of Polsko Kosovo. This sign. [[shows]] It was on the building on my first visit to the village in the summer of last year. Once it became clear that the MP had been in the village, the building was locked and no one used it, believe me, the village of Polsko Kosovo is small and the citizens are well informed about the activities that are being carried out there. The sign was removed from the building and when I visited it at the end of last year, this sign was gone. So if we're going to inform the citizens, first, let's get the sign back on the project. It says there's a quarter of a million spent. You should know that the Retired Club is in the same building, but it's not being renovated under the Project. The building is tinnished, pyantova and half of it from several squares, is sanitized and people do not understand. Thank you for your information, but I hope my question will trigger, if necessary, additional checks, and not just documentary ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mr. Minister, will you take a stand? No. The next question is also to Minister Biser Petkov of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, representative of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and on the implementation of the Operational Programme for Food and/or basic material support from the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u57	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is related to the implementation of the Operational Programme "Blessingness" i.e. the delivery of packages for extremely needy through the use of funds from the European funds. The Agency for Social Assistance is a managing authority and, in the new programming period, it manages and directs precisely the supply of these food packages, but the finding that should be made since 2014 is that it is systematically late with the delivery of food packages. For clarification only: for 2016, three of the agreed products have not been delivered yet, not even contracts have been concluded, but for two of the products the auctions have completely failed and this is for oil and mature beans. The conclusion, at least for me, is that these products will not be delivered for 2016. In 2017, which is the question for you, we are also witnessing a delay in the procurement. It was announced in November 2017. The question to you is: how do you predict in the course of the coming months to be realized or to finalise the order, to sign the contracts so that these packages are delivered in time? The second issue, which we are also interested in, is that there is considerable technical assistance under the Programme to fulfil the commitments of the Agency for Social Assistance. The question is: at the beginning of 2018 what are the funds used for this technical assistance? Because the idea is that it should be aimed precisely at supporting the implementation of the Programme and contribute to its implementation in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Operational Programme for Food and/or Major Material Assistance from the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived in Bulgaria, or as you have summarized "Blessingness" has been approved by the European Commission Implementing Decision of 5 December 2014. The total budget of the Operational Programme during the period 2014-2020 is 241 million. 173,000. BGN 758, BGN 24 The funds provide food support in the form of individual packages of products and in the form of a warm lunch for vulnerable groups of people living in poverty. The implementation of the Programme started phased out in the first quarter of 2015 and currently maintains an excellent rate of financial implementation, and the risks of loss of funds at this stage have been eliminated completely. The contractual funds as of January 22, 2018 are 94.42% of the general financial framework of the Operational Programme. They paid 41.53% of them and certified 31.06 percent. More than 9 thousand were distributed and distributed in 2017. 929 tonnes of first-need food for 316 thousand. 748 persons and families, which is about 49 thousand more needy than 2016 With the change in the Ordinance on the designation of the target groups under the Programme in the coming years, the number of persons supported will increase. The first package for 2017 contains ten food products worth 67 BGN. 19 cm. with VAT. In March 2018, a second tranche of seven products began to be distributed, with which the package in its entirety would reach 17 products for a total value of 102 BGN. 23 c. with VAT. This year, another 17 types of food are to be bought. For this purpose, as you have indicated, a contract with an estimated amount of 16 million was announced on 13 November 2017. 352 thousand. £784.50. with VAT, 23 offers are submitted for all 17 lots. At present, selection of the participants, examination and evaluation of the tenders submitted by a commission appointed by the contracting authority shall be carried out. The public procurement for the purchase of foodstuffs is carried out by the Agency for Social Assistance. The appeal of the administrative acts relating to the procurement, unfortunately, results in a delay in the distribution of certain types of products. Nevertheless, the Agency for Social Assistance manages to establish an organisation to ensure the annual distribution of food to the needy, which is also the stated objective of the Programme. In 2015 and 2016 23 complaints were filed by participants against decisions issued by the contracting authority to rank participants and appoint contractors. As a result of the two-instance appeal process 21 of the complaints lodged ended with a decision in favour of the contracting entity. At the same time, for the fourth year, a warm lunch has been provided for socially vulnerable citizens. Currently with funds from the Operational Programme 43 thousand. 944 users receive hot food in over 260 dining rooms. The activity is implemented in more than 200 municipalities in the country. The actual expenditure paid under the Operational Programme is 94 million. 749 thousand. BGN 185, of which 3 million 791 thousand. BGN 728. are used for technical assistance. These funds are spent mainly on activities related to increasing the capacity of both employees who have commitments under the Programme and of partner organizations - municipalities that implement contracts under it. They are also aimed at the material and technical and administrative provision of the structural units and employees involved in functions under the Programme, as well as at the overall process of management, administration and control of its implementation. Finally, I would like to assure you that the successful implementation of the Programme adds a significant contribution to the overall policy for combating poverty and supporting vulnerable people realized by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! With respect for the detailed answer, there are problems behind the common numbers, which must be felt by the Ministry's management in time to prevent this delay. What you said was delivered as products in 2017 and is about to 2018 is practically for 2016. The order and packages to be delivered, including 2018 In 2016, the budget of this measure was 48 million. lv. In these packages, there are some very exotic products that I find extremely doubtful about how canned cans are defined, which, with their minimum value and high price, lead to a substantial amount of the budget being absorbed. For 2016, these exotic products were 10% of the total budget. In 2017, the announced procurement, which is about 16 million, these exotic products are 18%. What and who decides which products will enter the packages that will be provided to the socially weak? Because, let me disagree with the fact that canned beef with I don't know what sauce is a priority over flour, oil, sugar, which, accordingly, has been said to have failed orders. That's one question: who defines the packages? The second question, which is also important for me to have your assessment: do you think that the administrative capacity of the Agency is sufficient to do its job despite the means it receives under technical assistance, given the final result resulting from the implementation of the Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! With regard to further questions asked, I would like to clarify that the failure to conclude contracts on two of the positions, namely mature beans and sunflower oil, is due to the refusal of the selected performers. Such an opportunity exists. They were selected performers, they were invited to sign a contract, but they refused to do so. So, in this case, the contracting authority, the Social Assistance Agency, cannot oblige them to conclude these contracts. With regard to the selection of these positions. These are essential goods and are made by the Agency for Social Assistance. With regard to the interest in the positions applied for in the new order, I have already mentioned in the reply that offers have been submitted in all positions, which is a prerequisite for ranking and corresponding designation of contractors in these positions, i.e. for the successful implementation of this initiated procedure. This is what I could answer the specific questions asked by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question again to Minister Biser Petkov of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the assessment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the two-day contracts for short seasonal agricultural work in 2017. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is related to what is the assessment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the conclusion and continuation of the policy of the conclusion of day-to-day employment contracts and short-term seasonal employment in the sector....................................................................................... When this amendment to the Law was adopted, it was considered that this should be a temporary measure in order to see how the system works, but it has become permanent since the past years, and it is assumed that there is sufficient expertise, sufficient accumulated analyses to enable the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to assess whether these contracts are necessary in agriculture and can therefore be continued, to be implemented in the industry in the way they are. In my question, I have, for example, a few specific issues relating precisely to the application of seasonal employment in the sector. There are two requirements. The first relates to the fact that employees in the sector of........................... must only be in plant farming, fruit, vegetables, pink color and lavender...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here on the lavender I put a question mark, because there hardly any manual labor is the lead. Secondly, they are only applicable to professions that do not require social qualifications, that is, manual work alone. The other very important thing is that during the implementation of this measure in terms of providing a workforce in agriculture in seasons where there are problems, respectively, many of the organisations that want to implement this policy face difficulties, and these difficulties are related, for example, to establishing a workplace that can be different in different lands or that the employment contract is not conducted for service. From this point of view on these issues, which stand for several years, I would like to hear your answer to this, is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy working, taking into account, whether it analyses the implementation of this measure and what measures will be taken if they are taken to optimize the activity of day-to-day employment contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! In 2017 the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour was awarded 204 thousand. 780 pieces of employment contracts under art. 114a of the Labour Code for short-term seasonal agricultural work for processing plantations and harvesting of fruits, vegetables, pink color and lavender. In comparison with 2016, the first time the provision operates year-round, an increase of the actual contracts used by 15 thousand is reported. 572 pieces. There has also increased the number of farmers who have taken advantage of the possibility of hiring workers through the so-called day-to-day contracts. Models were granted to 2004 farmers in 2017 at 1873 in 2016. The increase in the number of farmers, as well as the growth of the contracts used, is due almost entirely to producers who process smaller areas under 100 hectares. Statistics show that the effect of day-to-day employment contracts is definitely positive and leads to a lightening of the labour force in plant farming. The fact that many more checks carried out by the labour inspectorates in 2017 in economic activity plant farming, livestock and hunting and support activities with a focus on plant farming can also be considered as confirmation that fewer cases of work have been detected without a contract concluded and registered in the NRA. For illustration in 2016, the checks were 3910 pieces and the cases of work without contract 242 pieces. In 2017, in the course of the 5030 inspections, 204 cases of work without a contract were detected. It must be borne in mind that day-to-day employment contracts are only one of the options laid down in the Labour Code for the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts for certain work. Their advantage is that employees under this type of contract do not lose rights for social assistance and unemployment benefit, which allows employment to cover permanently unemployed, socially weak persons. In view of the great interest of employers in this type of contracts, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the Executive Agency, a Chief Labour Inspectorate is making efforts to alleviate the conditions for their implementation, including their administration. For this purpose, the specialized software that administers the day-to-day contracts service is upgraded. The funding of the information system is provided under the project "Optimization and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The system for online registration of day-to-day contracts started in February 2017 and allowed them to be made available over the internet without being linked to the working hours of the administration. The software also creates a number of reliefs and when completing or concluding this type of contract. The fact that they are used by a larger number of farmers processing small agricultural areas can be considered as indications that the software has made their administration accessible. There are many more models of day-to-day contracts provided since the beginning of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 when the software was not operating. In this year they were 5 thousand pieces, while for the same period the previous year were about 300 pieces. I believe that the increased number of employment contracts of this kind used and the decrease in the number of job cases found without an employment contract are indicative of the effectiveness of this measure in terms of reducing the grey sector in the industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! The main topic I wanted to put with this question is whether you believe that this activity or this opportunity should be optimised and changes should be made that lead to better application of day-to-day contracts. Because the past two or three years, in which we have gained experience, only by optimizing the software will not lead to solving some of the issues that have been asked. One hundred and fifteen thousand are employed, employed in the sector of Agriculture. You say that there are about 200,000 contracts, this represents 0.7% of the contracts or contracts employed in the sector, which is a small number, can brighten the gray sector, but this cannot be noticed, it cannot become even a little brighter against the background of what the actual situation is. Therefore, the business issues are the following, in which decisions are sought precisely through day-to-day contracts, without denying them: to resolve the work experience issue of those who are employed, with working hours, because working hours for some plant activities start from four in the morning to ten, but this is not full-time; with the place of work the place of work in the employment contract or in the seasonal contract may be defined in one place, but due to climate problems it will be realized in another populated place where we already have different directorates responsible for the implementation of these contracts. The risk of these contracts is not appreciated at all, and employers, those who employ workers, are usually vulnerable. Five thousand checks, you say you do. If there is a well-functioning system, then perhaps this administrative burden with five thousand checks, because it is something significant, huge, I think it will be significantly reduced. Therefore, my request is to really examine this process in the context of improving the application of these contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! It is undeniable that this is a process and the experience gained in applying this measure to art. 114a of the Labour Code, the data I presented to you, the checks, are a basis for seeking to improve the regulation of this activity. There are proposals from the business that have come in time, along with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, here is the minister and we are discussing them, so the question was to have a really full period of implementation of this measure, of this text and at the same time any legislation can be improved. We consider these measures, some of them unacceptable, that is, they do not fall into the philosophy and logic of the introduction of day-to-day contracts, but there are also proposals that could be supported. So in this direction we will continue to work, that is, not only to facilitate the administration of day-to-day contracts, which I think has been largely achieved, but to facilitate business in use of this opportunity, because, once again, it is not the only one, there are other options that the Labour Code provides for fixed-term contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. We are going with questions to Minister Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Angelov Hristov concerning the author of the new textbook on history and civilization. Please, Mr. Hristov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question concerns the author's team of the new history textbook. This is the reason for this is the new program on History and Civilization in 10th grade, which the Ministry of Education and Science publishes on its website and which enters into force after two years. Author names in Bulgarian historical science, which were invited to learn about the content of the curriculum in question and the designed textbook, expressed negative assessments both in terms of it and in terms of the whole program. There were criticisms about a deliberate and one-sided presentation of the period after World War II until 1989, described in the textbook as one of the darkest in our history. I remind you that in Bulgaria there are still living witnesses from this historical time and that is why the students are confused and their teachers say that they, the students, say: at home tell us one thing, and you teach us another, where is the truth? Since ancient times historians have confessed the principle: Prima lex historiae, ne quid falsi dicat! The first rule of history is: don't lie! Dear Minister, my question is for the author's team of the book in question on History and Civilization in 10th grade: how was it selected, by what criteria, with what tasks and with what instructions from the Ministry of Education and Science? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! Before answering your question, one clarification: the new history textbook is not presented to the academic community. There isn't one yet, only the curriculum has been established. The author's collectives, which make up the textbooks, are defined by the publishers, each collective independently creating the term text. The history program, as well as the curricula for the other subjects, is prepared by the development of the Preschool and School Education Act. They were published over a year and a half ago. Since then, we have had many discussions, including various representatives of the academic community. Generally speaking, we have no author or author of the Program. We have the steps of previous programs and upgrades and numerous proposals that have been made. I asked my colleagues to get a full background check. Here you will see the names of almost all the prestigious representatives of the academic community who are included at one stage or another. Of course, they didn't all get involved at every single stage. Unfortunately, every process of discussion cannot be discussed.. there is no procedure on which to discuss absolutely all the proposals at each stage. Everyone has the right to make proposals in any form. It's the minister's ultimate responsibility, of course. I also heard your statement. What I can assure you is that the latest changes that have been made since the publication of the Programme for Discussion are less than 8%. The participation of representatives of the academic community you are referring to is minority not only in the programme itself. Even in the final proposals it is highly disproportionate to their media participations. I am very hesitant whether to get into the debate on the substance, because I have a feeling that it is more political than expert.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u76	It's politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u77	Yeah, that's politics. Before I confirmed the Programme, I received confidence not to the specific individuals you refer to, but to enough representatives of the academic community that this Programme is balanced. Such a statement was also made in the media by the Director of the Institute of History at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Daniel Vachkov, who also attended the last discussion before the validation of the Programme. I can tell you who attended and this last discussion before the validation of the Programme, which gave me this confidence. The program does not contain extremes. That's my opinion. I don't deny the achievements in the period 1944. 1989. There are indisputable achievements in a number of fields of culture and in sport and in science, nor do we want to eliminate nostalgia for youth. I also have nostalgia for this period, because I also grew up and lived in this period, but there were achievements during Hitlerism. [[Noise by BSP for Bulgaria.]] There was construction, there were achievements, there were achievements in sports... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But that doesn't rehabilitate the regime. However, the regime is defined as totalitarian and it has its specific characteristics as such. It's on the history program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u78	Time's up, Minister. [[Replicates in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Valchev, colleagues! Of course, it's a matter of principle. It does not concern one person or another, much less the person of the Minister of Education and Science, but the issue is also political, the question is also the elementary truth. First of all, you are not clear who defined the period by what criteria as the total. What is totalitarian society and what is not, is, first, controversial, and, second, arises with a book by Hannah Arendt in the late 1940s and early 1950s. So this is not something indisputable, as for example is the earth's pull to determine the opposite. Secondly, the question of determining the recent past, in which you and I have lived together, because here I see that we are peers around, leads to the following, leads to Orwell's words and thought that the person who controls the present, he controls the past, and whoever controls the past, he will also control the future. Like the entire debate with the Istanbul Convention, this is the second direction with which the purpose is actually to brainwash our children, and when you brainwash the children, it is clear that you will have such a future as the masters of the world want today. In this sense, the battle for the previous totalitarian 45 years is the battle for our present and for our future, whether we will be a people or a biological mass. The forty-five years in which our society lived actually have their failures and their incredible achievements. Their one-sided determination through ideological rather than objective historical prism is actually the reason for my question. I find it highly inappropriate for them to be qualified during the new ideological prism of the new masters of the day. So, Minister, I ask you very much, when this is done, that all representatives of the historical community be consulted, and not only. And, secondly, history is not a narrow-minded science. History is actually the tool by which the current modeling the future in which we are all involved. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary. You're giving up. Mr. Ermenkov, do you want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Education allowed himself to make an insinuation and compare a Bulgarian period of time to Hitlerism and fascism, almost. That is, he set an example that in the time of Hitlerism, too, there were successes. In this way he is trying to perhaps remind us that Bulgaria was an ally of Hitlerist Germany until 1944, but it made it a little interesting by comparing the period after 1944 with Hitlerism. I ask you very much in such cases, when such obvious attempts are made to replace the history of the Republic of Bulgaria, it was then the People's Republic of Bulgaria, by a minister who has established programs and in which this thing is already officially done, to make a remark at least from the stands of the National Assembly not to make these insinuations. Because otherwise it will happen that Bulgaria after 1944 was the same as Germany was during the Hitlerism, which he is currently saying. I mean, Hitlerism has had the same successes we've had. Therefore, I ask you very much, when a minister stands here and starts talking about acting like a minister of the Republic of Bulgaria with all the responsibility and nostalgia he has towards youth, as he expressed himself, to be expressed with appreciation for the education he received then and not compared to the comparison of Bulgaria with things that have never been in our history. I no longer wonder why the programs are such in this opinion of the Minister about the past of Bulgaria and very please one more time, Mr. President, pay attention in such cases so that no distortion of reality occurs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u82	I thank you for the recommendation, Mr. Ermenkov, but as President, I cannot comment on the contents of the speech of the Minister, it is his responsibility in this case, and this could be done by the person who raises the question, in this case Mr. Ivo Hristov. So for me, it's over. We are moving on to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, who will answer the first question to him by the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova, Dragomir Velkov Stoynev, Donka Dimova Simeonova, Georgi Yanchev Gokov, Spas Yanev Panchev on the reconstruction of the administrative building of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, cultural heritage has been subject to protection since the creation of the modern Bulgarian state and under the current Bulgarian legislation the Cultural Heritage Act is legal and is used repeatedly. The management of this same cultural property is a complex process that requires systemicity in the activities as well as mixed competence. He's been invading a lot, and not everyone's getting public. In this spirit is the question addressed to you, Minister. The building in which the Regional Directorate of Agriculture is housed in Stara Zagora was donated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests from the municipality of Stara Zagora in 2016. The building has the status of single real estate cultural property, category of local importance, declared by letter of the National Institute of Cultural Monuments of 1990 and by a protocol of the National Council for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of 1998. In October this year a public procurement for reconstruction of the building was announced. In accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage, investment projects and requests for interventions in protected areas for protection of cultural heritage are approved and the constructions are implemented under the Law on Construction of the territory, after coordination according to the order of art. 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act. There is no information in the Ministry of Culture and in the Archive of the National Institute for Real and Cultural Heritage concerning the contract announced in October 2017. In accordance with art. 200, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act, which implements such investment projects without the permission or coordination with the Ministry of Culture, is punished with a fine of 5 thousand. lv. up to 10,000. BGN, and for a sole trader and legal entity of 15 thousand. lv. up to 30,000. BGN, if the act is not a crime, of course, the act. Aside from the real possibility of damage to cultural heritage, there are natural questions that any Bulgarian citizen would ask. That's why I'm prof. Svetla Bachvarova and the other MPs from 27. Multi-mandated electoral region Dragomir Stoynev, Donka Simeonova and Spas Yanev Panchev ask the question: Who is responsible for this serious pass? The Regional Service "Source" in Stara Zagora and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will suffer a loss from 15 to 30 thousand. lv. The question, Minister, is principled and important. When an administrative structure violates the Bulgarian legislation, who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Bachvarova, Honourable Mr. Stoinev, Dear Mrs. Simeonova, Dear Mr. Gokov, Dear Mr. Panchev! A contract for the replacement of real estate entered into the Registry Office on 29 November 2016 transferred the ownership of a part of a massive 4-storey building owned by the municipality of Stara Zagora to the governor under the State Property Act. By order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food from April 2017 the right of management of the acquired parts of the building of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture is transferred to Stara Zagora. The municipality of Stara Zagora as a former owner of the administrative buildings has not informed the Directorate that the building is a real cultural value of local importance. In the act of municipal property, as well as in the contract of replacement, this fact is also not noted. The building was built in 1944 and is in poor condition - an old electrical installation, the roof is a beam, in the rain runs in the working rooms, which is why the budget of the Directorate for 2017 provides funds for major renovation of the building. On 2 October 2017, a public procurement notice was published in the Register of Public Procurement with the subject of a reconstruction of the administrative floors of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development. The procedure was carried out and a contract was concluded on 22 November 2017 with the first-ranked participant. Prior to the award of the public procurement for the renovated activities, the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development, the town of Stara Zagora, had no information that the building in which it used independent sites is of local importance. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in connection with your question, an inspection was carried out on 11 January 2018 by regional inspectors of the Directorate-General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture and it was found that the building of the Ministry of Culture is of local importance. The final report of the verification on 18 January 2018 is noted as follows, and I quote the following: The colour facade solution is as close as possible to the original and as a whole the effect of the work done is good. The original ornaments are fully preserved and with regard to the repair of the facades there is no destruction or damage to the property. I would like to assure you that the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture will comply with all the instructions for follow-up referred to in the constant protocol. In a nutshell, there was clearly information uncertainty in the transfer of the building that it was of local cultural importance. It is certainly that if a fine is imposed, it will be imposed by the relevant competent institutions, we will decide who will bear the corresponding responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! Me and my colleagues suggest that the Ministry of Agriculture had no information whether this site had a status of local importance of cultural value. But there is no person in Stara Zagora who does not know this perhaps except the director of the district office, who because of the reconciliation of many activities, which we have repeatedly informed you about, has not been informed. In fact, the signal was received by the public in Stara Zagora. You have read part of the inspection that has been carried out, but there are the conclusions that should be taken into account................................................................................................... from Mr................................................................................................................................................ What is required in addition to the administrative fine that will be imposed and will accordingly be received, as not one has been violated, but more laws are that the object must return to its original state. This is a problem that will probably also cause problems for the work of the district office, and I would really like to, when such orders are made, when powers are delegated, to seek the possibility for people who manage, if they do not have sufficient administrative management experience, which is a fact with this order, to be in some form sanctioned and to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u88	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u89	I would like to say that I agree with what Professor Bachvarova mentioned. I will give a check to the Inspectorate to check the overall movement of the preparation of this repair, and this is not construction............................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u90	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. There is a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the implementation of the Regulation in the Member States of the European Union from 1 January 2018. Please, Professor Bachvarova, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u91	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My current issue at this stage relates to the need to apply the so-called Regulation from 1 January 2018. A little clarification. A project that has been preparing for several years and, after all, has come up with a solution aimed at simplifying the common agricultural policy in the field of Direct Payments (direct payments), the common organisation of the market, rural development and the horizontal regulation. All the recommendations that are made to correct legislation and procedures, especially in the field of direct payments, are something that concerns farmers, because if we are able to optimize this legislation at the level of regulations, prerequisites for more efficient use of funds can be created. My question to you relates to whether the Ministry of Agriculture envisages in 2018, especially in the field of direct payments, to make changes relating to the application of direct payments, all the more so that, at present, Regulation No 3, which sets out precisely the requirements for direct payments, is at the stage of public discussion? There are various tensions, objections to the basic guidelines in the implementation of the Regulation, will you comply with them, how much and will there really be an opportunity to make adjustments? Accordingly, if you can also answer for the other guidelines regarding the Rural Development Programme and what the Regulation offers and enables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u92	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u93	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Bachvarova! Indeed, this is an outstanding document which has been viewed for more than two years and was very hardly adopted at the end of last year. The amendments that are made in the Omnibus are an opportunity, and there are many others here that are related to compensation of income, to producer organisations that are interesting in their essence, so I do not object in general to having a very separate conversation with you on some details of these topics. With regard to the main things relating to the upcoming application, the 2017 Regulation allows Member States for certain decisions, but there are provisions that are directly applicable. The regulation authorises the application of the negative list, which is part of an active farmer. For Bulgaria, the national decision for an active farmer is written in the Agricultural Aid Act in order to direct direct support only to real farmers and no changes are foreseen in the requirement for an active farmer in the country. We will not take advantage of this option. She's legally designated. The application of the requirement for an active farmer coincides with the idea in the European Commission's communication on the future of food and agriculture, directing support to real farmers who provide their livelihoods in agriculture. This is the Commissioner's message from the end of November. Member States may, in the next aspect, review their decisions on the introduction of a ceiling of payments under single area payment schemes, and the decision may only be if no ceiling of payments has been applied to date. For Bulgaria, from 2015 an instrument for reduction of payments and a cap under the SPS applies: to one beneficiary with 5% for the amounts from 150 to 300 thousand. EUR., and 100% for the subsidy over 300 thousand. Euros. As a fairer approach to supplementing farmers' incomes, we provide that the approach applied to the ceiling of payments will continue in the coming years of this programming period. The regulation allows Member States to revise their decisions on the transfer of funds between the pillars of the common agricultural policy. Funds may be transferred from direct payments to the Rural Development Programme. Given the great importance of direct payments, farmers and their income do not intend to apply a reduction of the resource by transferring funds from direct payments to the Rural Development Programme. There is one option here for over-reservation of the SPS budget, is also provided as an opportunity, but without changing the amount of total funding under all direct payments schemes. Over-reservation of the budget is in advance and can be paid only if there are significant unused funds under the other direct payments schemes. Analysis of data from previous campaigns shows that there is a very high use of funds under direct payment schemes. At this stage, we do not foresee a reserved over budget to go to the basic payment of the SPS, at the expense of savings from others. Because, in fact, in all directions of the SEP Guarantee Fund package, the absorption is very high, so we cannot take funds from other directions to increase the base payment. The regulation allows for an increase in the rate for the young farmers scheme from 25 to 50 per cent of the amount of the SPS rate. This decision needs to be regulated in the Agricultural Support Act, where the rate under the Young Farmers Scheme is set. Analysis and decision-making are to be carried out. We do not exclude from this option, which is given for the next campaign, after the analysis we are doing this year, to analyse and increase the rate for young farmers, as we currently do not have time in the current campaign that we need to start. There are a lot of other things, so I'm gonna stop at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u95	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. He gave an answer to some of the questions that are being asked, but I would like to comment on the question of voluntary commitment to production. Each country will be able to decide annually. There are two questions here. First, whether there will be a redistribution of resources, as from 2016, when the redistribution payment started, there were objections from one group or another about the resource available. As a result of the implementation, two years may be found or will really be seen what the needs of each of the areas of support are. The question also being raised is linked to the tied support for milk and milk products. There's tension in the sector, there's also...................................................................................................... Here, rather, the issue that arises is that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, asking farmers unilaterally for documents for the implementation of milk, is in no case interested in what milk processors do, as milk is a primary raw material. They have nothing to do with it but deliver it. As a result of their obligation to sell it, they meet on the other side a rather serious cartel form with regard to their requirements and prices. The fact is that if a document is to be given by the dairy industry, and this is widely indicated, the price is 10-15 cents lower than the market price. This problem, if not resolved through the control bodies, will create conditions for tension in the sector next year. In addition, with these measures for young farmers, there is a change in the Agricultural Aid Act, and if you have enough serious analyses, which could probably happen, I think it is not a particular problem to increase the rate. The problem of agriculture not only in Bulgaria, but also in Europe is really the ageing of the employed in the sector, and young farmers are the ones who need to be supported. They don't have access to the ground or even have access to the ground, it's hard. If the financial resource is increased, but this should accordingly be based on analyses, prerequisites will be created really for a fairer distribution of funds. And the last topic of direct payments is permanent pastures. The Bulgarian legislation still has problems with permanent pastures and with the implementation of the law "Whether there will be really opportunities for permanent pastures to benefit from those who need them, i.e. farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u96	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Professor Bachvarova, dear MPs! I would only allow myself to make a statement on the subject of tied production. The production-related schemes are the same as they are and the regime for having to be bound by documents for the purchase of the production, for the sale of the production, but not so much for buying out the buy-in is a slightly older word, were adopted in 2016 and fully supported by the industry. In the current payment for tied proceedings, and there the ceiling is 121 million, the payments we made in December are about 105 million, there is an additional payment to be made after the resolution of cases, but in cases where farmers do not have documentation and have preferred in some form... I do not exclude the subject of poor relationships with processors to buy out, but in all the meetings we cannot tolerate that someone does not want to ask for a buy-out document, and we, fighting against the grey economy, must refer to the institutions. Including through the Ministry, if necessary, when there are buyers who do not wish to receive documents and report revenue. Let's say something else. I believe that it is no secret that there are small producers who prefer to sell their milk in another way.. in bottles of 1 lev, of 1.20, and now at some point when they need a document for the sale, for the payment of this subsidy, there is a problem. We are now relieving the Ordinance from the point of view of the requirements for documents. We will look at all the complaints that have been made for failure, when, for technical reasons, the documents reported, the whole milk sector is a little complicated after the drop of quotas, but in general, the regime needs to be maintained, although it needs to be alleviated in order for the sector to come out in full in the light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is asked again by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova on criteria for determining the concept of agricultural innovations. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question relates to what will be invested in the concept of agricultural innovations. So far, we have witnessed the adoption of measures relating to the production and processing of agricultural production that the concept of "innovation" was used as one of the criteria which gives priority to the projects. Very interestingly, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Ordinance in the same text say what innovation is and then say what is not innovation. Innovations are products produced by farms, introducing a new production process or a new practice, introducing a new organisational form, including marketing, supported by a patent certificate and/or a certificate of useful model implemented within two years prior to the application for support. At the same time, however, in the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization 2014-2020, which the state has adopted, which was the basis and in which we could implement innovation in the operational programmes, there is quite another definition. The definition in this programme, adopted by the Council of Ministers, is: "Introduction into use of some new or significantly improved product, product or service, or production process of a new marketing method, or new organizational methods in commercial practice, organisation of jobs or internal links, which create market advantages and thus increase the competitiveness of companies. In relation to the adoption of measure 16.1, where innovation is at the heart of the nail, in practice, the measure to be applied, my question to you is related to this: what and how will the concept of "innovation" be defined and will it overlap somewhat with what is set out in this National Strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u100	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u101	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Bachvarova! The European Commission's definition of innovations is included for this programming period in the definition of sub-measure 16.1 for the establishment and operation of operational groups within the framework of the European Innovation Partnership. This is the name of the measure. The definition of innovation in the context of sub-measure 16.1 indicates that it may include the development and implementation in the practice of a new or significantly improved product, good or service, a new process, a new marketing method, or a new organisational method, an organisation of the workplace, or external links leading to an increase in economic, social and environmental efficiency. The definition included for the purposes of the sub-measure provides a broad opportunity to support and implement innovative solutions on farms. In the evaluation of candidates, operational groups in which farmers and their projects are mandatory, the description of the project is of particular importance and how it will achieve an innovative solution in practice, as well as the activities envisaged for each phase of implementation of the innovative project. The projects must specify the contribution of the expected results to the objectives of the European Innovation Partnership, to agricultural productivity and sustainability, as well as their dissemination through the network and other information channels. Another important point of the assessment is that the supported projects must enable farmers to address a particular problem or problems in their farms by introducing a concrete innovative solution in practice. The support under sub-measure 16.1 provides an opportunity to strengthen the link between business, science and education in order to increase the competitive advantages of farmers by following the principles of the European Innovation Partnership, which should clearly specify within the Operational Group the responsibilities and responsibilities of the participants in the group. In addition, I inform you that the rules for support under the sub-measure are currently being developed. Discussions with stakeholders are to be held, including within the Monitoring Committee of the Programme, in order to launch the sub-measure in the middle of This Decision shall It is certainly that up to now the topic of innovation has not been, how can I say, the best working on it. We know very well that especially by 4.1 and 4.2 in the first receptions, innovation with these heavy definitions, really very few projects have been qualified for innovation. It is no coincidence that the indicators under these measures, or more precisely for innovation, are not in good performance. Regarding 16.1 there was already one thematic working group. As they say, they had a fight in terms of what to have. Personally, I wish there was a uniformity of definitions. We can't have all kinds of definitions. Personally, I would like to draw experience from countries where this process is better carried out. And on this occasion, but we've talked to our colleagues before, so that I can direct our experts to see if it will be, I won't mention countries. I would very much like to go to the Netherlands, but they with innovation are so far ahead that we will only get confused at some point, but in countries with similar economic conditions and are ahead in this measure, we can gain experience so that we can apply it more effectively, regardless of definition or definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u102	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u103	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Thank you for your reply and that there is a complete coincidence and coverage in the Rural Development Programme with the Strategy, which has also been adopted with the definitions that are, I believe, the resonants. Any additional requirement to what is innovation, a useful model or a patent leads to a state which limits the number and the possibility of innovative solutions and ideas being realised. According to the common agricultural policy, however, each member state can in practice determine what innovation is and adhere to this definition, but there needs to be an institution that determines what this innovation is, because there is no other system and way but an assessment of an innovative solution if there is no responsible institution to do so. At least that's how I read it in the common agricultural policy. Will we have such an institution to assess what innovation is? My second question relates again to measure 16.1. The budget is very small, there are two requirements: to have innovations and to have operational groups. What's the lead? Because an operating group, believe me, I can set up 20 operational groups for you in 20 days, but innovation is the problem that I think should be the lead and determining one in the project assessment. When do you think the adoption of this measure should and will be started, given the fact that it was expected in 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u104	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Minister Porozhanov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u105	Thank you. Very brief. I also believe that innovation should be the lead. At the moment we are working on the guidelines, you know, we are already working on guidelines, they have their working appearance. Pretty soon, we'll be doing a thematic task force again to see them in the form they're working on. In the indicative schedule we have set this to be in April, if I am not mistaken, or May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u106	Thank you. I also thank the MP Svetla Bachvarova for her activity. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning illegal logging in the protected area of Tulovska korya (Tulovo) in the village of Tulovo, Stara Zagora district. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This issue is trivial at first glance because the abuses in the Bulgarian forests are everyday. I am convinced that the preservation of these Bulgarian forests depends not only on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but also on each of us. I believe that everyone has witnessed the logging of trees and thinks that this is done without permits or in the wrong way can contribute to the conservation of the forest by addressing the responsible institutions. In the area from which I have been elected as the MP, this is the twenty-seventh multi-mandated election district of Stara Zagorski, the signs of illegal logging and the signals for this are continuous. This is the case with the "Tulovska korea". It is a protected area located in Stara Zagora district, Muglij municipality, Tulovo locality. It was declared a natural landmark in 1961, and in 2002 it was redacted in a protected area. It's a copy of the documents, I assume you know them. [[Shows documents.]] The aim is to preserve the remnants of a centuries-old oak forest by prohibiting the conduct of any logging, grazing of livestock and any activities that would cause damage or drying of the centuries-old trees. The other activities that are being carried out there illegally against this document will not comment on them, but to the Regional Forest Directorate of Stara Zagora, there has been a signal of illegal logging in this protected area. During the verification of forest employees, there were illegal logging of 546 trees of gumber and summer oak, and the total amount of illegally harvested wood amounted to 76 dense cubic metres. It has been found that the blatant assault against nature was carried out in the period 20 December 2017. " 3 January 2018 by an unknown perpetrator and the materials of the case have been sent to the District Prosecutor's Office. The problem is not new because this has been happening for more than 25 years, but now the invasion is particularly brazen because it is taking place in a protected area and because the previous cases are on smaller scales and the carved wood has been carried out by carts, carts, bicycles and by hand, and in this case the crime is planned and organised, I would call it organized poachers. Motor saws, chainsaws and trucks were used. Dear Minister, in order to preserve the wealth of the forests, there is more to it than finding and registering the crimes. There needs to be more serious measures and control, increased security and more severe penalties. In this regard, it is my question: what serious measures and control will you take to preserve in this case the last heirs of the great Bulgarian forest in the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Porozhanov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u109	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! In connection with your question, the Forests Executive Agency requested from the Regional Forests Directorate of Stara Zagora, the South-Eastern State Enterprise of Sliven, and the State-owned Forestry Ministry of Burgas to provide information on the illegal logging found in the protected area of Tulovska Koriya, as well as the measures and actions they have taken to detect the perpetrators and protect the protected area. The information provided confirmed all the facts you submitted. The land of the village of Tulovo is an area with a concentration of violations and numerous detected systemic attacks in the forests, mostly during the night and winter months with horses and carts of unemployed, socially weak people. Here we softened the definition of the main perpetrators. The organization, the inspections and sanctions imposed in the area by the RFG of Stara Zagora, the employees of the DGS "Muglish" and the structures of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the work of the control units of the Southeast State enterprise, did not lead to the cessation of illegal logging. In 2018, a case was found in the protected area of Toulovska Kolya and there are five constant protocols for cutting of 76 cubic metres. m wood, what you mentioned, which was notified to the District Prosecutor's Office in the city. A Kazanlak that initiated pre-trial proceedings. During the inspection of the received signal on 5 January 2018, the employees of the RDCH Stara Zagora have drawn up an act to establish an administrative violation of the forest guard at the DGS "Mulglig" which has been entrusted with the conservation of the protected territory. In order to stop illegal logging, the following specific measures and actions have been taken: First, Southeast State Enterprise - gr. Sliven has ordered the DGS to provide a horse base for the detained horses until they are auctioned. This is, as they say, the confiscation of the means of transport. Second, for the protection of illegal logging areas in the land of the village of Tulovo are already taking place with greater frequency the joint actions and organized actions of the RDG Stara Zagora, DGS Mulglj and the Department of Zhandarimeria at the Ministry of Interior, which traditionally respect to a significant extent the potential offenders in the region. I would like to tell you that even last week we had a new meeting with the management of the General Directorate (Gendarmeria) for districts not only in Tulovo, for such attacks, because the raids are from the wood people for heating and it is very difficult to deal with only the forest inspectors and our efforts. In the clamp of all this, we keep informing. Last year alone, since the inauguration of the current leadership, we've made 370 thousand. controls on the way of extraction, on illegal logging, on transport, on forests. I believe he has his prevention. Of course, it's very difficult to boast that anything in the forest system would stop. And I would graduate: over the past two years, a number of amendments and additions to the texts of the Penal Code have been developed, even the last proposal has been submitted by a group of MPs on 30 November 2017 to the National Assembly, but has not yet been reviewed and discussed by the committees. The envisaged changes are expected to result in: improving work on imposing and implementing punishment and illegal activities in forests and poaching; an opportunity to increase efficiency in the prevention and sanctioning of forest infringements; opportunities for regulatory regulation of punishment, such as free labour of offenders for the benefit of society, which are socially weak and are not able to possibly pay the relevant fines, and qualifying as a crime in cases of rehabilitating forest infringement after administrative punishment is imposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u110	Thank you, dear Minister! Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to make your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u111	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the answer you're giving me. I am far from blaming the current situation for these 27-28 years of invasion of the Bulgarian forest only and only the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or the current government. However, things seem to be getting out of control and even the people in the area do not tolerate it by watching what happens to the Bulgarian forest. In this case, they are not stopped even by the fact that the cover of Toulovo is protected. Imagine if the forest isn't protected! I am also of the opinion that the Ministry of Interior should be involved very seriously in the general battle against the attack of the Bulgarian forest; the Ministry of Economy because of the realization of the stolen because in this case it is almost industrial mining of wood; the Ministry of Labour and Social Assistance because these people who most often steal the small, chicken thieves are unable to provide heating. There's something else I'd like to say. The forest executive agency, which basically performs the control function, is underfunded, and you know that very well and perhaps this prevents it from carrying out its duties fully. The purpose of my question to you, Minister, is to provoke you to take serious measures and strengthen control to preserve the wealth of the Bulgarian forest. Why not, if necessary. As you said, there are other proposals for legislative changes, because the direct responsibility for the protection of the Bulgarian forest bears both you as executive authority................... the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, as well as us as MPs in order to optimize efficiency in the fight against illegal logging, especially in these protected areas. If we have to accept legal changes. Otherwise, society's growing distrust of the ability of authorities that have obligations to deal with such violations is present, and you know it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You don't want a doppelganger. We continue with a question from the National Representative Aleksandar Nikolaev Sabanov about the outstanding liabilities of the Bulgarian National Assembly. I've had my fill of tobacco manufacturers. Here you are, Mr. Sabanov, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I appeal to you as a Member of Parliament from the Silistren Election Region. In meeting with my constituents, I was asked the question by a group of tobacco producers who have united in the Initiative Committee on their outstanding obligations from the Bulgarian Industrial Association in the period 2010 - 2011. In their words, according to the current Tobacco and Tobacco Act, there is a guarantee fund in which producers and buyers import 2% of the value of the tobacco sold by producers and buyers. In the present case, no such compensation has been made, although the idea of the creation and operation of such a Guarantee Fund is precisely to guarantee payments to producers. The aim of this issue is to hear the voice and to solve the problems precisely of 650 families from Northeastern Bulgaria, whose work has been damaged by the incorrect company, which I realized is already closed. I have also sent you a list of the natural and legal persons to whom I have had obligations. I will quote just a few of them, as the villages and municipalities of which are: BGN 803 228. they have legal persons from the village of Listets, the municipality of Glavinitsa; the municipality of PKK, the municipality of Konevo, the municipality of Isperih, the municipality of Izgrev and the municipality of Belitsa, the municipality of Tutrakan. Agricultural producers: Sezgin Hasan from the village of Chernik the municipality of Dulovo, Zaide Ahmedova from the village of Zagorice................................................................................................................................................... You can also see how many people there are, I say again - 650 families who have given their labors and have been deceived by incorrect debtors, so to speak. In this regard, my questions are: firstly, was there such a fund, and if there was, what happened to the accumulated funds in it? Who disposes of them after the closure of the Agriculture Fund? What, of course, can the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest do to grant these people the honest work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u115	Thank you! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sabanov, before I begin with my answer, first I would like to express my absolute agreement with Mr. Gokov's line of speech I did not deliberately get up so we wouldn't waste time. Colleagues have made a long answer, but the matter of good or bad is clear to me. The Tutune Fund was working, you know, and its main function was to provide premiums to farmers. The tobacco law enabled the tobacco industry to make certain rules in its original structure, to have minimum buying-in prices and at these minimum buying-in prices to buy the tobacco of the tobacco producers concerned, respectively to have licensed processing companies. The licensed processing companies were over 20. "Isperih BT" is part of the structure of Bulgartabac at that time. He had a majority share of.. Bulgartabac Holding........................................ the capital of Bulgartabac....................................................... With regard to the Tutune Fund: these 2% were revenue from the Fund. A Guarantee Fund has never been created with any structure, any functions, and must also be a separate legal entity. The Tutune Fund was the legal person and this revenue was dropped in 2006. The Tutune Fund itself, first of all, had the status of a non-financial account, already consolidated, it became part of a secondary officer of the Ministry of Agriculture as a budget account. Its closure also closes the account itself as part of the closure of the budget for the financial year in question. In this case, these outstanding funds from 2009 cannot be covered by State funds, which means the Republican budget, respectively the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture or any other structure. Here we do not have a similar Guarantee Fund, as with banks, to guarantee payments, deposits or anything. There's another problem coming up right now. I assume that these people are also in your district a Greek firm, not to say it now, has already been revoked its license, but it is bankrupt and also owes similar amounts. I've had a few dates. We are trying through the mission and they are going these payments, the claims of the Bulgartabak. The other part remains in the hands of the Greek owner, who is in Thessaloniki and in Kavala. Once again, over 1 million are due there. lv. But there is no way that the state is a commercial relationship, so to speak, between producers and buying-in a commercial organisation to pay off such funds. What the state does and can do, and will continue to do, is through the transitional national aid to tobacco, it started with just over 100 million, started with about 105.100 million, and decreased by 5% every year until 2018. It may have been up to 2019 to support tobacco producers, but on a reference basis for manufactured and purchased tobacco from the period 2008 - 2010. In this year we have 84 million planned. lv. Last year, 89 million were paid out. lv. These are in favour of tobacco producers' income, even though some of them are currently not engaged in tobacco production. What I would also like to say today from the honourable platform of the National Assembly, although some do not respect it very much, I personally respect it: we will do our best, and we are in talks on our own lines, to preserve transitional national assistance for tobacco production and in the next programming period. Yeah, it's gonna change the reference base. We need to step on a reference base that is up-to-date, tobacco producers who are currently tobacco producers have the data and we need to protect the amounts.. we have now fallen to about 14 thousand tonnes of production, while in the old reference base the premiums range between 40 and 45 thousand tonnes of production so that we can preserve the income of this work, which is indeed extremely valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u116	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov! Here's a line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I really thank you for your answer. It was only right for people who didn't get the money they owed them. Ispressed GT, yet they knew not to lie to them and walk back and forth lawyers and various representatives of political parties who eventually took over these areas and tried to bring political dividends from things that neither depended nor had how to become. Thank you, however, for what you are doing for the entire sector. I hope the people are satisfied with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Would you like the floor, Minister? Allow me to thank Minister Porozhanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control, as well as the MPs who remain in the Chamber, and especially to express my gratitude for expressing respect for the high tribune of the National Assembly by the Minister. The next session is Wednesday, January 30th, 9:00 p.m.
