ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, you know that today is the first Wednesday of the month and proposals of the parliamentary groups can be made according to the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First in a row is the political party's parliamentary group, Volja. There is no proposal. The second are the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB. There is also no proposal. Proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria 1. Draft decision to produce a national referendum. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 31 January 2018 There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of the United Patriarchs and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We continue with the National Assembly Work Programme from 7 to 9 March: "2." New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 47 of 21 February 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. Second vote on the bill on measures against money laundering. Importer: Council of Ministers on 22 February 2017. Adopted at first vote on 6 October 2017. 4. Election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 2 February 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 8 March 2018 5. A bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation. Importer: Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018 6. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote the Project for a Programme which I read to you without the proposals of the parliamentary groups. Vote 182 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Bills and Draft Resolutions Joined since 28 February 2018 until 6 March 2018: Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers: Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers: Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Messages: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 January 2018 to 24 February 2018 and Protocol No 10 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 February 2018, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 6 March 2018, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: The Future of Labour The material is provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Education and Science and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. We move on to the proposals included in the agenda under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRODUCE NATIONAL REFERENDUM. Proposal by Dragomir Stoynev - Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 7 March 2018 to include a draft decision to produce a national referendum with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, No 854-02-9, as of 31 January 2018 Mrs. Ninova, you're welcome to develop the motives for the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We submitted a proposal for a referendum on the Istanbul Convention after its adoption by the Council of Ministers and submission to the National Assembly caused huge tensions in the Bulgarian society, polar opinions and clashes of positions. We believe that in this case it is best to pronounce the people through a referendum. Why? We'd like to motivate you. I would divide the Istanbul Convention into two parts. The undisputed one who condemns violence against women, children, and people over which we have no arguments. The Istanbul Convention obliges the ratification countries to adopt national legislation against violence, to establish a system of bodies to control this legislation. We have proposed such laws. There's no need for anyone to oblige us. We proposed on January 18th changes to the Penal Code, which make domestic violence a common crime. Today is March 7th, and this bill has not seen the light of day, does not move in committees, is not considered and is not included on the agenda. On 2 February, we proposed changes in Bulgarian legislation to implement the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention for the creation of crisis centres in all areas. Alas, this bill does not move in the National Assembly. What can we conclude, honourable fellow governors? That fighting violence against women and children is not your real goal. If it were the real goal of adopting the Istanbul Convention, we would have very urgently adopted the changes to these laws. The second part of the Convention, however, the controversial one, many times assured us, but especially the Bulgarian citizens, that it was not about any third sex, about gender and so on. It's working! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3: "Paul" means socially built roles, behavior, activities and characteristics. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12: The countries shall take the necessary measures to promote changes in social and cultural patterns of behavior in order to eradicate the stereotypical roles of women and men. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14: The countries shall take, where appropriate, the necessary steps to include, in line with the developing opportunities of the students' learning material on non-stereotypical gender roles. What is worse is that in the explanatory report to the Convention, all this is very clearly and categorically explained in the following way: "Definitely groups of individuals can also face discrimination on the basis of their gender identity, which in simple terms means that the sex with which they are identified is not in accordance with the gender assigned to them by birth. This includes certain categories of persons such as: transsexual, transvestites, transvestites and other groups of people who do not comply with what society has defined as belonging to the category "man" or "woman." These are quotes from the Convention and the report to it. These quotations answer the question clearly: is there a third sex being mentioned? We're not against these different people. They have their rights and these rights are protected in the Bulgarian Constitution, but we are against it becoming a mandatory norm of training for our children. This is not about combating violence against women and children, it is about national values, family values, peoplepsychology and saving Bulgarian children. Because of these texts, the Convention has not been ratified by Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Britain. Moreover, there is no automatic obligation to sign it, and the decision of the Council's Committee of Ministers is formed as adopted without a vote and not by consensus, because other European countries and peoples do not want to adopt these texts and turn them into their national legislation. Our position has been unchanged since 2013, when our Foreign Minister Christian Vigenin informed Parliament that due to these controversial texts, we should not proceed to ratification of the Convention. We do not accept your thesis, gentlemen, that those who oppose the Istanbul Convention are anti-Europeans. The dispute here is not about anti-Europeans. The dispute is: Europeans are arguing with each other about European and national values. As you have seen, many other European countries have not accepted it. We took the risk of going against our political family. We took the risk of taking responsibility for this. We made our political choice at one of our higher forums, where we commented for six hours on the arguments for................................................................................................ And with the risk of being opposed to our political family, we sided with those over 70% Bulgarian citizens who do not approve of the Istanbul Convention and stated definitely that we represent the Bulgarian people in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the European Parliament and will respect its interests. Who did you ask, dear rulers? On the first day of parliament, we all swore that we would be guided by the interests of the people. Who were you representing when you decided to submit the Convention and support it? The Council of Ministers made that decision in the dark. You defended itq without complying with the opinion of these 70% Bulgarian citizens, of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, of the Muffins, of the Catholic religion, of the Bulgarian academic community, of the Presidential institution.................................................................................... Ms. Karajancheva, did you call all these people dark forces who have stood against the progressive Istanbul Convention? On whose behalf did you call them that? You are President of the National Assembly, but do not express the opinion of the National Assembly with this qualification. Who do you call dark forces? I cannot speak on behalf of 70% Bulgarian citizens because I am not authorized to speak for this, but I can speak on behalf of a million Bulgarian citizens who have sent us here I think neither is the Bulgarian Patriarchate. I don't think the president's institution is like that either. I think these 70% Bulgarian citizens are also not like that. Your response to our proposal for a referendum is not because you have submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to rule on unconstitutionality. We respect that choice of yours, of course, but it has nothing to do with the referendum. The Constitutional Court will say two options: the.... is in line with the Constitution................................................................................................. Then you will invoke this in order to re-submit it, or say: "This is contrary to the Constitution and you will proceed to change the Constitution, as some of your representatives have already said, only this Convention to be adopted. We understand that today the Council of Ministers will withdraw it from the National Assembly at last, after Mr. Borisov promised it at least three weeks ago and did not do it, but that is not enough. The Council of Ministers must repeal the decision adopting it and submit it to the National Assembly. Your second argument not to want a referendum is not to spend extra money. Dear colleagues, you have spent hundreds of millions on everything, but you do not want to spend this money to ask the people! It's not the money. The reason is another: once the people have spoken by not speaking at the Istanbul Convention, this issue is closed forever and you cannot bring it back again and again. This is what you want to escape from the people's will and from closing the topic once and for all. Without a referendum you will submit it again when, in Mr. Borisov's words, consensus is reached on this topic. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria, I inform you that on our side you will not receive consensus and agreement on this subject under any conditions. Seek consensus with the Bulgarian people. The only way to do that is when we ask him through a referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u3	Set the group's time as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u4	Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to emphasise that the current inclusion of this item on the agenda is unacceptable and against the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We do not object to the admission, despite the inadmissibility, but we believe that, in the light of precision, we should state the arguments for this intolerance. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev in his capacity as Vice-President, with which, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, proposes to be included as a point in the weekly programme Draft decision to produce a national referendum, No 854-02-9, submitted on 31 January 2018 by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and group. The proposal is inadmissible as non-compliance with the requirements of art. 53, para. 8 because, in this order, only bills can be proposed for consideration. Only drafts and drafts of decisions may be submitted for consideration. In this case, this does not meet the requirements due to the following: under this registration number in the information system of the National Assembly is registered a proposal by MPs to produce a national referendum with a question: As part of it, a draft decision on the proposal proposed for self-examination has also been applied. According to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, the subject of a discussion by the National Assembly is a proposal for the production of a national referendum, not a draft decision. According to the Law on the proposal, a decision is adopted for the preparation of the project, which has been entrusted to an aid authority of the National Assembly, among those to whom it has been allocated. Therefore, the arguments below concern a proposal to produce a referendum rather than a draft decision which has not been taken to the National Assembly. The proposal for the production of a national referendum has not been submitted by the leading Legal Committee, which also contains a draft decision on the proposal as required by art. 13, para. 5 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. However, in Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 of the Law has been developed only with regard to the proposal by the Committees of Initiative, so far in its practice the National Assembly has applied this procedure by analogy and to the proposals submitted by the other legal entities. Dear Members, in order not to introduce you further to all other arguments, I will point out the following analogy: on 4 March The 2014 parliamentary group of GERB requested the same. I can read you exactly what she asked for, and it's left unmissed, not seen in the forty-two parliament. Immediately thereafter, on that Wednesday, the Legal Committee was urgently gathered and decided to reject the proposal of the MPs from GERB's parliamentary group. I am not going to read all the arguments for this inadmissibility, I merely stress, despite the inadmissibility, it is obvious that it is in favour of this debate to speak. Let's talk, let's discuss this issue. We hope that the more we talk, the less manipulations in this direction will be less. The attempt to connect the other so-called legislative initiatives of the BSP for Bulgaria is absolutely false with the movement and with the ruling on the proposal for a referendum. On one proposal, BSP lawyers strongly insisted, I think at the previous meeting of the Legal Commission, which is why all seven penal codes are included on the agenda of the Legal Commission in the past and in today's session. With regard to your proposals for the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence, I do not want to express an opinion and an opinion, it will be personal before being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but it is a follow-up issue. This is not the only issue that limits the implementation of the measures in the Istanbul Convention. Here you are trying to manipulate society to explain which is what, what instruments can be achieved, almost by amending a norm, could be achieved the effect and result fused with the measures under the Istanbul Convention. I will say this in order not to prolong the time and not to overspoke: if this proposal would be discussed in the relevant committees, and it has been discussed, in some of the committees it has been rejected, in the leading Legal Committee it has not been discussed. In any case, it does not meet the requirements for the direct participation of citizens. It does not meet the requirement of art. 9, para. 3. There we have an absolute ban on discussing in general the regulations of the European Union in this case an international treaty. For this reason, you have also failed to properly formulate the question. The first question was not true, it was not correct, it was not corrected, and the one you asked is even more misleading. Imagine an agreement being reached and going to a referendum with this issue? What do you think the answers will be? At least half of them will be wrong and in error. I will not project negativity in the logic of a question against political negativity. Only by legal correctness do I believe that this issue is illogical, unacceptable and does not comply with the requirements of the special law on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u8	Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have entered into a dispute on the substance of whether the question is admissible and how it should be voted, respectively. This had to be done on the committees after all. You are well aware that your main argument is inadmissible for consideration in this House, for not being seen in the leading Legal Committee, depends on when it is viewed and whether it will be viewed in the Legal Commission. That's up to you, though. I would like to remind you that there are a whole series of laws that have been seen here in this room without going through one, but not one committee. After all, almost a month and a half since the Law was introduced, there has been enough time to be examined in all the committees. For example, it is dealt with in one of the committees - the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. The fact that it has not been dealt with in the leading Legal Committee is a matter of organisation and it is no coincidence. It's up to you and you don't watch it for a reason. You could have looked at it. And that is exactly where the arguments on the substance were, which you then express, where you eventually had to confront the opinions, in order to come to some conclusion to be presented in the Chamber, respectively to the citizens. By the way, I would like to remind you that, for example, the Law on interest rates entered without being seen in any committee, which did not prevent you from accepting it, on top of everything, to do the same again: not to insert it a second time, for a second reading at all. I think it's been more than two months and it's still hanging, although your coalition partners have been using it to score their version. You're not bringing in their options right now. This tactic of not putting them on the committee and then saying: "He hasn't passed the commission. " - He hasn't passed! Who's gonna run it through a committee? Isn't that what Committee Chairs do? Specifically, in this case, you are the chairman of this committee. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line, please, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u10	Dear Mr. Kirilov, Mrs. Chairman! I'm doing you, Mr. Kirilov, a line because in your speech, first of all, we didn't actually hear your arguments against. You have put forward procedural arguments in which I can also object. I strongly oppose you manipulating your colleagues by reading al. 3 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government............................................................................................ 9, because this text says:.. they cannot be subjected to a referendum in their entirety, a code and laws which fully govern the matter of a particular area. Is it entirely settled, Mr. Kirilov, this convention to protect women and children from domestic violence? No, he's not totally setting them up. That is why we refer to the following text: It is more than clear that this international legal act does not fully contain the regulation of these public relations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mr. Popov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, we do not claim comprehensiveness in terms of the issues we have tabled in the penal codes, for example, but this is our contribution to the topic, to solving this problem. The question is, what did you do? What have you done, what have the colleagues of Volja, of the United Patriarchs? Have you introduced any laws in this regard? No, you didn't do anything! Now you don't want to produce a referendum. In practice, Mr. Kirilov, quoting the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, you are misleading the House that no referendum can be produced on issues concerning an international treaty. A moment ago, your colleague explained and quoted the text as saying that he could, but before ratification. You have confirmed our opinion that you want to ratify this international treaty so that the people cannot then be heard; that a referendum on this issue cannot be produced. This is exactly what you have done with your speech.. you want to ratify this international treaty now or obviously later, so that the people can not then be asked, stepping on the text in the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to respond to the three lines that the coworkers did. Firstly, with regard to Mr. Kutev's reply, I would like to clarify the following: you have been mistakenly left with the conviction, if you believe that the only defect pointing to the inadmissibility is the failure by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Inadmissibility is in the following. You have tabled a proposal to produce a referendum. This is the document that initiates the initiative, the launch of a procedure under the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. However, this is not a draft decision, but in the order we are now discussing, drafts and drafts for solutions can be discussed. This was also the debate in 2014, when you rejected GERB's proposal to produce a national referendum. In that procedure we did not have a debate on our proposal that I wanted to clarify. On the objection of colleague Milkov to para. 3. Colleague Milkov, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, according to all the people who support the Convention and those who do not support it, the Istanbul Convention contains the framework framework for matter to combat domestic violence and all measures to build this institutional protection. For this reason, I believe that it fully regulates the matter and settles it not only on a national scale, but also within the countries that have signed it and ratified it. In my opinion, this inadmissibility is clearly present in the case at hand. Regarding the objections of fellow Member Popov, what have we done? Three years we accept, only one step at a time, including changes to the Penal Code. We overturned the fundamental rule that the bully is not condemned if he marries the victim three years ago! Remember three years ago how we surprised both fellow lawyers and civil society with this change. We have adopted a change in several legal acts, including the Law on Protection against Discrimination. That's where we introduced the protection of all sexes and the changed sexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will not support the draft decision. It is our permanent position, and in this case, not every question, not everything is subject to a referendum. Colleagues, we generally support this powerful weapon of direct democracy, but in this case we do not believe that a referendum is needed. All countries that have supported the Convention have reserves, either without reserves, check how many of these countries have had a referendum, colleagues. The holding of a referendum has become an escape from responsibility, an escape from the responsibility of politicians, because it is very easy to hide from the people, especially when you have formulated the issue as it suits you. Direct democracy is being devalued. The political representation of the voters in parliament is being devalued. Bulgaria is still a parliamentary republic and any such question raised, talks about the inability of politicians to hold the relevant debate, to make the appropriate decision, to inform their voters. We will not support this decision. In recent years, referendums have become not so much a public consultation as a demand for political dividends through populist issues throughout Europe. It has come to the point that last week a European state decided to cancel the Law on referendums at all. The Netherlands, fellow MPs, often used this instrument. After a poll directed by populists in the Netherlands, last week the lower House of the Dutch Parliament repealed the Law on referendums at first reading. So very carefully you have to select the issues, carefully formulate them, because this weapon of direct democracy is becoming an inexpensive way of seeking populism and political dividends. You're on your way, colleagues, with a rook on a partridge hunt. That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Any lines to Mr. Hamid's statement? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Hamid, I cannot agree, especially with the last sentence. When it comes to asking the people, the sovereign, I believe that there is no qualifying at all, such as......................................... and the like........................................... However, the fact is that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in such situations is getting closer to the opinion of the Political Party GERB and indeed this proximity becomes quite disturbing, but in the end it is entirely your right. It is not normal when all religions are declared against this convention, the MPs should consider that it is not even necessary to ask the Bulgarian citizens. Whether it is millions for certain municipalities, in which the resource is mostly directed towards the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I cannot say. After all, our wish is when there is public tension and when GERB refuse to discuss this problem in the Chamber and forcefully impose it on the Bulgarian people, as representatives of the Bulgarian voters we wish to hold this debate here in the most democratic way. When a convention is introduced even before the opinion of the Bulgarian citizens is heard and it is said: "No, it must be accepted. It must be accepted... we cannot in any way agree! Of course, it is your right to listen to your constituents or perhaps to the recommendations of the Political Party GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Zablyanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr Hamid! In your speech and in the position of the group you have expressed, you have raised some fundamental questions and therefore I am using my right to a reply. The measure between plebiscitarism and representative democracy. This is an extremely important matter. This is a balance of responsibility that the broadcast representatives of the people bear, in this case, in the higher authority of Parliament. There's no other measure out there. Should there be a referendum or no referendum, when to turn representation to the people and when not to address the people? There are no recipes. I think we should all be clear here. The only measure in this case, beyond those small examples, as history has shown, where the referendum has become an almost daily decision-making tool, including on issues and of the domestic nature of citizens, beyond them referendums are always held when the biggest issues of a state and a society for the form of government, for orientation are concerned. We are banned from holding a referendum, of course, with us, but such historical referendums have been held. The Republic has changed the kingdom with a referendum in Bulgaria. The question of the parliamentary republic. The Parliamentary Republic, honourable Members, does not deny the referendums. The referendum cannot destroy the parliamentary republic. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It may weaken some degree of representative democracy if it is abused, and here I am solidarity with your opinion. However, this is not about abuse. In this case, it is a matter that affects the fundamentals of national self-awareness and therefore the referendum has a place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Hamid, this is about trends, about changing attitudes, about understandings, about traditions, about values. This is an organized action of this power, starting from the replacement of history, the replacement of the textbooks that Bulgarian children are trained and will be trained on, and reach this public value in Bulgaria, to the replacement of the values of citizens with the Istanbul Convention. I'm afraid... You said: "To shoot with a cannon at partridges. " - Do not turn the Bulgarian people into partridges. They're not partridges. Thank you. [[Shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Hamid, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We have never denied the holding of the referendums, on the contrary, the DPS supported the Law on citizens' inquiry. This is our permanent position, expressed by me a little while ago, far before the GERB party appeared, colleagues. Long before that, we have expressed the same position, repeated it, and so it will be. The holding of referendums, using them purely populist for party purposes, leads to events such as Brexit, colleagues. A populist has appeared, Nigel Farage, initiated this referendum, held it and at the moment, after the poll in England, the majority regrets the decision taken, but it is too late. So don't make us and don't take the role of Nigel Farage, colleagues. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. To speak, Mr. Atanasov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u26	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I think that this debate with the Istanbul Convention ended nearly a month ago because all the brightest minds of Bulgaria spoke on this issue, all the traditional creeds, led by the Holy Orthodox Church, with the Chief Mufti, with the evangelical churches, also spoke many politicians from us. In my opinion right now, colleagues, my personal opinion is that we are simply rewinding the spring. The following question immediately arises. Given that today this convention will be withdrawn from the National Assembly at least this is the request of the Council of Ministers, we immediately ask ourselves the question: well, good referendum, referendum! Well, colleagues, a few years from now, there is no clear opinion in the People's Ask Act....................... what is going on?! If, in a few years' time, this, our Parliament, for example, has a very liberal majority, and although we have a referendum, they can bring this issue back to a review. I think that colleagues from GERB and from all political forces we have matured on the issue, we have seen it, and most of all a large part of the Bulgarian people categorically reject this convention. I think that the very self-preservation of the political forces will not allow this issue to be brought back to the National Assembly from now on. The position of the political forces is clear, the position of the fellow Members of the Left was clear, the position of the United Patriarchs was clear. [[Replications. Proclaims: "Not very clear! "]] It was perfectly clear! It was very clear the position of the United Patriarchs, especially on these issues. Look at our life and our very existence "United Patriarchs" have always declared themselves against such documents. In this is our essence for our existence. We are a conservative political force and we absolutely do not accept such documents. In this regard, I think that, colleagues of BSP, if you are worried about public response, yes, you have achieved a certain public response, but right now I think that you are overreacting and at some point they will turn against you with the insistence on this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! I will not allow myself to get into the subject of matters concerning the Istanbul Convention, but I will allow myself to get into the subject and the question: why do you want a referendum on the issues it concerns? In my opinion, colleagues, information processes, streams in modern society, especially in electronic media, in social networks, set their own rhythm of life in modern societies not only in Bulgaria. Thus, society has its own pulse of development, self-determining its own agenda and asking important questions. Where is the political class in this process? Based on the classic model of tolerance, of interaction between political class and voters, it is clear that we cannot carry out complete communication and instead of looking for some balance as politicians, we slip very easily, we are looking for a recapitulation, we are looking for the cheap political product of populism and we are going inertly into certain processes, which is the case, for example, to produce a referendum. You would never have thought of asking for a referendum, colleagues, if the processes in social networks, in the public-political space, the information flows had not asked the topic of this referendum. That's a problem! Instead of politicians looking for the inert path, the easy way, they need to correct this process, because populism is becoming increasingly dangerous in the world. On the basis of this populism worldwide, leaders appear to threaten both security within the country and in the region and throughout the world. The processes are everywhere and we are not the only ones who are not going in a good direction. This approach is not a responsible approach, it is not a political approach. This approach sets out a matrix of irresponsible political behavior that creates a short, profitable political product based on a calculated loss in the long term for all of us. This is why I will not support the idea of this referendum, because these processes, if we go in this plane with regard to where they lead us, will ultimately lead us to opposition not only on this issue, but also on many other issues in society. This is a very dangerous trend in which we slip and this approach is not pragmatic, it is not responsible for both the political class and the future processes and national security. We say: stop populism, we say: stop this destructiveism! That's not responsible behavior! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ebatine, it seems to me that sometimes what is on social networks and which is in public consciousness finds a rather distorted reflection in the National Assembly. As someone who is interested in what is going on in the world, I was interested in the topic of the seminar which had the Movement for Rights and Freedoms a few days ago. It was very interesting about the new role of liberal democracy, and it was supplemented so, I tried to draw it out to attract citizens into the decision-making process. At this seminar, what you have debated is the opposite, at least in my mind, of what you have stated from this tribune, and I wonder who to believe. This is not created by social networks, it is from an official announcement that was derived from the party "Movement for Rights and Freedoms". I have believed in many steps that the party has taken. A movement for rights and freedoms. But your thesis here was very wrong. What exists in public opinion, in social networks, is to correct it and to oppose it. Think about what would happen, walking like this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Any other lines? There are no other lines. Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u32	What would happen when you walked like that didn't sound like an argument to me. But if you want me to answer you on the topic of the workshop of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms......................in relation to open communication, it is always two-way. Getting a signal from the voter doesn't mean this signal has to be recognized at a hundred percent. This signal is sometimes symptoms, colleagues, for dangerous processes that arise in societies, because not everything that is like a signal, politicians must accept it. If we do this, it can take us to very dangerous waters. The waters of populism are very dangerous, opposing people, setting dividing lines. We, if we go that way, in time there will be no one with a person to understand in this room, if you will. Because in the end, this direction, this time is the way for everyone to recognise their right and not recognize each other's right on every single question. An absolutely irresponsible approach that we, as the DPS, will not accept, will not approve and will not support. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, if anyone in this House feels quite comfortable, quite aware, undoubtedly on the subject.... it is only us from the United Patriarchs..... because our position, our opinions and our struggle, what we have expressed is completely and perfectly in sync with our constituents, the people who have sent us here. All other political forces, both BSP and DPS, and GERB, as well as Volya, who expressed half of their position on the Istanbul Convention, are different from the opinions of your voters, from the entire Bulgarian people on the issue. You're new people here, I'm not going to take you back too much, I'm not going to be very specific. I remember many years before what was the position of the Ataka, what was IMRO's position on the issue of the Lisbon Convention, where the rule and the statement that the European Union was based on Christian values did not come into play for a reason. And these are the results now: this whole liberal battle, which has been fought for the last thirty, forty years in Europe and in the world, which is the main defining contradiction of our time. In Bulgaria, BSP supporters and voters are absolutely against what the Istanbul Convention commanded and wanted. And the voters of the DPS at least do not know how to fall for pathologies, such as the Istanbul Convention wanted to officially impose on us Bulgarians. With GERB things are exactly the same as the mood of normal Bulgarians who, again, say, normal Bulgarians who did not want this harmful and terrible result. For Volya, too. But what will happen? In the corridors of power in Brussels, the liberals, and, to say the same, the pedestal factors, which are very strong, very demanding and desired Bulgaria... [[(Laughter) Loud noise. Replies: "Make a remark to him. ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u35	Mr. Shopov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u36	That is the word, Mr. Chairman, in the Bulgarian language. Stop changing words and concepts. I have repeatedly insisted on using the real words of this tribune. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The word gay? What does "gay" mean, I don't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u37	Mr. Shopov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u38	Under pressure, GERB agreed to implement this action, why not the BSP had created prerequisites. In the European Parliament and the MPs of the BSP voted each other out, together, how many people do you have, no one objected, no one voted abstention. Got it! And in such a case, GERB said: The Turks are for it, they're ready, and eventually they'll pass. Over there some patriots, we're gonna crush them, how much it is, and that was the line. Yeah, well, no. Suddenly BSP took a correct position and I will tell you: surely GERB up to this point you know, our coalition partners from GERB, for a year you didn't want more negatives than this your intention, than this action. But at one point, your leader, famous for his instincts, with his true sense of the moods of the people, stopped. And now, stop and from now on BSP continues because you are unstoppable in your rage and coalition bait to cause even more negatives. Come on, there's a measure! The Istanbul Convention is withdrawn. The Council of Ministers revokes its decision, withdraws from the National Assembly, and what more do you want?! I've advised you before in these matters. Yes, you are opposition, act like opposition, but everything has a measure. Everything! The measure is a very important thing in politics, Mrs. Ninova. And here you have come to the unheard of accusations you have called the government these days the Gendarian government. May I?! [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] Mrs. Nino, stop it, stop it, I'm telling you: everything has a measure! Now a few words on the issue of the referendum as such. [[Noise and lines.]] The position of the DPS as a liberal party is clear. In fact, they are always against the referendum as a way of expressing the people's will. Because why would the DPS want a referendum?! Why would they want to see people's moods?! Their electorate is so obedient and so kept in submission that such checks are not necessary for them. They're not necessary. This is their permanent position as a liberal party. This is the position of all liberal forces in Europe, and also around the world. Because liberalism is the power of the minority over the majority. Liberalism by definition is a doctrine that is anti-democratic. Monopoly, NGOs and others are the power centers! This must finally become clear to us after all these years, and we must fight against it. And we, if we vote against this proposal for a referendum, it is not about anything else, it is not a matter of substance. [[Noise and lines.]] The question is: there is no need to make a referendum which is clear that 99% of Bulgarians are against the Istanbul Convention! 99% of Bulgarians are against the Istanbul Convention! That should be clear. And in this situation, it is unnecessary for this highest form of democracy to be conducted, to be carried out if you wish to be devalued. Things are now brought to a point, to a state that is an answer to the popular vote and moods, to the people's views, and let's end up so far. If danger appears again, bear in mind that we of the United Patriarchs are here to see you. We're not gonna let that happen, but let's not do anything stupid, let's not strain the spring and end the subject, because it's really counterproductive to society now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I won't. Here's the procedure. Meanwhile, colleagues, our guests on the balcony are citizens of the city of Silistra. Welcome to Parliament! Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a remark to you in the manner of conduct in view of the fact that you have allowed your colleague to make extremely inappropriate and ineligible qualifications in respect of those in Brussels. I will not repeat the epithets and qualifications that have been made, but they are extremely unacceptable. For the recommendations given here to the MPs and to individual political forces, including our political power, we know very well what the position of the Mufti is with regard to the Istanbul Convention. We know very well what the position of Synod and other religious communities is, but this does not preclude us from analyzing and presenting our position and having our principled positions accordingly. But when we are chairmen of the Council of Europe and of the high tribune of the National Assembly, such qualifications are made, I think it is extremely unacceptable for you not to take the attitude and make a remark that even if you take away the floor of any Member of the National Assembly, no matter what political power it is from?! At the moment you can see the colleagues from GERB what coalition partners have in general and during the Presidency of the Council of Europe we demonstrate here with the speech of MPs that we do not accept the difference in any way. The differences, rights and freedoms of all must be respected and it is not permissible to make such qualifications on any basis in relation to the distinction of the different people who live within the European Union and outside the European Union. I believe that this should not be allowed, and today I am making you a very serious note. It is not too late to take into account the qualifications that were made by the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. I take your remark as reasonable. Colleagues, please do not use qualifications that are offensive to the Members of the National Assembly and to all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please be more plucked in your speech and show that we really are European citizens. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u42	Madam President, I ask you not to attempt to be called upon to silence the Members of the National Assembly, because in what our representatives of this platform said, there was nothing offensive, there was no qualifications and expressed our position. In a National Assembly, if we are liberal Democrats, even though we are not there, if you are all liberal Democrats, there must be room for everyone. We cannot go out on the stand and speak against our opinion by sending more than 300,000 voters here. You can't go out on the stand and say we have to be removed from power right away because we're fascists and then when they say we're fascists and we're idiots, no one shuts them up, no one makes notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u43	No, I reacted, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u44	Wait, wait, wait! You weren't chairman back then, it's not about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u45	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u46	However, this should also be noted: if you are such liberals, if you are Democrats, there is room for everyone in Bulgaria and as the people have expressed their will, so should the country be ruled. There is nothing to go out and do qualifications: when we are presidents of the European Union, we will keep quiet, and then we will talk. It's a shame to talk at all! In a National Assembly, there are always different opinions in a parliament. Look what happened in Italy and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u47	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Just to clarify: it is not in any case about the Members of the National Assembly being restricted in their speeches, it is simply my request that no offensive qualifications be used. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor.]] There are more speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for a statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Colleagues, I gave you the floor when we finished the speeches. I haven't noticed, Mr. Tsvetanov, which I apologize for. [[Noise and lines.]] He made a statement, but I was not presiding.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u48	Madam President, you look only to the left all the time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u49	He made a statement, but I wasn't presiding at the time. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is good that today the BSP raised again the subject of the Istanbul Convention. Because Bulgarian society is witness to the double face and the double standards applied by BSP. Let me remind you with facts, because I have always said that after BSP, facts should be presented and the truth should be told, and the Bulgarian voters are the ones to say who is right and who is wrong. Honourable Members, this letter from the PES [[shows letter]] is from the Lisbon conference. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] This is your position that you defended, this is where you actively participated. I'll read you what you voted for and what decision you made. [[Noise and lines.]] This means putting pressure on all countries of the European Union and beyond ratifying and implementing the Istanbul Convention in order to combat gender-based violence, which still affects one of three women in the world. This is the statement of the President of the BSP at the PES conference. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] This is the vote of the PES delegates, where BSP is actively involved and have not been against. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues of BSP, do you know this initiative? [[Shows written material.]] It is conducted exactly by your members and sympathizers and your structures across the country. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] This was done exactly during the period when you supported and wanted this convention to be adopted. Here are your initiatives. [[Noise and lines.]] You also made a petition to support the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues from BSP, when do you speak sincerely.? This is not back in the distant years, this is in November and December?! Dear colleagues, from the conclusions you have drawn from the round tables in which you have actively participated, the following is written. Point 2 of the roundtable conclusions: "To launch a process for ratification of the Istanbul Convention." In support of this, there are things written in the newspaper "Word" how the MPs of BSP will initiate the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. [[Shows written material. Loud noise and lines.]] This, honourable Members of the BSP, is from 13 December 2017. Colleagues from BSP, what's going on?! Why is there a gap between what you've talked about so far, what you've been doing since December 15th? What's this change? What did you do? [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to remind you that there is even a parliamentary question from 30 November 2017 by Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, with whom they are asking: "What is going on, when will we adopt the Istanbul Convention? What's taking so long? [[Loud noise, applause and lines.]] What's taking so long? Dear colleagues, of course, we know that Parliament must exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the executive, here is the reply of Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva as a minister, where she writes that: "Everything is done according to the Bulgarian legislation; an expert group is being undertaken and worked. In fact, isn't what you're saying hypocrisy?! [[Noise and lines.]] It's very easy to play with people's fears. [[Partial applause from GERB]] It's very easy to see where the wave is so you can hang yourself. I can tell you that in this regard you are number one. [[Applause]] But you can never be a political force with a clear vision, to be consistent in your actions. If we ask today what the President of the PES, who is the former Chairman of the BSP, thinks, the difference is huge. What do those who have worked towards the development and adoption of this convention think? Here is the MEP, current Vice President Iliana Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u51	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place.]] Yours is the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u52	Colleagues, you have actively participated in what you wanted to be accepted. And because, when you talked about everything that is related to legislation, equality between women and men, honourable colleagues, the Law on Equality of Women and Men was adopted on 15 April 2016 and it is very clearly written here: To develop their personal abilities and to make choices without limitation of social role and gender. Colleagues, this is your main thesis in this debate that you've been holding all along. And just to tell you that you were actively involved and supported this bill, with eight votes of those who were present in the Chamber, because you are not always present in the Chamber when such debates are being held, but you supported it with your votes. This has happened in 2016. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues of BSP, you are so weak with the concept and strategy to destabilize the country, but we understand that this is your right and you cannot do anything else. Because what you are doing today as an organization through your structures is protesting to the Council of Ministers and everything you want to say. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, just a year ago we were involved in a political debate, there were early parliamentary elections. Each of the parliamentary groups, which is represented today by the Bulgarian voters, have received the vote of the voters and have done what we have actually taken as a commitment. We have a coalition agreement with the United Patriarchs, we have a programme and because there were many who were talking about putting a wedge between the ruling majority, I can say that this was not the subject of a debate in our coalition agreement and the programme which was adopted by the Bulgarian government with the parliamentary majority. So, colleagues from BSP, please, when you go out to talk, first remember what you did not years ago, but months back, what behavior you had then and why we come to opposing people, creating conditions for something that will happen in the country that will be scary and harmful. Honourable Members, just to remind you that all Member States have adopted this Convention. Make a difference between ratification and acceptance!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u53	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u54	Make a difference, because we are talking at the moment about the ratification that is postponed because we always respect public opinion, for there must always be a political consensus on things that, in fact, someone deliberately wants to create a division. You do it very well because you do not offer alternatives for management, but you will always be second, and why not some time and third, but you will never be ruling because with this approach you will always be second, [[Applause from GERB and OP]] you are unpredictable, both for our European partners and for the declaration of Euro-Atlantic values on important topics related to NATO and the European Union. Because you also have coalition partners in your group who have different opinions. It's their right. As well as our coalition partners, sometimes they have a different opinion, but we always give priority to the management of the state and Bulgaria is above all else. Do so yourself, and I think you can also have a certain political dividend from such an approach! However, today I would like to congratulate you on your lack of arrogance, no aggressive behaviour, and indeed we have tried to make the facts known, and you have once again unleashed this face that you have since 1 January 2018. But we wanted to remind you of your face during the months of November and December, when you were the main studios and wishing to accept the Istanbul Convention. I don't know what you were doing back then, because these initiatives you were doing with Bulgarian citizens again. These initiatives and this desire to collect the signatures of Bulgarian citizens have been done by you, and today you say that we do not comply with the Bulgarian citizens and that is why you are the ones who have heard the people and are walking in this direction. Dear colleagues, let me just say: today's debate could have been postponed, and if you had been reasonable, you would have postponed the point that you submitted to the Ministry of Justice yesterday, because we all understand that the Council of Ministers at today's meeting will withdraw the Convention...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u55	It's already been downloaded.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u56	...as far as I can tell, she's been pulled out. So from this point of view, you once again wanted to create some conditions for playing with people's fears. No, we will not allow this to happen because you are not offering alternatives, and you can only create the chaos you are seeking today with the organization of what you are doing. Dear colleagues from BSP, a year ago you received about 950 thousand votes, but Bulgarian voters said no to populism, not to those who ruined the state during all these years and participated in the privatisation of CEZ [[Applause from GERB and OP]] , and in fact the state wants to have stability - that is why we have received this support and that is why we will do everything possible to challenge you with facts and arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] - What's the line? Here you go, for a line, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u58	Mr. Tsvetanov, Eyebrows, please, we're friends, and we'll be clear with you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, we had a conversation with you and I warned you that if you continue to lie, I will have the conversation here in plenary. First, when Lazarov proposed to hold a referendum on Bulgaria's stay in the European Union, I suggested adding NATO, but holding a referendum on how to pronounce the Bulgarian people because, when Bulgaria was accepted in the European Union and NATO, there was no referendum, unlike other Eastern European countries. [[Noise, laughter and lines from GERB and OP.]] If you're afraid of referendums, that's another topic. I would just like to remind you that the President of the Czech Republic, who was re-elected, will propose a referendum on the Czech Republic's stay in the European Union. And the Czech Republic as a country, I think it is a little more economically developed and more intelligent, and it is not by chance called the Jews of Europe. Learn from Czechoslovakia, and look what Britain has done. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u59	Second line, guys? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova. Second line, no? Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a second line. - What's the line? We're still on the cue procedure. Wait until the procedure is passed and then. Do we have any lines for Mr. Tsvetanov? I don't see any lines. Hole - Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov, I thank you for this revelation and that you really wanted it to be included in a possible referendum and NATO. Convinced that in this approach of BSP, I do not rule out the possibility to follow the steps of populism in Britain, for Britain's exit from the European Union. I am convinced that this is your goal, that this is your long-term strategy, but I can tell you that all the politicians and all the parties that have participated in the years of transition, the most valuable thing to be for respect, is that they have taken the clear and firm political move to enable our country to be a full member of the European Union and NATO, because this is security and this is a perspective. I understand that the BSP will be moving towards exiting the European Union, because all your political messages over the past few months are only in this direction. Dear colleagues of the BSP, please be sincere to your constituents as well. Explain to them that you want and strive to go to the Eurasian Union, but to get out of the European Union. We will oppose in a democratic way with the support we receive from society and what the Bulgarian public has stated categorically all these years. I would like to thank the Movement for Rights and Freedoms because they are consistent in their policies relating to NATO and the European Union and will not submit to your approach to attract them to your country. Here, of course, I can say that also "Volja" are actually holding a very clear vision of our country's Euro-Atlantic presence in all these alliances and I am convinced that my colleagues from........ are also.................. We are together and we are for a strong and united Europe. Thank you. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] There was a personal explanation for Mrs. Sidorova. I don't understand the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u62	Thank you, Madam President, I am doing you a procedure in the manner of conduct and very correctly closed the debate, and very correctly you should not have given the floor to Mr. Tsvetanov. Ten minutes of speech and three minutes of cue and nothing on the subject. [[Heckling]] Mr. Tsvetanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u63	How... to me, to me, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u64	Madam President, Mr. Tsvetanov took the liberty of continuing the seminar of the Political Party Youth GERB, to tell what BSP was doing, what GERB was doing and not to say anything about it. Madam President, the point we are discussing is the Project for a decision to produce a national referendum. We're talking about production, a referendum. I understand that Mrs. Ninova turns you on a lot and whatever she says. [[noise, laughter and lines from GERB and OP]] You want to answer her right away. Here, you can see it in the hall now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u65	Mr. Svilensky, I don't know if I should make a comment. And I'm confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u66	What bad word did I use?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u67	Don't yell at me later that I missed making a remark about the word "excitement." [[Noise, laughter and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u68	But, Madam President, Mr. Tsvetanov is trying to threaten the Bulgarian citizens who will protest today. I understand you're scared, Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand that you're scared.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u69	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u70	Yeah, the way you run it. And you shouldn't have allowed him to say these things and threaten Bulgarian citizens who will participate in the protest today and will declare against the government of Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u71	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I didn't notice Mr. Tsvetanov threatening anyone. If I had noticed, I would have made a remark. [[Noise and lines.]] One second, Mr. Tsvetanov, Mrs. Sidorova wanted before you, then Mrs. Klisurska and Mrs. Tsvetanov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, Mr. Tsvetanov, you are manipulating people and lying from this tribune! The question that we asked with Mrs Klisurska is available on the Parliament website and you can read it if you decide to read it anyway. And it's specific. Our question to you is: at what stage is the ratification process of the Convention and what is the period you provide for its finalisation? Where's the word slow down, Mr. Tsvetanov? Or is it very easy to make up words and put them in the mouth of other fellow MPs?! It's very nice to speak from this tribune, but speak the truth, speak the truth! [[Noise and lines.]] Don't give me the cards and the pictures, because with the papers and the pictures we won't get anywhere. [[(Voices from BSP About Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u73	Mrs. Klisurska, come on in. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You can only enjoy what approval you enjoy in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Tsvetanov, don't lie and don't manipulate! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] The only idea to ask the question is about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, it was about the country's readiness to change the Bulgarian legislation, about the fight against violence against women, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u75	Eee!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u76	And precisely because the state has no readiness in terms of improving legislation, we wanted to get that answer. Don't manipulate and don't lie! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP and partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, for a personal explanation. [[Heckling]] He had declared it. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, guys, this isn't about your personal explanation. Mr. Tsvetanov asked Mr. Svilensky for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u78	Madam President, I am giving up my personal explanation because I see that my colleagues are very excited. We in Parliament should respect each other, not use such terms! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. A statement said Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Many false suggestions were made by Mr. Tsvetanov, but I won't talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u81	What about Svilensky?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u82	All right, I'll mention just one thing: that in the pictures you were showing, we voted in Lisbon for the Istanbul Convention and that giving me to the stands there represents talking about the Istanbul Convention. We didn't vote there or talk about it, but I turned to the PES. I would turn with the same respect to the EPP and today to you. There I was talking about the mistakes of the political elites in Bulgaria, which are one of the reasons why the European Union is going to the crises it is currently in. And outside the manipulations, Mr. Tsvetanov put some major topics on the future of Bulgaria in the European Union, on Bulgaria's choice of Europe or Eurasia. I would like to talk about this because it is in the context of the Istanbul Convention. You asked: what is the choice of BSP? Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you did not exist either in the court registers or in the political space when BSP filed the documents and ensured Bulgaria's membership in the European Union. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In all the years since we have been a member of the European Union, we have defended European policy. [[Comments from GERB: "This is not on the topic! "]] Your suggestion that we are against Europe will never be accepted. I will tell you directly that you have ruined Bulgaria's great chance to be the European President of the Council of the European Union. You are ruining Bulgaria's European perspective because, since the Presidency began, both Europe and Bulgaria are dealing only with the scandals generated by GERB and the Patriots. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We deal with the fence and corruption there, with the coumgate, with the mayor of September, with the sudjuka, with the Health Insurance Fund, with CEZ, but not with Europe's priorities. [[Strong noise in GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u83	Who makes the scandals?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u84	You violate European values, honourable Members, such as the right to free opinion and free expression of the will of man. Today there is a free and democratic protest against the government of Borisov. And you call this a backstage downfall of the government or whatever it is you call it. You violate a basic European principle for the free will of Bulgarian citizens and their right to express their views on the squares of Bulgaria. You have trampled another European principle by saying that we divide society and hate our position on the Istanbul Convention. And this is the principle of different opinion. And I ask you: if you accuse BSP that it causes hatred and divides society, will you treat this topic to the Bulgarian Patriarch, to the Bulgarian President, to Academician Georgi Markov, to Academician Anton Donchev, to Academician Vodenicharov? Do you want me to spell them out? I congratulate your Georgi Markov and Eyebrows because they have a position! We respect you for being different and standing up for her. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I hope that there will be more and more people in GERB who will respect the different opinion and not point it with their finger and do not call it gads and dark forces that destabilize the country. It's Europe! Europe has been established on this principle.............................................................................................. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you will tell us that BSP is taking Bulgaria away from Europe! Who has trampled fundamental European principles in the last year?! Who brought down the opposition president from this stand?! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Who evicted the vice president for personal opinion?! Who called one of the highest tribunes the darkest forces and gads the 70% of the Bulgarian people?! Is this your Europe, citizens for the European development of Bulgaria?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is this your Europe?! And one big question. Colleagues, we are presidents of Europe. We must work together to look for the future path of Europe. We talked here about Brexit and populism. Yeah, they're in Europe. We see what happened yesterday in Italy. But why? The big question is, why did it come to this? How do we eliminate the causes? The reason is that the political elites of Europe have distanced themselves from their peoples, which you call populism. They locked themselves in their shell, dug themselves into power, held hands left and right for their money and interests. That is why we have brought Europe to this situation! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We therefore insist on a clear ideological boundary between left and right parties and not to make unprincipled coalitions for power and money!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u85	Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u86	Let's argue with arguments. You mentioned CEZ. The role of the state in the economy is such an argument? ideological and political! You don't argue with arguments. You're pointing at differences. You're targeting him! You label it against national security, that it separates society. This is an anti-European label of the face and forehead of Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. We call on you from now on, when we talk about Europe, to return to those values on the basis of which it was created, to see that all politicians of all parties are indebted to our peoples. And there is populism, and there is extremely right, and there is Brexit for that reason. It's not the nations' fault. It's us politicians who are to blame because we left them behind in the name and only for our personal interests! I hope that we will start this discussion about the future of Europe, to remove the reasons why we should give it the prospect of developing what we have created it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u88	A few sentences, dear Mrs. Ninova. If this is your explanation of the crisis in Europe, woe to the Bulgarian Socialist Party and European Socialists!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u89	Bravo, Adash!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u90	That's not the reason, Mrs. Ninova. The reason is that the neoliberal revolution went too far and began to break up society. And people started reacting. What is seen in Austria, in Italy, this Brexit, even Trump, is an expression of conservative counter-revolutionaryism. When the Great French Revolution reached the point of guillotining hundreds of people every day, the Ninth Thermidor came and set things right. This ninth termidor comes and goes to Europe. We're the ninth thermidor, if you don't mind! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u91	Second line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u92	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Ninova! Thank you for your assessments of what is happening in Europe and that populism is really beginning to prevail in many countries. But when we talk about the debate that needs to be held, I think it should be mainly around April - May 2019 when the European elections will be. But first, you in your political family need to answer whether you have a single position, and why in all these parliamentary elections in the Member States the left has suffered such losses?! Because, let's remind your score in Austria, let's remind it in Italy, let's remind it in Germany. I can tell you that you have a big problem with a deficit of trust in the left idea and everything that is called the I can tell you that the European right is therefore strong, because it always stands with a cast face, always solves people's problems and outlines a better perspective for Europe. That's why today it's the lead engine. We saw it in the elections in Germany, and we are already calm, as there is a government that has already been announced. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u94	Mr. Tsvetanov, once again, although a little more polite, you tried to take away our right to have a different opinion from the parties in our political family. This is acceptable for us because we are a democratic Party of European Socialists. [[Noise and shout in GERB and OP.]] Happily, we are no longer alone there. Mr. Fico supported Slovakia's position against the Istanbul Convention. But these are the details. In the name of being united, I will ask you: How will you explain to your partners in the EPP that you are withdrawing the Istanbul Convention and giving it up if you want to be united with them?! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] It's about consistency, but it's not that important. More important is the other question that my colleague has put about neoliberalism, about its exhaustion in Europe, and what should we oppose? Have you finished this model in Europe? Are we going back to social models? In addition to words, will you actually support some solutions to restore justice and correct the mistakes of the liberal model? For example, should we return the state to the Bulgarian economy wisely, marketally, modernly and modernly? You're very strong at fairy tales! Neoliberalism was exhausted. Okay, we agree, but let's see how we're going. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u95	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u96	You're criticizing the liberal, but you're not ready to correct it. You're not ready to offer an alternative. We are not ready to unite to look for this alternative in common, I say again, for the sake of the future of a united Europe! [[Reply of MP Stanislav Stanilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u97	Professor Stanilov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u98	You're not ready to offer an alternative! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u99	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u100	He has the floor for a personal explanation Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Several times there is talk about what I have said, given the dark forces. When I said "dark powers," I meant those who run fake news, those who plant fear and panic in society. No one can and cannot say that I speak against the Church or those who are against the Convention. I think I have proved that I respect all institutions, I respect Bulgarian citizens! I walk amongst people, too, and I know what they think. So I initiated a discussion at Sofia University, for which I thank Professor Gerdjikov for his cooperation, and Mrs. Manolova, who continued the discussion afterwards because you know that we had a vote of no confidence here. More than 130 organizations spoke at this discussion. All opinions are uploaded to the National Assembly website. Such a discussion has never been held before. And I will not allow anyone to try to give suggestions to the Bulgarian citizens on any subject concerning the Istanbul Convention and my speech. Everyone has the right to speak out of this tribune, everyone has the right to speak out. It's democracy!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u102	Only Zablyanov has no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u103	Mr. Popov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u104	It's democracy! That is precisely why, listening to the people's voice, the government today withdrew the Istanbul Convention because there are concerns in society. Debates may and must be to clarify all those doubts that are present in public speaking. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u106	There's a word for it, Professor Stanilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u107	Many times I have urged colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party to look back sometimes, but what Mrs Ninova said from the stand, pointing out the same things as the United patriots, she simply had no place in this debate. Why? Thirteen years of attack, and now in the United Patriarchs is trying to bring the state back with different draft decisions, different proposals for amendments to the legislation and so on and so on. I'm not gonna list everything. We have issued a special book on what the National Assembly has done and all these proposals are reflected in the National Assembly and how all the political parties led by the BSP have voted. Dear Mrs. Ninova, recently there has been an initiative in relation to these ERPs, with CEZ, with sales there, frauds and so on, with which I am not very good at class, but I will tell you this. We have submitted draft laws two or three times, draft decisions to return the state to the electricity distribution companies, to have, to become a shareholder there with 51% state participation and the rest to be shares of citizens and so on and so forth. How did the Bulgarian Socialist Party vote? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How did you vote then? You voted against it, and I'll tell you one more thing. Not only have you voted against, you have always voted against when you are in power and when you are in opposition, you have voted against conservative returns to the state...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u108	Shall we extend the time? Yeah, extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u109	...in economics, in society, and everywhere. Now you're going out, you're taking Ataka's initiatives, I've already counted a few here, you're offering them here because you're in opposition. If God forbid you come to power, I don't know what will happen. I don't know how you're gonna deal with the voters, you're gonna have to push these things through. But you're not gonna push them through, and you're gonna give up. So I ask you one more time, the legacy of the political parties is theirs. It cannot be waved from the stands with other goals... what we have done and offered 13 years. I will remind you of what you did with us in the Triple Coalition, what attacks we had against our leader, and how those who made this attack against him, you invited them respectfully to the National Assembly and accepted them, and here you spit on us, and poured shit on us. Don't you remember that?! Why? It is for this reason that we offered things that were contrary to this totally neoliberal policy of transnational companies, which still rule the world, that govern us. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Popov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Professor Stanilov, books you've published, history you've made, 13 years you've imported, all of a sudden 14th in government and all of a sudden it's history. Well, bring it in now. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Be consistent, not according to your position of opposition or government. Obviously, you're not consistent. Do it now. Read this book again and submit it to the National Assembly to see you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u113	Dear Mr. Professor, I would like to supplement your statement because you are right about the political hypocrisy that the BSP has. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, it is particularly valid on the subject that we are actually discussing today about the Convention. It is especially valid not only because of the facts that Mr. Tsvetanov presented, but also because of the fact that they conveniently forget that it is the United Patriarchs, our ministers, our Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov who first asked the question, was motivated in writing. He stopped by the way texts on gender training, putting them to debate, of course, in the Council of Ministers and receiving the support of his colleagues. This convention did not receive unanimous support in the Council of Ministers, not only because of the ministers of the General Assembly, but also because of the ministers of GERB, who also had doubts for one reason or another whether it should be submitted to the National Assembly. In fact, the topic of values from beginning to end was started and completed by the United Patriarchs and the parasite of BSP in the case was to attach itself when this topic became socially important, to fight in the chest, trying to forget its near-by past 13 years ago. How can they remember 13 years ago, they didn't want to remember what they said two months ago?! That's my cue to you. The hypocrisy of BSP is not only about the theft of ideas. By the way, not a small part of them are currently embedded in the management program and one by one are realized. The theft of political ideas continues and now, including the current debate, is a function of this theft. When they formulated their ridiculous referendum question, they even avoided mentioning the exact name of the Convention because the so-called Istanbul Convention is a term that is legal nothing. What do we really put into a referendum, fellow Members, on what is it called? At least have the courage to write the name of the Convention as it is. I think we owe this to Bulgarian citizens. This is my addition to your statement, Mr. Professor. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Third line? Come in, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Professor, what you've said is true and it's nice to recall these facts, because some politicians nowadays forget everything and think they're the greatest and that they found the hot water yesterday. We heard just a moment ago even the leader of one of the parliamentary groups who mentioned that one kind of created Europe, even the European Union. My line to you is this. I would like to know more from you about the social role of gender in this convention, which the BSP opposes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u116	The weather, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u117	I am finishing, and explain to us the explanation of the social role of gender whether this is what the BSP in the European Parliament is about and here are against. This is the social role of the gender.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u118	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. For the doppelganger, Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u119	Firstly, I do not accept the remark why we are in a coalition with GERB because that is what the Bulgarian people said! That needs to be understood. That's how you discredited the forces in parliament. We did not want there to be extraordinary elections, which would be very harmful and it is very harmful to make permanent choices. And, secondly, we have a coalition agreement in which some of the points in our program are embedded and moving. As for what we offer and what we do not offer specifically for the ERPs, Volen Siderov has submitted a special proposal. There are 34%, the golden action and so on. Read it carefully. What we can do with 27 MPs, we do, and you, who couldn't win the election, envy us for doing so, I think. As far as I'm concerned, what was it, Julian? I do not recognise the social role of the genders. I recognise the biological role of gender. I do not recognise the social assessment of society and that it can be manipulated as some kind of wet clay and be modeled as it falls. The Creator has said what society should be and how it should evolve. This programme, which has been set up in society since its creation, to be divided into races, to be divided into ethnicities, to form countries, national empires and so on, and so on, cannot be broken and declared that we are all equal, we are all the same, we will all live in a world state and become the same. That can't happen because the Creator didn't see it coming, you'll see! That's why Mrs Merkel says the multiculturalism has failed. Only she doesn't know what to replace him with, that's the thing. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u120	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. There's a personal explanation before that, Mr. Rashidov. Will you make a personal explanation, Mr. Rashidov, or not? Are you giving up? You want a statement? Let's give procedure in the manner of conduct and after that statement, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the procedure in the manner of leading you, Madam President, is because the debate has little to do with the item on the agenda. We have been listening for an hour here to political-historic, party and all kinds of reviews, debate on the geopolitical orientation of Bulgaria, debate on the crisis of liberal democracy and whatnot. Please, it is your duty to direct the debate to the point, and it is: A draft decision for holding a referendum. If there is anyone to say for or against arguments on this project, say, if not, you must take the floor and follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u123	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Twice my name has been mentioned, I wouldn't be speaking because I don't see what a debate is about, which is closed - just an hour ago everything has been withdrawn, but I don't know why you're fighting. The first thing I want to say is this. My attitude towards the Istanbul Convention has made it clear that GERB is a democratic party, I have not abused anything and no one has abused me to make me take common decisions. Secondly, instead of congratulating the government in the face of Borisov, because this was kind of a referendum in which we checked whether the Bulgarian people accepted or not adopted a decision of the European Union. Yes, at the moment when the Bulgarian people split, Borisov withdrew this decision. It's very simple. We just have to congratulate him for doing it. Apparently he complied with the decision and thinking of the Bulgarians. What's there to spit on now - an hour to check and spit on this one, the one when it's done. To my friend Sasho, not to renew the referendums because, Sashe, I remember - at the time they wanted closure of the BCP and BSP, not to take a referendum to close the BSP and take it to pass. So shut up now, don't take yourself seriously. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Colleagues, this debate is definitely over. Don't get excited again. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Is there any line to Mr. Rashidov's statement? There are no lines. Personal explanation Mr. Pawnov, come in. You can make your own personal explanation for coffee, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u125	He told me Sachet, so I recognized myself. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u126	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u127	Brows, you know that we are friends, you know that we respect each other, but I want to tell you that you are not a member of GERB and that does not mean that GERB is a democratic party. [[Laughter, livening in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are a civil quota, as I am a coalition partner and my opinion and opinion does not affect the BSP. This is the opinion of the Communist Party of Bulgaria. Because he's a good populist, Mr. Tsvetanov always knows how to mix things up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u128	He doesn't understand them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u129	No, he understands them, he understands them, the man is prepared. [[Noise and raging in the hall.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, to you, I help Mr. Lazarov, when he wants to make a referendum, to ask the Bulgarian people whether to stay Bulgaria in the European Union. We didn't say we were against it. We want to ask the people, and I added 'cause I voted against NATO when it was voted in this Parliament that it is not bad to add, and so money will be spent on both the European Union and NATO. There is nothing wrong with referendums, but you seem to be afraid of referendums. What, what's wrong with this whole thing?! I have not voted against any referendum, but I have voted against NATO, against the American bases in Bulgaria, against the war in Iraq, against the closure of the Third and Fourth Block of the NPP, and even those who voted for our troops to be sent to Iraq, Obama acknowledged the error. Everything I voted for, history will confirm it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Any other speeches, colleagues? There are no other speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm closing the debate. I read to you: Project! DECISION for holding a national referendum The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 5 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Takes a decision to hold a National referendum on the following issue of voting: "Are you opposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria ratifying the so-called Istanbul Convention of 11 May 2011?" Please vote. They voted 211 MPs: for 67, against 121, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. [[Big part of the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are leaving the hall.]] Negative vote please, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because I have no intention of participating in BSP's election campaign for the European elections. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm sorry you're going to have to think about a new topic now, and there's another year until then. [[Noise and lines.]] I was very happy to hear from you here, from this tribune, how disappointed you were that the government today withdrew the Istanbul Convention and now you will have to come up with new topics, and this is harder because it was very easy to get baptized for two months, jumped there at the feet and the Russian Patriarch, you went from Marxism to some protection of Christian values, which I welcome if it is sincere. In my opinion, however, it is not sincere and today's debate has shown it. You wanted to do PR with very serious values and very serious things. That is why I have said before: I respect the opinion of the Orthodox Church, I respect the opinions of non-beliefs, but I do not respect your opinion, because it is conjunctural, it has nothing to do with what you are talking about. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Second negative vote please, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Democrats, it was very important foreign opinion and you of the BSP defended the right to European speaking and the right to foreign opinion in Europe! Why did you leave the room so demonically? Why? Because there's a double standard in politics. And you, fellow Members of the BSP, are supporters of the double standard of politics. I voted against it because just two months ago, the double standard in politics required the BSP to roam villages and palanquins, collect signatures and support the Istanbul Convention. Just days ago, there was a sharp opposition between the President of the PES, between Vice President Mrs. Yotova and BSP. Why? Because of the double standard and the lack of orientation where the public wave is. Finally, I voted against it with the clear awareness that the BSP never wanted to hear the voice of the people. As two years ago they underestimated the referendum and the vote of nearly three million Bulgarian citizens, and today they used the item on the agenda only and only for populistic talk, for nothing else!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Will there be a third vote? Third negative vote please, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the holding of this meaningless referendum because you see what this is about. Populism is over and in this House the most remains of the ruling Party GERB and of the Party Volja.Now to do the black work, to adopt laws that benefit the people. That is why, colleagues, today you have been marked.I understand some of the colleagues who want to refer now to this wave in Europe, which bays and sweeps the bay and sweeps the bay, and sweeps because you are doing just such meaningless things two hours of meaningless debates, without any benefit to the Bulgarian society! That's all we've noticed for a year. In all the shows in which I come, I ask journalists who are engaged in public life coverage: Do you notice one thing that the parties that have done during this time can boast about the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state? They're silent because they have nothing to say but these pointless scandals that we already don't think they're starting to be negotiated. On the one hand, I am talking between the government and the opposition, that the BSP shout senselessly in order to lead an opposition party in front of the people, on the other hand, that nothing should follow neither for the people nor for the government, because everyone knows that it is pointless. Once again, we call on you: these meaningless debates, these meaningless circuses, this senseless theater here we are not actors, but MPs, get down to the ground and start working for the people! Thank you very much. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking a procedure in the way Mr. Mareshki's been led.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u138	It has to be to me, Mr. Christov. It has to be to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u139	Yeah, yeah, yeah. That wasn't a negative vote. They keep pouring insults, reheating old meals. I didn't hear a negative vote. Once again, charges against BSP. [[(Replys:]] How, of course?! In which normal parliament is such a debate being held? There was no debate. There wasn't a negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u140	Thank you, dear Lord Christov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda. It relates to: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTITUTION ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 9 FEVRUARS 2018 RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYING No 47 OF 21 FEVRUARS 2018 OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE TANK. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. It's point two of the program today. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 47 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 21 February 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018 and the reasons to the Decree. At its meeting held on 28 February 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 47 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 21 February 2018, for a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018 and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by: from the Corporate Commercial Bank, announced in bankruptcy Mr. Angel Donov and Mrs. Kristi Marinova Syndicates, and Mr. Alexander Katsarov an employee; from BTC EAD: Mrs. Dorina Kozopoulou. The chairman of the commission Mr. Danail Kirilov reported the President's statement and the reasons for it, stating that on the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018, exercising his constitutional right to veto the provisions of § 5, § 6 and § 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Bankruptcy. In his motives, the President states that every law contains rules of conduct which, in order to be respected by the addressees, must act in the future. It is noted that part of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy have retroactive effect, apply to facts which occurred before the entry of the Law on Amendment and Supplement in force and govern legal facts that have already had legal effects. The reasoning is emphasised on the provision of § 5, para. 1 declaring as minor deletions of collateral set up by debtors or third parties in favour of a Corporate Commercial Bank carried out by the Quaestors, the temporary and permanent syndics of that bank. Attention is paid to the scope of the norm, which covers the period from the placing of the bank under special supervision "20 June 2014' until the start of cashing out of the property. Thus, the nullity, as the most severe legal penalty for the validity of the deletions, is given retroactive effect. It is also noted that § 5, para. 3 settles a period of time during which the time limits expired in respect of all collateral established for the benefit of the Corporate Commercial Bank, and under § 6 a relative invalidity of transactions involving the subject of the transfer of shares or shares carried out by debtors of the Corporate Commercial Bank shall be introduced after the bank has been placed under special supervision. The reasons stress that the new rules on nullity and relative invalidity apply to legal facts that have already occurred and affect rights acquired or obligations repaid. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Yordan Tsonev, Dimitar Lazarov, Daniel Kirilov, Todor Baychev, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. Mr. Hamid Hamid pointed out that he would not support the Decree and added that the retroactive action of the norms is a legal option set out in art. 14 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the He added that the amendments and additions to the Law on Bankruptcy are not a sanction of their nature and the prohibition of retroactive action in the hypothesis of art. 14, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts finds no application. Mr. Yordan Tsonev noted that taking into account the President's Decree and the reasons for it, as an importer requested information from the Minister of Finance concerning data on transactions that would fall within the scope of the rules of the presidential veto. He added that the retroactive action of part of the norms is justified given the significant public interest by stating that the value of the deleted collateral in favour of the Corporate Commercial Bank in bankruptcy is 233 147 298 BGN, the material interest of the intercepts amounts to BGN 1 174 252 811 and the number of legal proceedings is 205. People's representatives Filip Popov, Todor Baychev and Krum Zarkov expressed their support for the Decree and the reasons put forward against the adoption of the Law, stressing that the adoption of the bill will lead to negative consequences, legal and political uncertainty, which will lead to deterioration of the investment climate. Danail Kirilov noted that the case surrounding the Corporate Commercial Bank in bankruptcy began at the time of the Forty-second National Assembly and the insolvency proceedings itself aimed at determining the date of default of a previous point of application, with the proceedings also distinguished by the specific cancellations which they have as their object a declaration of nullity of legal transactions which damage the property of the debtors and thus the mass of insolvency. Mr. Donov noted that the bill should be re-adopted in order to fill the bankruptcy table with 1.4 billion. lv. He added that rejecting the Law would be a signal to the debtors of the bank who do not wish to recover the funds taken. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Bankruptcy Act, 7 votes against the National Assembly on 9 February 2018, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Bankruptcy Act, adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018 be read again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, with Decree No 47, the Head of State has returned the adopted bill for amendment and supplement to the Bankruptcy Act. After meeting the motives, we have repeatedly had the opportunity to express our disagreement with them. First of all, however, I would like to note how the Head of State's motives begin. It shares and supports the aim of the importers of the Bill. This support is important to us. The Head of State further points out, however, that these funds must be achieved by constitutional means. Here we want to express our disagreement with this argument. The funds, the way and the texts we have applied, we believe that they are constitutionally responsible and in harmony with all Bulgarian legislation, including the special text that regulates the adoption of texts with retroactive action. One of the major remarks in the reasoning is that we are taking back texts, or so-called "retroactive action." This action, colleagues, is governed by the Law on Legislative Acts, art. 14, as in para. 3 of the same article the legislator has indicated when texts with retroactive action cannot be used. We believe that we are not in this hypothesis, so we are in agreement with the Law on Legislative Acts and with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We also disagree with the other arguments referred to in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, as part of the President's considerations, saying that society must know the specific dimensions of the effects of the adopted Law. Even then we agreed with this argumentation and Mr. Yordan Tsonev asked the Minister of Finance and received the necessary information, so we will present it to the MPs and the public. And in that sense, we will grant the Head of State's request. I hope that all MPs will support the Bill because there is a huge, significant public and state interest and the exclusion for retroactive action should be implemented. Thank you for the time being.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Any lines to Mr. Hamid's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I respect the opinion of the importers, but I cannot agree with the reasons they have provided with regard to the Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. The bill presented by them, unfortunately, does not fill in gaps in the Banking insolvency Act, as is the purpose of the importers. On the contrary, I believe that it is rather contrary to Article. 1, para. 1 of the Constitution, proclaiming the founding constitutional model for Bulgaria "the principle of the rule of law." It is noted that the proposed changes violate legal certainty, predictability and stability of the legal order. Yes, here I appeal to the importers: we do have an interest in the banking insolvency proceedings to have a broader state intervention and a greater security, but this should be by constitutional means achieved and not as it is at the moment, and therefore the Head of State has an objection to some of the transitional and final provisions of the adopted Law. They are rearranged with retroactive action, in violation of the rule of law, legal consequences, rights acquired and liabilities repaid. Paragraph 5 shall declare as minor removals of collateral established by debtors or third parties in favour of a Corporate Commercial Bank carried out by the Quaestors, temporary and permanent insolvencys of that bank. This covers the period from putting the bank under special supervision until the start of cashing in, the Head of State said. Thus, the nullity, as the most severe legal penalty for the validity of the deletions, is applied retroactively. According to § 5, para. 3, again for a past period of time, the time limits expired in respect of all collateral established in favour of CCBs. As far as it is clear that if any transactions were carried out for a fraudulent purpose, and under the current legislation, they can be attacked and declared invalid from the point of view of the interested parties, namely the Corporate Commercial Bank and its Syndicates, in the present case. Of course, the proposed Bill ignores completely one circumstance found by the court, namely that after 20 June 2014, the moment of placing CCB under special supervision, the entire responsibility for the preservation of the assets and assets of the bank is the BNB in the face of the Quaestors and the Deposit Guarantee Fund of the banks, after the appointment of Syndicates from them. And here I would like to read you a statement of the Syndicate of Corporate Commercial Bank JSC in bankruptcy, which is on the website of KTB of 4 November 2016, namely: In conclusion, about our activities and the claim that employees of Sofia City Court have been appointed to work at KTB in insolvency, it should be borne in mind that we have only aimed at creating to the maximum extent a team of professionals to work in the bank. In this regard, we have requested from the President of the Court Mr. Kaloyan Topalov, assisting in the recruitment of former members of the judiciary in bankruptcy with a view to their qualification and experience, i.e. some qualified, capable people, smart people, will not add to the pretty ones. In this case, however, what is it about? We are talking about a normal law in force and about appointed, notice, by the state people who have made decisions that the importers of the Bill do not like at this time. And what they have done or have not done is not an excuse for the retroactivity of a law, and therefore the constitutionality of such a text is problematic. If the proposed changes are adopted, it will be possible to require a disruption of transactions between private companies in the protection of public and public interest. However, this will be a warning signal to investors. If this is accepted, any investor would seriously think whether to buy some asset in Bulgaria. The rest of the problems that this bill is trying to solve are due to the actions of people appointed by the state and therefore I do not see why a law should be written, and the state can simply instruct them what to do or respectively what not to do. I don't see much sense in making this additional law. I think the mechanisms available are enough for that. Let's also comment on retroactivity. Legalists refer to the Constitutional Court's practice, according to which, in order to have a retroactive effect, there must be enough severe circumstances to justify it, inability to restore any situation and only apply when emergency or emergency measures are in place. What is required by these emergency measures three and a half years after the Bank's bankruptcy at the moment? Nothing at all! In order to raise the mass of insolvency is speed, that is, once the bankruptcy has been declared, it is necessary to proceed immediately to filling the table of insolvency. If something like this didn't happen, three and a half years later, I don't see how it's gonna work out. Paragraph 6 introduces a relative invalidity of transactions involving the subject of the transfer of shares or shares carried out by the debtors of the Corporate Commercial Bank after placing the bank under special supervision. As the Corporate Commercial Bank was placed under such supervision on 20 June 2014, this rule also had retroactive effect. That paragraph violates the principle of predictability, the resulting legal certainty and stability, as it declares invalid legal acts and transactions which, at the time they were carried out, were, however, genuine. Paragraph 7 shall also apply retroactively to the insolvency proceedings opened until the entry into force of this law. In this way, nullity and relative invalidity shall apply only to deletions, as well as to transfers of shares and shares which comply with the legislation in force at the time of their implementation. Thus, the Law adopted concerns rights acquired or already repaid. To recall that the date of the bank's bankruptcy is 6 November 2014, that is, the transfers between July and November are not covered by this provision, and I ask myself: why are these transfers, these deletions better than the following? In other words, however, if a company is a borrower of a Bulgarian bank, it must immediately enforce all its transactions with shares and shares of anything, because there is always a risk that the bank will be bankrupt. The rules of paragraphs 6 and 7 of the proposed bill also violate another component of the rule of law..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those rules declare that legal actions have been null and void in the past, bring back the effect and allow the renewal of collateral repaid by prejudice to the rights which third parties acquired on the subject of transactions that were real at the time of the execution and the collateral. In conclusion, I can say the following: the purpose of importers may be legitimate, but is not supported by the correct legal rules. Instead of seeking common rules of protection, this law is reduced to an individual regulation aimed only at one bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Do we have any lines to Mr. Baychev's statement? I don't see any lines. Colleagues, considering it's 11:30, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. The debates will continue after the break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's get back to work. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try without unnecessary emotions to comment on the veto imposed by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy. This is the third bill, which aims to ensure that the syndics, respectively the creditors, get a fair cashout of the property so that the bankruptcy mass can be completed to the maximum extent. I recall that at the end of 2014 at the Legislature of the Forty- Third National Assembly and at the very beginning of that National Assembly, we adopted two amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy so as to respond to the challenge of this case, which arises for the first time in the course of this law, that is to say, the first case of real implementation in the legal life of the provisions of the Law on Bankruptcy. With these two amendments, although we had no doubt that the rules of both the Law on Bankruptcy and the rules of the Commercial Law on the general insolvency of traders contained strict rules so that debtors and creditors could not enter into agreements such agreements as to damage the mass of insolvency, or to rearrange creditors under their right to obtain their deducted satisfaction from the remaining assets of the declared debtor. However, the practice of so-called transfers of claims from creditors of the bank to debtors of the bank was widely spread back then. In this way, there was a process of satisfaction of the rights of some of the entitled, outside the strictly normalised insolvency proceedings. Yes, it is undoubtedly for all lawyers, it is undoubtedly for a large part of both the audience and traders that these are unacceptable agreements that they will be one way or another attacked. Alas and unfortunately, it has come to the current bill tabled by colleagues, using the concept of second-rate looting of KTB's assets. I will not comment on whether this is secondary, or is part of a major extension of the primary looting of capital. I will not comment on the notion of looting, for the reason that we remain strictly in the legal language of this proceedings. The insolvency proceedings, as well as the Constitutional Court, have had numerous occasions to rule on this matter, are particularly forced proceedings. It is particularly executive, it has both substantive rules and procedural rules. The very logic and philosophy of the specific insolvency proceedings is such that it often returns the dates, returns the time, and this return takes place according to the specific, special purpose of the proceedings to ensure the cashing of the property and filling in the mass of the insolvency. Such a case is the determination of the date of insolvency. This is also a legal fact that, perhaps in a conversational manner, has the opposite effect. Yes, it returns the chronogram, returns very far back in time, to the moment when the irreversible deficit in the company's property really occurred so that it could not continue its commercial activity. Another such instrument and institute, which is initially laid down in the philosophy of insolvency proceedings, are the annulment claims which should cancel the damage to the assets of the insolvency debtor, the apparent transactions, those concluded with the special purpose to prevent creditors from receiving satisfaction. There are several types of claims. Once again, the Constitutional Court had the opportunity to think about which of them could have been reversed, which should not be allowed. However, I share the principles of the Constitutional Court, which confirms that in this proceedings justice must dominate the justice of satisfaction and non-violence. I had prepared several quotes from the Constitutional Court's ruling on Constitutional Case No 12 of 2013, but I will not read them. Particularly interesting and precise is the decision of the Constitutional Court, including interpreted with the particular opinions attached to it. For this reason, it is my belief that we have proposed a principled solution that would confirm the procedural possibility of the court, not the parties, the parties have already acted, the parties have also acted through In 2014, and in 2015, no, this is the case: the court may consider the claims of the Syndicate. That is to say: to preserve the status of the wrongly deleted collateral. You know that this is particularly important in terms of the company's assets in bankruptcy, as well as in terms of satisfying creditors' rights. In this regard, I support that part of the President's motives, where it is objectively and fairly recognised that the legislator has the constitutional right to resolve the issue of the law in time. I believe that in this bill, as in the previous two, no constitutional principles have been violated, no preferential rights have been created, on the contrary they have been removed, and the possibility that legal effect may continue to have damaging agreements, those that have damaged and continue to damage bankruptcy property is removed. I thank my fellow importers for being able to commit accurate data on the three issues that have been discussed even in the debate on the adoption of the basic law. These numbers are particularly eloquent, but I do not support the presidential veto here, regardless of these numbers. I think the importers will confirm and repeat them. Regardless of these numbers, we have the right to eliminate the unfair consequences, those who took away a huge part of the bankruptcy table, those who compromise the efforts of the Syndicates to successfully complete the insolvency proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, my line is short and it is provoked both by the applause you received at your speech, so by one word, and it is a. I will not enter into disputes about constitutionality, there are arguments in both directions, but that is exactly what the President returns to those three paragraphs that do not fit into the idea of a principle solution, as they are aimed at a particular entity. I mean, it's not about principle. It is a question of the President, and he noted that this is an exception in the National Assembly to rule on a specific case. It is necessary to think whether there are reasons to do it or not, but it is not in principle this decision. Proof that it is not in principle is that tomorrow, God forbid, if there is such a case, it will be decided by the general rules of the Bankruptcy Act and not by the three paragraphs which have been returned from the president's veto. In other words, I question your definition of this bill in its part, which has been returned by the President as a general decision. It's an Adhok solution. This is a solution in particular and we can only hope that its consequences will be those which importers defend. We hope that there will be no others, as previous decisions show that, in practice, when the legislator intervenes specifically in a particular case, it creates more problems than it solves.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u151	Thank you. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In principle, Mr. Kirilov is right. Yes, the legislator and the Supreme Court of Cassation generally support and allow retroactivity. This is also allowed in the Constitution, but let us still refer to art. 14 of the Law on Legislative Acts, where the opposite effect of a regulation can be given only by exception, and by explicit provision. However, this requirement of legislative technique has not been complied with in this law and there is no explicit provision for transmitting the reverse action. The law referred to in Paragraph 8 also applies to insolvency proceedings opened prior to its entry into force is an action in relation to existing relationships, which is different from the reverse action. We therefore have principled differences and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u153	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm gonna have a short cut of my ass. Regarding Mr. Krum Zarkov's line, I will say this. Is it a fact that the bankruptcy proceedings of KTB have not yet been completed? Is this a certified case? It's a closed case. Colleague Baichev tried to continue the logic I will develop with regard to your question. It was the same if instead of the CCB we had recorded the welded industries. It is the same. It is no accident that I pointed out the Constitutional Court's ruling on constitutional case No 12 of 2013 because they very precisely distinguish the hypotheses of law enforcement against the welded proceedings and those that are counterproductive. Yeah, we have multiple legal standards. Indeed. Some of them are substantive, some are procedural. I wouldn't go into interpretation specifically on how to interpret the norm in terms of collateral as legal or substantive? In any event, the Constitutional Court agrees that in these cases a legal situation has changed, in which, however, the legal consequences have not yet finally occurred. And they didn't occur because they didn't complete the bankruptcy proceedings. If a thorn in the eye is the use of the only and specific... and God forbid to remain the only specific production under this law, yes, it could be replaced by the higher industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Before I give the floor for other speeches, I will read: DECISION of the Council of Ministers No 139 of 7 March 2018 concerning the withdrawal of a bill On the basis of art. 87, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers HAS DECIDED 1. The draft law on a proposal to the National Assembly for ratification of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011 and signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 21 April 2016, approved by Decision No 17 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. 2. Repeal of Decision No 17 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 approving the Bill. Prime Minister: Boyko Borisov. We are continuing the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm surprised I just walked into the room and started the debate, but my colleagues on the left are gone. They're gone because they're not at work, they're actually in front of the Council of Ministers, scratching at power. Using their rhetoric for the stairs and for the fence, I am surprised that the MPs of BSP do not wear stairs to scratch the windows of the Council of Ministers. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u157	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u158	It is on the subject, colleagues, because I have questions about the subject of your missing MPs. My question is this. I've been asking it for a month and I don't get an answer: what is the relationship between BSP and BSP MPs with KTB? On the subject. I use to ask on the topic: Is Mrs. Yoncheva a partner with the offshore girl, Dayley trading, 50/50? Is it 315 thousand? lv. versus $5,000. lv. Mrs. Yoncheva's? Where does that money come from? The one authorized by Zornitsa Bluskova to represent the offshore company is Georgi Georgiev's partner in the company "Investment Projects" which a company, according to the reports of "Alix partners" has drained more than 42 million. lv. From KTB. Do these drained money have anything to do with the money that Mrs. Yoncheva received from the offshore company Daily Trading? I've been asking and not getting an answer for months. I ask: is there a connection, is there no connection? Last time I noticed that Mrs. Yoncheva was not in the Chamber to vote on this bill. Is this due to the fact that I ask again, I do not claim to her concern that she is in conflict of interest under this law? She's not at the law vote again today. I'm asking, colleagues, and I'm not getting an answer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A line? Mr. Zarkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u160	Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you with a procedure in the manner of conduct to express my outrage of the way in which this important debate is being held, which concerns a huge subject and veto of the President of the Republic. The debate, Mr. Chairman, even though there's a KTB in it, it's not who was doing what at KTB, it's for the president's veto. This, on the one hand. Secondly, honourable Mr. President, the MPs have no reason to ask questions to other MPs from this tribune. There are institutions where this needs to be done. And for everything to be clear, Mr. President, please remind the honourable gentlemen and ladies of the National Assembly, who are from GERB, that you claim that Elena Yoncheva has drained KTB, is the greatest absurdity that is said in this National Assembly and difficult even you will do something more absurd than that. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Dear Mr. Zarkov, as you can see, I strive tolerantly and attentively to listen to everyone. I really think that we should all participate in this debate because it is important and I expect the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to join us in this House as soon as possible to continue the debate. Thank you. The way you're holding Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It's your attitude, Mr. Chairman. I apologize, but important topics are being raised here, it is still a vote, the president has vetoed a law that excites society, and on the left we do not see MPs. I guess they don't care about that. My colleague Mr. Dobrev raised very valid questions regarding the draining of KTB, and there are no answers because on the left our colleagues are gone. Aren't you interested, colleagues, in what the president has imposed?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u163	Turn to me, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u164	I remember in 2014 you said that we should be in the gym because this is where we work. Then where are you? That's what I'm asking: where are you? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "We are here"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I have already made my request to the Members of the BSP to join us in the Chamber to continue the discussions. Again, in the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not abuse the procedures, only that, Mr. Chairman, from this place you suggest almost to the Bulgarian people that BSP does not go to work. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] No matter how much you point in that direction, people remember what you did 2013 - 2014. A little shame you should have, a little eye to look at people. To the call, Mr. Chairman, to come BSP to the hall, perhaps you would like us to come with the protesters outside? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u167	Mr. Gokov, this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u168	Mr. Chairman, if that's what you're calling for, let's call for them to come from the protest here before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u169	Mr. Gokov, you are inciting and predisposing to riots.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u170	No, you encourage and predispose, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u171	You're causing a riot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u172	You're inciting, Mr. Chairman, and you're insinuating to people something that isn't true, Mr. Chairman. You don't have the honor of doing it from the stands, three times. Otherwise, I wouldn't have allowed myself to become a procedure in the manner of conduct. It's not normal, Mr. Chairman, and take note of this job.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u173	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I'm not going to answer you for reasons that can be explained. Is there anyone else in the way of conduct? I won't. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u174	Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to the vote. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2018. Vote 169 MPs: 129 against 40 abstentions. [[Applause from GERB.]] The Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act has been re-accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of its receipt, according to art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017, adopted at the first vote on 6 October 2017. Who's gonna give us the report? Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u175	Mr. President, before we begin on this report, I am proposing admission to this House. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister of the Interior, Evgeni Evgeniev Director of the Department of Finance Intelligence. Konstantin Shalamanov Head of the Department of Legal and Normal Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u176	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tzipov, Mr. Evgenyev and Mr. Shalamanov to enter the room. Please continue with the presentation, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u177	On 22 August 2017, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 6 October 2017. The second vote is on the draft. The Commission notes that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u178	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u179	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u180	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u181	"Department I. Subject matter, objectives and scope." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u182	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The laundering of money within the meaning of this Law, when carried out intentionally, shall be: 1. the conversion or transfer of property with the knowledge that such property is acquired from a criminal activity or from an act of participation in such activity in order to conceal or conceal the unlawful origin of the property or to assist a person involved in such action in order to avoid the legal consequences of the act of that person; 2. the concealment or concealment of the nature, source, location, location, movement, rights with regard to or ownership of property, with the knowledge that such property has been acquired by criminal activity or by an act of participation in such activity; 3. the acquisition, possession, holding or use of property with knowledge at the time of receipt that it has been acquired from criminal activity or from an act of participation in such activity; 4. participation in any of the actions under point 4. 1 "3 ', the association for the purpose of carrying out such an action, the attempt to carry out such an action, as well as the assistance, incitement, facilitating or giving advice in the conduct of such an action, or its cover-up. (2) Money laundering is also available when the activity from which the property under para. 1 was carried out in another Member State or in a third country and did not fall under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u184	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for art. 1 which is supported by the Commission. The second text, which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 2. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, as in t. 7 the words "Chapter One, Section I" shall be replaced by "Section II" of this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u186	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, the fight against money laundering is also the commitment of the Bulgarian state, not just our European partners. Even when we discussed this Draft at second reading, we were told that this was the transposition of a European directive. You know that the European directives are mostly transposed in the form and manner in which they must comply with our legislation, so they should not literally be transferred and translated, sometimes with extremely bad translation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 I especially expected the working group to find an option in which to reduce the administrative burden on those objects, which will be further described in art. 4 which must collect the relevant information, carry out these actions under prevention measures for use in one system, as recorded in art. 3. We are impressed that, here, this has been commented and during the Commission meeting, there were dozens of opinions in this direction that the administrative burden has been increased precisely on companies dealing with this type of activity. In practice, the services described in paragraph 1. 8, they will receive one final product, and here remains the big question mark.... exactly what will they do? We have never learned in the course of the discussion, nor in other discussions in previous periods under the previous law, which we are now canceling with the now receiving person what has done exactly how many cases there are of money laundering, how effective the system is now, see, by transferring the administrative burden on those entities that will be read in art. Four, things are gonna get better. People had rightly submitted their views in this direction that they were practically inundated with additional document turnover and with additional verification of their customers, which would inevitably create difficulties both in the work of the legal entities themselves and their customers themselves. We were waiting for the working group to propose a better option that would actually meet these expectations of these legal entities, which would be burdened with such an administrative burden. This does not in any way correspond to the claims of both the government and the ruling majority that the administrative burden on the Bulgarian companies should be reduced, in this case, and foreign companies, because they are described here, including political parties, and so on. I think the purpose of this law is to actually fight money laundering, not to load companies with extremely serious document turnover, customer checks and so on. I think that was, is also within the scope of the activities of the services themselves, of the Ministry of Interior, which should actually implement this law. I don't understand why it's left in this version and what needs to happen from now on, how are we going to wait for these people to retrain themselves? Are they going to become part of the service? What's supposed to happen? That's our question, and that's our misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3 with the proposed replacement in t. 7 of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 77, none against, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u189	"Department II" "Obligible entities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u190	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u191	Under art. 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3, p. 1. The Bulgarian National Bank and the credit institutions operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act; 2. other payment service providers within the meaning of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and their representatives; 3. financial institutions within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act; 4. the exchange offices; 5. insurance, reinsurance and insurance intermediaries established in the Republic of Bulgaria who have been authorised under the terms and conditions of the Insurance Code when operating under one or more of the insurance classes of Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; insurance, reinsurance and insurance intermediaries who have been authorised in another Member State, or other country of the European Economic Area Contracting Party operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria when operating under one or more of the insurance classes of Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; insurance and reinsurance undertakings having their registered office in countries other than the Member State or country of the European Economic Area Agreement authorised by the Financial Supervision Commission to operate in the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch when carrying out one or more of the insurance classes of Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; 6. leasing enterprises; 7. postal operators licensed to carry out postal transfers under the Postal Services Act; 8. investment firms; 9. collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings; 10. management companies and alternative investment fund managers; 11. pension insurance companies with the exception of their activities in the management of supplementary compulsory pension insurance funds; 12. registered auditors; 13. persons who provide accounting services and/or consultancy in the field of taxation; 14. notaries and assistant notaries of replacement; 15. persons engaged in legal consultations where: (a) assist or participate in the planning or execution of an operation, transaction or other legal or factual action of a client concerning: (aa) purchase or sale of real estate or transfer of an enterprise to a trader; (bb) management of funds, financial instruments or other assets; (c) the opening, management or disposal of a bank account, a savings account or a financial instrument account; (d) the acquisition of funds for the establishment of a legal person or other legal entity, the increase in the capital of a commercial company, the granting of a loan or any other form of acquisition of funds to carry out the activities of a legal person or other legal entity; (e) establishment, registration, organisation or management of trust, trader or other legal entity, or other legal entity; (fe) trust management of property, including trusts, trust funds and other similar foreign legal entities established and existing under the law of jurisdictions allowing such forms of trust ownership; (b) act on behalf of and/or on behalf of their client in any financial operation; (c) act on behalf of and/or on behalf of their client in any transaction with immovable property; (d) provide a management address, correspondence address, office and/or other similar services for the purposes of registration and/or the functioning of a legal person or other legal entity; 16. persons who provide by profession: (a) address of management, address of correspondence, office and/or other similar services for the purposes of registration and/or operation of a legal person or other legal entity; (b) establishment, registration, organisation and/or management services of a trader or other legal person or other legal entity; (c) trust management services of property or of a person referred to in point (b) (including: (aa) carrying out the post or organising the performance by another person of the post of Director, Secretary, Partner or other similar position in a legal person or other legal entity; (bb) carrying out the post or organising the performance by another person of the position of the trusted owner in the case of trusts, trust funds and other similar foreign legal entities established and existing under the law of jurisdictions allowing such forms of trust ownership; (c) carrying out the job or organising the performance by another person of the post of nominal shareholder in a third foreign legal person or other legal entity other than a company whose shares are traded on a regulated market subject to disclosure requirements in accordance with European Union law or equivalent international standards; 17. private judicial contractors and assistant private judicial contractors; 18. persons engaged in mediation in real estate transactions; 19. Wholesalers; 20. arms, oil and petroleum products traders; 21. the organizers of gambling; 22. the privatization authorities; 23. the persons organizing the award of public contracts; 24. Ministers and mayors of municipalities at the conclusion of concession contracts; 25. legal persons to whom there are mutual cases; 26. persons who provide a money loan against betting on property; 27. professional unions and word organizations; 28. Non-profit legal entities; 29. professional sports clubs; 30. market operators and/or regulated markets; 31. the central depositary and other depository institutions which operate to register financial instruments and transfer such instruments through the opening and keeping of accounts of their issuers and/or holders; 32. political parties; 33. the bodies of the National Revenue Agency; 34. the customs authorities; 35. The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency as a national administrator within the meaning of Commission Regulation (EU) No 389/2013 of 2 May 2013 establishing a Union Registry pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Decisions No 280/2004/EC and No 406/2009/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Commission Regulations (EU) No 920/2010 and (EU) No 1193/2011 (OB, L 122/1 of 3 May 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u192	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to draw attention to art. 4 t. 28 of the Bill, namely for non-profit legal entities referred to as one of the debtors. This requires the application by non-profit legal entities of a number of measures aimed at preventing money laundering listed in art. 3, p. 1 to 6 of the Law. Although such obligations also exist in the current law, I find this legislative solution unjustified and ultimately leading to difficulties in carrying out the activities of these organisations. My arguments in this direction are as follows. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that treats non-profit legal entities as high-risk and obliges them to take measures equally with financial institutions and other debtors. The publicly available information shows that so far there has not been a single case of money laundering or financing of terrorism by a non-profit legal entity in Bulgaria. I would even extend that these individuals in 99% of cases do not generate absolutely no movement in their accounts except the own membership imports they collect. The obligations proposed to fulfil all categories of non-profit legal entities are an unjustified administrative and financial burden which will affect the citizens' desire to exercise their right to association and, for existing civil organisations, could also become a reason for ending their activities. I appeal to this: non-profit legal entities to be excluded from the category of debtors under the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u194	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members on the left! As with the previous proposal of colleague Ivanov, now and on your own, Mr. Baychev, I would say that during the debates and work of the working group such proposals have not been made. I can say that we have fully complied with the directive No 849 of 2013. In this direction, I think that the proposals you are making now in this House would be right for you to do them in the working group or between first and second readings to see them. I therefore believe that you have no grounds for the proposal you have made in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u196	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. A hole, Mr. Baichev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making the editorial amendment point 28 drop.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u198	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote Mr. Baychev's proposal an editorial amendment for dropping the item. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u199	This is not an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u200	It's a correction. Please, voting mode. Vote 87 MPs: 17 against 64, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the version which the Commission proposes in the text of art. 4. Vote 81 MPs: 69 against 9, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u202	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer for art. 5 which is supported by the Commission; the second is the text of the Commission for art. 6 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u203	Under art. 7 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to ensure effective implementation of the measures under this law and the rules for its implementation by their branches and subsidiaries in third countries, including the exchange of information for the purposes of art. Art. 57, Art. 80, para. 3 to the extent that the legislation of the third country allows. (2) Where the legislation of the third country does not permit or restrict the application of the measures under this law and its implementing rules, the persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to inform the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the National Security Agency and the relevant supervisory authority, to take additional measures in accordance with the risk that are determined by the rules of application of the law and to follow the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authorities under art. 45 paragraph 6 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ L 141/73 of 5 June 2015).), hereinafter referred to as "Directive (EU) The Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security may issue instructions for taking other additional measures in accordance with the risk, including termination of business relations and termination of activities in the third country. (3) The persons referred to in art. 4 ensure effective implementation by their branches registered in the territory of other Member States of the national provisions of those Member States implementing the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u204	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 7. Vote 81 MPs: 70, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u205	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, and in it the word "the points' shall be replaced by "the points' and the words "of the European Parliament and of the Council' shall be deleted from 20 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u206	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I will put two texts to the vote: the first text is the text of the importer for art. 8 which is supported by the Commission, the second text is the text of the importer for art. 9 with the proposal for replacement, which the Commission shall do in the text of art. 9. Vote 78 MPs: 64, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u207	"Chapter 2" is a complex check. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. General rules for the implementation of the measures for a complex check. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u208	Thank you. Statements? There's no statement. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, which shall be supported by the Commission and the text of the importer on the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u209	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Under art. 11 A proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bachev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: Art. 11 out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 apply the measures for complex customer verification in: 1. establishing a business relationship, including when opening an account, where opening the account establishes a business relationship; 2. carrying out a random operation or concluding a random transaction of a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of EUR 15 000 or their equivalent in another currency, whether the operation or transaction is carried out through one operation or through several related operations; 3. carrying out a random operation or concluding a random transaction of a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of EUR 5 000 or their equivalent in another currency, where the payment is made in cash, whether the operation or transaction is carried out through one operation or through several related operations; 4. carrying out a random operation or concluding a random transaction which constitutes a transfer of funds under art. 3, p. 9 of Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006 (OB, L 141/1 of 5 June 2015)), at a value equal to or above the equivalent of EUR 1 000 or their equivalent in another currency. (2) Where, due to the nature of the accidental operation or transaction, its value cannot be determined at the time of its execution, the measures for complex customer verification shall be applied no later than when the value of the operation or transaction is determined if it is equal or exceeds: 1. the remaining equivalent of EUR 15 000 or their equivalent in another currency regardless of the way the payment is made and whether the operation or transaction is carried out through one operation or through several related operations; 2. the remaining equivalent of EUR 5 000 or their equivalent in another currency where the payment is made in cash, whether the operation or transaction is carried out through one operation or through several related operations. (3) The cases under para. 2 do not exclude the obligation to apply the measures for complex checking of the client under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1. (4) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 shall not apply the measures for complex verification, but shall take appropriate risk-based measures to monitor operations and transactions with a view to fulfilling their obligations under Articles 47, 72, 76 and 98 and their obligations under the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. (5) When under the conditions of art. 98, para. 4 and 5 a higher risk is identified, the persons under para. 4 in addition to the measures under para. 4 shall apply the following measures and may comply with the volume and extent of their application with the identified risk: 1. apply clear internal order and procedures including the definition of activities, internal rules of accountability, control and distribution of functions in the organization, verification of key employees for the presence of negative public information or possible coincidence with persons under art. 4b of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, procedures for granting funds, full control of the used bank accounts and financial instruments, monitoring the activities of branches or related non-profit legal entities; 2. apply control or cooperation procedures with partner organisations, documenting in writing the responsibilities, receiving feedback on the use of resources and resources and ensuring knowledge by the partner organisations of the beneficiaries of their activities through the measures referred to in points 3, 4 and 5; 3. identify donors and beneficiaries by collecting as complete information as possible, allowing uniform identification, including with regard to persons exercising control, without significantly hindering the organisation's activities, and may, where necessary, use the methods and means of complex verification; 4. store all funds received and allocate funds to beneficiaries through the use of persons under art. 4 t. 1 - 3 and 7 - 10, where this does not significantly impede the organisation's activities; 5. check the donors and beneficiaries, partner non-profit entities for the presence of negative public information or possible coincidence with persons under art. 4b of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. (6) In the cases under para. 4 and 5 persons shall document the actions taken and if some of the measures under para. cannot be implemented. 5 points 3 and 4 shall state the reasons for this and shall keep the information collected for a period of 5 years. (7) When the measures under para. 4 and 5 are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of this law, the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u210	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! And at first reading, and second reading, the same thing. Today, honourable Members, I have a feeling that we are dealing with another law, not the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, but we are writing a new bond law, a new Law on Obligations and Contracts. What are we doing? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 we enter the concept of a random deal. In addition, we read that an accidental transaction is something that goes beyond established business relations and under the blows of this article will fall the companies that make random transactions. What does this mean outside the framework of the main business relations? No one could explain it to me. How am I supposed to understand that? That this week, if I shop at Cafland, and the next week I go, like, to another trade chain, it becomes a random deal? Or, for example, the gentleman sent the wife to pay her bill, she bought an electricity distribution company. Is this a random deal? Why are we making up new terms? What are we doing today? What are we doing? I asked a few times about a random deal. And no one can explain why we're introducing the term "a random deal." In practice, anyone who carries out a random transaction outside of here that is recorded in points 2 and 3 falls immediately within the scope of the Law and will check it for money laundering. In the end, this leads to an extremely high dose of subjectiveism in judgment, because who will decide what it means outside of established business relations. Who's judging this thing? In previous paragraphs, we have said that an extremely serious administrative burden is being passed on to the institutions themselves, i.e. legal persons operating with funds. Are they gonna set up this random deal, or are the services gonna set up this random deal? I ask again: what does an accidental deal mean, and what does it mean outside of established business relations? Is that what I said to go pay a bill, and instead of paying your electric bill, buy an electricity distribution company? Right? It means that as soon as this law is passed today, the services must go immediately and start checking this thing out, and whether this will happen is a separate matter. My concern is that a very sturdy and serious control mechanism is being introduced for various businesses, for their smashing, for their exploitation in a certain way. An accidental deal.. and nowhere is there a description of who determines what is a random deal and when we have a random deal. Excuse me, colleagues, but within the meaning of this law, if you go tomorrow and buy a car in a car dealership above the specified amount, and you enter into an accidental transaction. Maybe that's how I understand it? I don't know why we have to write a new chapter of bond law today. The Law on Obligations and Contracts clearly states what legal transactions are: unilateral, bilateral, multilateral, legal transactions between live and for death, legal transactions providing property benefits, retribution and grant transactions, management and transactions of disposal, cause, abstract transactions, consensual and real transactions, principal and dependent transactions, fiduciar transactions. Where's the random deal? What part of bond law is that thing? What are we doing today? Change the subject of the Law and become a Change of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. This really throws us into shock, frankly, and I expected our proposal to actually be taken into account. Because there is no way to show with businesses when they go beyond their established business relations. Who's judging this thing? And on top of that, additional aggravation is offered, additional administrative burden on this article outside of this accidental transaction. Indeed, someone should sit down and explain and really agree and support our proposal to drop this article. You yourselves do not realize to date what a random deal means. There's no reasonable explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u212	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, let us respect the colleagues who worked in the expert group, all non-governmental organizations and all institutions that had a bearing on clearing the texts in the original version of the Law. I will be very clear, I will not go into this tone that you have demonstrated here from the parliamentary tribune. The proposal to drop out of art. 11 of the Bill cannot be supported by the fact that the provision of art. 11 has been transposed by Directive EU 849/2015, which requires States to ensure that mandatory entities apply the measures for complex customer checks to the hypotheses referred to in that Article. Departure of art. 11 of the Bill will lead to a gap in the legal framework of the complex verification, as the main hypotheses under which the complex verification measures are applied will not be settled. The same will lead to ambiguity. With regard to random transactions or occasional transactions, as you said, the Bill fully follows the requirements of the definition of Directive 849/2015. The requirement for random transactions is also part of the current Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Please, let us actually have the opportunity, and you, as Commissioner, to meet each other. A few days ago, I addressed you to read, let us clear all the texts that the working group made during all these months, because between first and second reading the bill was discussed four months. Here are your answers from all interested parties. [[Shows them.]] I have to tell you that they all supported what we did as an opportunity to correct the texts and not have any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u214	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u215	My line is to Mr. Ivanov because it's really unclear. My request is Mr. Ivanov to show us exactly which bill has the definition of an accidental transaction.......... an accidental operation.....................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u216	That's the one!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u217	Colleagues, it is not normal for us to transpose everything that is happening in Europe and European legislation without making clear the effect on Bulgarian citizens. If the goal is repression, if the goal.. as the internal minister tries in a scandalous way to ask for information about who the members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party are, and here also to try by law to repress certain businesses, which do not obey the political will of GERB, well, I understand this is your bill. However, colleagues, there really is no definition of what a random operation means, a random deal and my request, Mr. Ivanov, is to clarify here what bill this definition is, because I do not believe that colleagues from GERB so blindly transpose European legislation. Or everything that is from Europe, you see, is good, whether it harms Bulgarian businesses, they do not care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u218	In the same bill, Drago!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u219	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Third line, please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I apologize for interfering with your matter, but you have raised a question trying to present it as principled. Therefore, my question is: what does an occasional transport under the Road Transport Act mean? What is the meaning of an incident transaction, a concept that is widely used in our trade law and in our tax legislation. It is clear what this is about and from the arguments of the negotiators I remained with the right belief that the definition works. And what would it mean to exclude accidental transactions outside the scope of the Law? Let's have 10, 20, 30 accidentally created LTDs, just to make one or two random deals. Isn't that going to bypass the entire regulatory regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u221	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, we did not accidentally make this proposal because we believe that in this version the text has a vice that cannot be sanitized. I think it was also the job of the task force to find a working option that would be generally acceptable to everyone. I think it is not the opposition's job to do this thing and to run it, after all, you are the chairman of this committee. Mr. Stoynev, I immediately tell you: because in the Additional provisions of the Law they really have done their best.......................................................................... 20 that an accidental operation or transaction is any operation or transaction related to the activity of a person under art. 4 which is carried out outside the framework of established business relations. What does it mean outside the framework of established business relations? Mr. Kirilov told you about an accidental deal, I ask again: was it a casual deal that a lady, instead of paying for her electricity, went to buy a company? Why wasn't it checked when it was a random deal? [[GERB lines.]] Why didn't the NSA check it and report it to the Prime Minister and he said he didn't know?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u223	It's for a rally.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u224	It's not for a rally, it's for here, Mr. Tsvetanov, because you are currently adopting a new law that will practically legitimize arbitrariness. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u225	Please don't come in... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u226	Very precise and clear must be defined, because this is not a definition "outside the framework of established business relations"! Who's gonna establish this thing? Who's the organ that's going to do this thing in practice? That's the question. At some point it turns out that certain transactions are not accidental transactions, then it will turn out that other transactions are accidental. You understand how wide the door is and anyone can walk through it. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] There's no such thing. At the moment, this text opens a wide door for abuse and pressure! That was very nicely said by Mr. Stoinev and I agree with him, although he replicated me. That's the truth. No way, I'm telling you the text has a vice that will hardly be sanitized, it can't be sanitized. Therefore, the most sensible solution at the moment is to vote against this text and then with changes to find a way if you really want to cover some transactions that you consider questionable. But not in this way, colleagues, not in this way, because an extremely large dose of double standard appears. If it's in the old law, why hasn't anyone been working on it? Now we're entering the new law. It seems to be working, but God knows what direction, so I'm asking. And there is no mention of who will judge which deal is random and which is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u227	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? I won't. We continue to vote on the texts. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 10, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 81 against 22 abstentions. That proposal is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the people...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u228	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. President, I am doing a procedure in the manner of holding. When you see in the Chamber that the opposition doubts the correctness of a particular definition, the ruling majority does not have the capacity to explain what it is about [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] , my request is for you to invite me to see Deputy Minister Tzipov, who is a former colleague of ours, a lawyer, when there is such a tension, which very easily, honourable Mr. President, can be cleared if, for example, the Ministry of Interior comes out and explain the exact definition of the so-called random transactions....................................................................... I ask you very much that in such situations you invite guests to come here for a reason and invite them to participate, there is nothing wrong with convincing us of their rightness, so that no unnecessary tension is created. I believe that this is the normal, democratic way to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u231	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Procedure, Mr. Lazarov? I follow the reactions of all three guests very carefully, Mr. Stoinev. I did not see a sign from Mr. Tzipov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u232	Invite them in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u233	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u234	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Do not allow, very much, such abuse of the right of Members of the National Assembly who have not read the Law.............................................................................................. Your colleague read you the explanation. At any ignorance or misunderstanding of certain texts by some MPs here to become almost at the Radino School, I ask you very much, Mr. Chairman! If they don't know what Radino school is, they should start reading under the yoke by Ivan Vazov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u235	We only read Winnetou!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u236	If the colleagues had participated in the task force, because here, apart from Mr. Tzipov, there are... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u237	Please don't enter into this dialogue, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u238	Colleagues, if they had participated in the task force, which was four months, would have understood. If for everyone who doesn't understand here starts reading lectures, excuse me, we'll become a daycare here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u239	Lazarov, explain what it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u240	You are once again entering an unacceptable dialogue. Please, Mr. Stoinev. Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, I would ask that, when Members of Parliament speak from the stand, especially on such an important bill, they give a competent opinion. They come out here, it's not enough that they don't explain what they mean in this bill, obviously involved in the task force, they can't explain what a random deal means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u242	You should have come to a task force!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u243	...and who will control this random deal, come and find the mahná of the opposition! Silence means that there is indeed a serious problem! When they come out here, invite them to actually say something about it, not explain who went to which school, because we seriously doubt who went to which school. I guess we go to different schools. It became clear that thing. I'm really asking you to get people on the stand who can give a competent opinion on this matter. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, but I don't find myself in this procedure. We continue with the vote. Mr. Tzipov, you want to speak? Mr. Tzipov, just to remind you that we are in a voting procedure, the MPs are currently in a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u245	Let's make it clear to them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u246	Mr. Tzipov could explain at any time after that. DRAGOMIR STOINEV [[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Abort the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u247	I think he's already taken the attitude up to this point. Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Please. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, which is not supported by...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u248	It's outrageous what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u249	Mr. Stoynev, please do not disturb the order of the Chamber with the resulting consequences. I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct after the vote is completed. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: 21, against 84, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 11. Vote 108 MPs: 84, against 23, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, your way of conducting this part of the bill is outrageous. It is not normal when under Mr. Tsvetanov's dictation alone, you perform his whims, who should have the right, when to vote and who to explain. Indeed, colleagues, I am outraged and mostly at you, Mr. Chairman. We of the opposition have asked for something quite simple to explain exactly what a random deal means and who controls these random transactions. What's wrong with that? None of the government could explain it and Mr. Tzipov, who is a respected lawyer, asked his opinion as Deputy Minister of the Interior, he expressed his desire to come to the stand and say his opinion. You interrupted the debate because Mr. Tsvetanov ordered you to do what should we do, and now, what's the point of Mr. Tzipov coming out and explaining it?! After all, we are a parliamentary republic and the most normal thing is if you do not respect the opposition at least respect the Bulgarian voters. We, despite the vote, even though you once again push and crush on the side of strength, because it is very easy, when you are many, to crush, not to give other people's opinion, to impose your will and then to wonder why there is such a confrontation. We wanted, without any confrontation, Mr. Tzipov to come out and explain, it already depends on whether we will accept whether or not we will accept his arguments. After all, the Council of Ministers is the importer. That's what we want. When you wonder why there is a confrontation there is a confrontation because you in your desire to please Mr. Tsvetanov really do, because he is a person, and he makes mistakes, right, Mr. Tsvetanov? At the moment, you made another mistake to lower the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u251	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u252	You're being led by this mind. You are Vice-President of the National Assembly. Please. Come on, the first among equals is sitting in the front row, I see he's having a lot of fun. You are second among the equal, so please very much enter into your duties and be fair, and respect all MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u253	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I have always sought to be fair and respect all MPs. I think you can't deny it. Regarding Mr. Tzipov's wish to speak, you understand that I should not interrupt the voting procedure, and you know very well that I followed the Rules. Furthermore, I am convinced that, when the Law is debated, Mr. Tzipov has given enough clarification about art. 11, which we just voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u254	Then why are we inviting him? What are we doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u255	We will continue, and if you have any questions, please ask them at a time when there are debates, when there are debates, and not after. In this case, it appears that you are prompting me to violate the Rules of Procedure in the interest that is not in the interest of the National Assembly. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is not true! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u256	That concludes my explanation. Thank you. Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u257	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13, as in para. 4, the words the entry into force shall be replaced by the issuing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u258	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for art. 12, which is supported by the Commission. The second text is the text of the importer for art. 13 with the replacement proposed by the Commission for the text of para. 4. Vote 94 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 16. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u259	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, in which the word "size' is replaced by "size'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u260	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for art. 14, with the proposed replacement in it by the Commission. The second text is the text of the importer for art. 15 which is supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 76, against 5, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u261	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 keep up-to-date information about their clients and their operations and transactions, periodically reviewing and updating, where necessary, the supported databases and client files. (2) Data bases and customer records for customers and business relationships with potentially higher risk shall be reviewed and updated at shorter periods. (3) If necessary, the update of the information shall be verified and additional actions shall be carried out to identify and verify the identification in accordance with the requirements of that law and its implementing rules where: 1. an operation has been carried out or a transaction has been concluded at a value other than that of the customer; 2. there is a significant change in the way the open account is used or in the way certain transactions or transactions are carried out; 3. on the face under art. 4 it has become known that the information available to an existing customer is insufficient for the purpose of applying the complex verification measures; 4. on the face under art. 4 it has become known that there has been a change in the circumstances established by applying the measures under art. 10, as regards the client.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u262	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 16. Vote 95 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u263	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) In cases where the person under art. 4 shall not meet the requirements for a complex check under art. 10, t. It must refuse the operation or transaction or the establishment of a business relationship, including the opening of an account. (2) In cases of already established business relationships in which the person under art. 4 shall not meet the requirements for a complex check under art. 10, it is bound to end this relationship. (3) In cases where the person under art. 4 t. 5 shall not meet the requirements for a complex check under art. 19, it is obliged to refuse the operation or transaction or the conclusion of the insurance contract and, in the case of already established business relationships, to terminate them. (4) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply from: 1. The Bulgarian National Bank when carrying out transactions with foreign currencies when applying them is contrary to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank; 2. the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 17 when their application is contrary to the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors; 3. the authorities of the National Revenue Agency where their application is contrary to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (5) In the cases under para. 4 persons referred to in Article 1. 4 evaluates whether to notify the Directorate of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency "National Security" according to art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u264	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 17. They voted 93 MPs: 76 against 9, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u265	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. Section II - Specific rules and exceptions in the implementation of the measures for a complex inspection. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19, as in para. 1, t. 2 words under art. 4 t. 5 are required to collect... is collected........................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, as in the text before t. 1 after the word "the following', the following shall be added "the cumulative'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u266	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for art. 18, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 78 against 7, abstention 13. Sustained. The following text is the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 78 against 4, abstention 10. The offer is accepted. I put four texts to the vote. The first text is of the importer of art. 19, with the replacement which the Commission proposes............................................................................................. 4 t. Art. 5 and art. 19th para. 1, t. 2. The second text is of the importer for art. 20 which is adopted by the Commission. The third text is of the importer for art. 21, which is supported by the Commission. And the next text is the importer for art. 21 with the added words 22, before t. 1. We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 77 against 7, abstention 12. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u267	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, as in para. 1 and 2 the words "Article 15' shall be replaced by "Article 17'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u268	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 23 with the replacement proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u269	Under art. 24 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, t. 2, b. ............................................................................... 3 and does not support it in t. 2, b. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. (b) a comma shall be placed after the word "Currency" and added to the "Currency" in case the payment instrument cannot be used outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Electronic money issuers and their representatives shall apply the measures for complex customer verification in respect of electronic money where: 1. the payment instrument is rechargeable or has a maximum monthly limit of payments on transactions above the left-hand equivalent of EUR 250 or their equivalent in another currency, which may also be used abroad; or 2. the maximum electronically stored amount exceeds the remaining equivalent of EUR 250 or their equivalent in another currency, or 3. the payment instrument shall be used for other purposes than the purchase of goods or services; or 4. the payment instrument may be powered by anonymous electronic money, or 5. upon redemption in cash or withdrawal in cash of the monetary value of the electronic money, the refund amount shall exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 100 or their equivalent in another currency. (2) Outside the cases under para. 1 e-money issuers and their representatives may not apply all measures under art. 10, t. 3. (3) In any case, e-money issuers and their representatives shall be obliged to carry out appropriate monitoring of operations, transactions and business relationships, enabling the disclosure of suspicious transactions, transactions and clients, as well as of operations and transactions under art. 47. (4) Alinei 1 and 2 shall not exclude the application of the measures for complex verification in situations of higher risk defined in accordance with art. 95 and when based on a risk analysis in accordance with art. 98 situations cannot be defined as low risk. (5) Measures with regard to higher risk situations concerning transactions and transactions in electronic money may also be determined as a result of the national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing and as a result of guidelines, decisions or documents adopted by European Union institutions in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/849. (6) The arrangements for implementing the measures under para. 5 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u270	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote first the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov in the unsupported part, namely. 2, b. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. They voted 93 MPs: 19 against 71, abstention 3. The proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs in the unsupported part of the project. 2, b. It is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 24. They voted 99 MPs: 92, none, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u271	"Department III" A simplified complex check. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 may apply according to the assessment of potential risk under Chapter 7 measures for simplified complex customer verification under conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (2) For the implementation of simplified complex verification measures under this section, approval shall be required by a senior management officer of the person under art. 4. (3) The simplified complex customer verification shall require the application of all measures for complex verification in compliance with the extent and volume of their application with the level of risk by applying one or more of the following measures: 1. collecting the necessary data for identification of the natural person according to art. 53, para. 2 which have been verified in accordance with Article 2. 55, para. 1 (whether or not a copy of the identity document has been removed); 2. verification of the identification during or after establishment of business relationships in the presence of risk mitigation conditions; 3. compliance with the frequency of identification and verification of identification against existing clients with the level of risk; 4. compliance with the frequency of current monitoring with the level of risk; 5. establishing the purpose and nature of the business relationship based on the available data on the client's operations and the type of relationship with the client, or the limitations of the particular product or service; 6. acceptance of the established origin of the client's funds in the event of sufficient circumstantial indications of the origin of the funds; 7. other risk-based measures specified in the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authorities under art. 17 of Directive (EU) 2015/849, under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) The measures under para. 3, p. 7 may only be applied by the persons referred to in Article 7. 4 t. 1 "6" and 8 "11" if no other explicit instructions have been issued by the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency "National Security."..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-07.u272	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer on the name of Section III, which is supported by the Commission; the second text is the version which the Commission proposes in the text of Article III. 25. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 18. The offer is accepted. With this proposal, let's finish for today. Before closing the meeting, the next meeting starts at 9.00 on 8 March 2018 according to the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
