ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: MAINTENANCE OF THE PROJECT OF A DECISION TO VOICE THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISCO BORIS IN THE SECURITY POLICY. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! Please vote on a procedure for admission in Mrs. Monica Panayotova's room.. Deputy Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Angel Popov. Deputy Minister of Interior, Krasimir Parvanov. Deputy Minister of Energy, Amelia Geseva... Deputy Minister of Culture, and Anatoly Velichkov Deputy Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u3	Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I personally have nothing against Mrs. Monica Panayotova, but we are voting a vote of no confidence in the government, Monica Panayotova will enter and Boyko Borisov is gone! She's not normal! I suggest that we do the opposite to invite Borisov specifically, and Monica, if she wants to go in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u5	You may not know, Mr. Kutev, that the Prime Minister is in Brussels, but we will contact him. [[Radio.]] Please vote for admission. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll wait, colleagues, so you can all vote. We're waiting for everyone to vote. There are problems in the voting room. Vote 233 MPs: 142, against 69, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Ministers to the Chamber. Mr. Mareshki, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, the reverse procedure of the procedure to invite the Deputy Ministers is not to be invited, not to invite anyone else, so let us not abuse. When someone abuses rights, make a remark to them and observe the Rules. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, I'm going to read Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Votes mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in security policy. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy! I'll wait. Look at the system, there are problems with the vote! Have all the colleagues been able to vote? We're still waiting. Vote 235 MPs: for 104, against 131, no abstentions. [[Applause from GERB.]] The proposal is not adopted, as it requires an absolute majority of 121 MPs who voted for. The vote failed. [[People from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the hall. Noise and lines.]] For a negative vote, Mr. Mareshki, please come in. Perhaps you should wait for the movement of your colleagues to stop. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please step out of the room quickly if you decide to leave if you don't, take your seats! Now I'm gonna have to ask for silence in this room. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a negative vote. First negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, if I have to explain the negative vote of our parliamentary group in a few words, I will tell you: The only result you achieved the other day was that you've downgraded the institution's low rating anyway. As you have already understood, our group did quite useful things for people on the same day, so we are different in this room because we are not and will not be infected by empty speaking, lobbying and corruption. My business card for 30 years has been the action, the good results in the interest of the people. That's what our band is like. I am glad that at last BSP saw it and are convinced that the only ones who can do the work are me and Volya. I understand that the other day a socialist MP welcomed our action in Varna with the filling of the holes in the Montenegrin village, where we helped the most famous robbed man in the country. He said that Mareshki after the holes and help for the man must go to deal with the security of prisons, bring order to customs, health care and so on. That's right, colleagues from BSP! [[Noise and lines.]] He's got it right! [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When Volya gets the opportunity to prove himself in the government, of course we will prove ourselves in all areas of Bulgaria's life! We will also arrange the chaos in the education you have made and because of which we are picking bitter fruits today, such as the florists, where our secretaries order our gums, write "President" with "tsk"! These are the results of your famous reforms for years! People vote for you! They give you their trust! Then they trust their future, and what do they get? Corruption, cartels, misery, humiliation... [[People's representative Veselin Mareshki speaks on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Thank you, time's up! Thank you. You will have the opportunity, if you wish, to make a political declaration. I made a commitment that I would be extremely accurate over time, so I thank you. Second negative vote, Mr. Siderov. Let's finish with the negative vote procedures, finish with the negative vote, and then... Here you go, Mr. Siderov. Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u10	Thank you, Madam President. By the way, the voting boards are very bad, they don't work. We have to change the whole system because sometimes we can't vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you know that I usually hesitate when there are no-confidence votes. This time I was adamant because not only did there not have any arguments, they could have tried by BSP to give a slightly more serious and thorough argument, but besides that there were no arguments on their part, there were counter-arguments, so to speak, internationally. We were Presidents of the Council of the European Union and had no opinion from our guests, our partners, which was negative. Everyone spoke and repeated that Bulgaria is stable, that at the moment it is a factor that plays a role of stabilizer in the region, in the region and we have heard only praises for our government in this regard. We have also heard very good words about border security from leaders of individual countries, from prime ministers who came on site to see how we are guarding Europe's border, so to speak today about a security collapse, it is indeed a fictional argument, but the opposition is in its right to vote, to want, to try, to try, only that we need more professionalism. Higher ridges, masters, as Salinger used to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Third negative vote, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u12	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers! The topic of security is a topic on which we should really look for a broad debate. But when populist motives are made, when they do not serve national interests, but only close parties, this means that populism may be the greatest threat to national security as well. When there are debates, there should be essentially proposals, there should be deficits, but there should be alternatives. I would just like to say that with the efforts made by the Bulgarian government, it was able to get again not only the high assessment of which Volen Siderov, of the European Presidency, said, but also the systemic approach to returning the trust in the law enforcement system after the destruction that BSP has left 2013 - 2014. We already have the new report of the State Department on human trafficking. What the Oresharski cabinet has achieved to send us to a second group under special surveillance with countries such as Bolivia, Antigua, Gabon, Guinea, Cambodia, Congo, and BSP, do you want to return us there again? Just to say that with the State Department's report, what is written: the government has demonstrated significant efforts compared to the transitional reporting period. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is precisely why we are putting Bulgaria back into the second group. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, we have found this place that we deserve, and this place that we were from 2001 to 2013. We are now once again grateful for the efforts made by this particular Council of Ministers, with the efforts made by this very parliamentary majority to support legislative so that they can do their job. Colleagues of BSP, you cannot be an alternative to today's government!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u13	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u14	And on the subject of Security, this is just ridiculous. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u15	Thank you. Thanks for being punctual. [[The Ministers shall leave the Chamber. The MPs from GERB and the United Patriarchs are standing up and clapping for a long time. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's thank our colleagues from the Council of Ministers and wish them a good job. Colleagues, take your seats. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It would be nice if this enthusiasm were demonstrated by the Bulgarian citizens who protest while we applaud. There were three negative vote procedures, which were, in essence, declarations. Madam President, the fact that these people hid from the debate the other day and didn't want to talk about it. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and it took them more time to prepare, does not mean they can afford to violate the Rules of the National Assembly. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I didn't notice you being very prepared for the debate. The way you're holding Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u18	Dear Madam President, once again you allow yourself to make comments from where you are. You're called here to lead the debate. If you wish to make any comments, your place is here, on this stand, so that we can answer you, and not from this perhaps the greatest democratic place you can make comments and give your opinion. That's not your job! Your job is, when you have your own personal or party opinion, to come out here, on the stand, motivate him and protect him. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u19	Thanks for the remark, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I have requested a procedure in the manner of conduct because it is constantly being abused, constantly with political statements in the form of procedural requests in the manner of conduct. I remind you that the procedure in the manner of conduct is addressed to you, that is, it is a reproach to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u21	That's what we did.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u22	Where you consider that the procedure is unfounded, in addition to the answer, please apply the part of the responsibility of the Members of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 156 and the next of our rules. On the day yesterday, the Vice-President referred several times to art. 156. I appeal: from now on, in cases where plenary time is wasted, political statements are masked or abused in any way by the procedure in the manner of conduct, please apply the responsibility under art. 156 at least in the first three points a reminder, a remark, a reprimand and, if not, a fourth point a take of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT THE SUNDAY VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING IN 2018 Who's going to brief us on the motives and the draft decision? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, according to art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the Parliament and the MPs shall rest from 1 to 31 August each year. However, the Rules have provided for a special hypothesis in which we can decide that our holidays will be changed or cancelled. Today, we face precisely such a hypothesis. It's not just a whim, it's a necessity. The lives of our fellow countrymen with disabilities have become heavier and more unbearable, and in the last few years the system has been unable to continue working. That's why they came here in T-shirts, according to which this system kills them. Their patience is exhausted and we can find it every day when we go out and enter here. The government and parliament are the institutions responsible for implementing the policies for people with disabilities and, respectively, they are responsible for both inaction and the wrong decisions that have led us to this. For a month and more in front of the building of the National Assembly is organized a protest of the organizations of the mothers of children with disabilities, which raises demands for urgent measures in politics. This protest is not only not diminishing, it is spreading across the country. And it is not only the mothers with disabilities who are assigned to it all people with disabilities, as well as our numerous citizens who are sensitive to this topic. These protests won't go away, and if in this environment, while mothers, children and people with disabilities sit in tents, we go on vacation, that would, to put it mildly, be an act of insolence. We have no right to let that happen. Moreover, there are already draft laws and various solutions that can contribute to improving their situation. They're complicated, sometimes conflicting. They require time and concentration. Time that never reaches parliament, busy with all sorts of other things. Now we have this time, and if it has to be August, it has to be August! If we decide to work in August to give once and for all a solution to this painful problem, then we have some minimal dose of chance that our parliament will not remain in history with its constant scandals, but with something valuable and useful to our fellow citizens. The people with disabilities are all of us, ladies and gentlemen, so let us show them attitude and let us work in August! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Zarkov, perhaps you should have read the Project for a decision. [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] Okay, I'll read it later. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Kutev, come in. [[A group of MPs from GERB and "United Patriarchs" are discussing to the side of the banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u26	Colleagues, what I think requires the National Assembly to work in August so that we can achieve what, unfortunately... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u27	Mr. Kutev, hold on. Colleagues, please take your seats and have order in this room! Please take your seats. Colleagues from the United Patriarchs, Mr. Siderov! Colleagues, Mr. Siderov, take your seats. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u28	Thank you. What do we have to do in August? First of all, we've already discussed that the Ministry is currently working on at least two bills. As far as I know, Maya Manolova's third one will be brought to the National Assembly. It does not, of course, have a legislative initiative, so it will only submit it for proposals. Maya's bill is ready. Two months ago, there was a bill prepared called for people with disabilities, which I think is a wrong name, but that is another matter. The most important of all these three bills is the Social Services Act, which according to the plan, written by GERB in the first government of Borisov, should have been written, ready and adopted in 2016. That is, this law is known and worked on long enough. For a year and a half already since this National Assembly worked, the first conversation with Labour Minister Biser Petkov, which I held as chairman of the Commission under this law, was in April last year. Since then, a year and three months have passed since Minister Biser Petkov made the commitment to work on this law and to do so as quickly as possible. A year and three months have passed since then. It is quite enough time for this bill to be ready. By the way, as I understand it, at one of the last meetings in the Ministry with people with disabilities, the Minister has made a commitment to have the Law ready by the end of July. If this law is ready at the end of July, as far as I know, because I heard it in the media, I was not present at the meeting, but if he really made a commitment by the end of July to have the Law ready, then we have every reason in August to work to accept it, because the delay we have made in this National Assembly is enormous. Although, I say again, the problem starts from the previous.. it should have been ready in 2016, adopted according to the plan that GERB has made for the integration of people with disabilities. It's not the only delay that fits the plan. I mean, the plan for the integration of people with disabilities foresees a lot of things, and the delay under this law is not the only one, but it is the most important because without it, the process cannot continue. The logic is that the Protocol to the Convention must be ratified in 2020 so that people with disabilities can have the necessary rights accordingly. The later the Law comes out, the longer we delay it, the more chances of ratifying the Protocol in 2020 becoming smaller, not to say that they are impossible. I mean to work in August there is, because for people with disabilities it is pain. Not to mention that for some of them, unfortunately, it will probably cost their lives, if not the lives of their loved ones, so refer to the matter purely human. This is not about how much time we will work on whether we will work for 20 days or 10 days more. It's that these people need this now. The fact that these laws and this law have not been adopted is a complete error of the current National Assembly and the current majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any lines to Mr. Kutev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think there should be a debate today. At least tell me why you won't vote for this proposal. I think these people's problems aren't over this month, and they're from a long time ago. Mr. Tsvetanov, I am addressing you personally in front of the parliament protesting mothers of children with disabilities, not mothers with disabilities. I see how much you care about this topic and how interested you are in these people because I am sure that this parliament has gone 10% to those mothers of disabled children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleagues from BSP, with much of what we have heard so far, we agree. I think that everyone in this room is aware of the importance of the situation in which people with disabilities, their families and all of us as a society. I think that in recent months, although this process has been going on for years, but not as it should have happened, progress has been observed in the work, namely a more active work. I think we are all aware here that the solution is not like the usual one to provide additional funding or to amend and supplement the Law. The decisions suggest changing the system of social assistance for disabled people, as it no longer meets their needs to date. This requires a serious reading of the situation in which we find ourselves in order to find that solution that satisfies all interested parties. I think we all want to have an adequate law that solves mostly the problem of all people with disabilities. We want this law to be time-resistant and financially secure, and to satisfy all needs. Of course, along with this, we are observers and we become part of the process that we are walking until this law is born, which is long painfully waiting for people with disabilities. We have protests from the mothers of children with disabilities. These protests are their right and we respect their right. By the way, these protests have led to a slightly different way of working at the moment and to some positive things. Firstly, they are included in the working group in order to be able to participate directly in the decision-making process and in the drafting of the relevant draft laws. Secondly, the process is much more transparent and I think it is a good practice that should apply to all other spheres. Thirdly, this case has become a priority for the Ministry, and literally every day it is being worked on and there are already different points of view that bring out further different problems. One thing I think we can do wrong is put too much pressure on the task force, experts and everyone who works. We have seen that the National Council for the Integration of Disabled Persons rejected the proposal of the Ombudsman institution and the mothers of disabled people. It is right to comply with the arguments, as well as to comply with the draft bill already drawn up, which can today, as far as I understand from the media, be submitted to the National Assembly. I think that the people who are working should have enough time to be able to look at the proposals from all sides, so as not to allow what at the beginning, unfortunately, began to be assumed to satisfy the needs of one, we would be damaging others, and we would oppose them to a third. It is very important that we find that solution that will be good for all interested parties. My concern is that the excessive pressure of the National Assembly for a month to be focused only on solving this case would not lead to the result that we all expect. Colleagues, in your motives you have, I think, used the expression that it is not good to make laws on a knee. I believe that these laws, which we have the ministry's assurance that they will be ready by the end of July, should pass through the Council of Ministers. This is about providing funding, which will be in the long term, and it will have to be provided for all the next governments that will come. So let us walk the entire procedure responsibly, with active work as it has been in recent months to have the result that is needed. The National Assembly can always be convened even a month of August when we are on vacation, if everything is ready by then and we have the opportunity to get together and continue working. In conclusion, there is an eastern wisdom that says that square sticks are placed in square holes. Instead of working when we need to rest, it is better to work when we have to work, which means that first, we have to be in the Chamber, and second, when we have 90 votes a day, it is at least 86 of them to have voted. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u33	Thank you, dear Sirakov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u34	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Sir Sirakov, you have been ruling for almost 10 years. For ten years these disabled people have been waiting for this law. Ten years the Ministry can't make this law. What pressure do we have that we want to sit here, bring in the Law and watch it? This law should have entered 2016 as well. He didn't come in. It was due to enter early 2018. He didn't come in either. Now to enter for September and October. Those people who are sitting outside in tents, the mothers of children with disabilities and children themselves, should Christmas spend there, so that the Ministry can finally get wised up, wonder to put this law in order to resolve it, take a step towards solving the problems of these people, these Bulgarian citizens?! Ten years you've been running this law for ten years. I apologize for the expression, but it's punctual. You're not doing anything! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Sir Sirakov, let's go all the way. The point is that this time you've been walking for at least ten years and blocking in the same place. And that's because you're right there's a lot of contradictions and underwater stones. It's a very complex matter. That is why it cannot remain only within the Ministry and the experts. The National Integration Council you mentioned proved this. The result is that many of the ideas were criticised on the one hand, accepted by the other. It creates opposition between the people we want to help. The National Assembly has a responsibility to intervene in this process now. To withdraw the ideas that there are here at the highest level and to be a catalyst for this process, which we are already sure will not happen in the Ministry. The opposite means that another project will come here, you will support it, no matter what happens, we will say we will have our criticisms and the result will be new and new protests. We are offering you a new responsible approach, which, by the way, involves not only voting but working on the laws, because there are many votes, but if I ask them what exactly they voted on yesterday, I am not sure that they will answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Third line? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u38	Dear Sir Sirakov, I appreciate and enjoy the tone we are putting into this debate, and that you clearly understand the importance. I see you've seen a lot of the problems. That's the positive part of all this. What, though, is the problem in this case? The problem is that the probability, when this law enters, will it enter in July or October, when it was Minister Petkov's previous promise I guarantee you that it will lead to huge problems both within the organization and entirely in society. The probability that this law will pass and all this work will go without resistance, including from the people themselves, is very small, because what needs to be done is that the whole social system and the way of work must be turned upside down. It's a complicated job. It is not for a reason that we are not submitting such bills at the moment, because this is not the work of the opposition. This must be done through the Council of Ministers. The probability that the money that Vladi Goranov can release in order to reach the policy implementation is extremely small. It is very likely that you will come to great resistance. Much better, even for you, this thing is going to happen in August, not in October. If this whole thing runs out by October, if by then the mothers of disabled children, and not just them, stand out front and you have reached the level of tension that is already unbearable, then you will see that it is much more complicated and this can now reverse the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Sirakov, come in for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u40	Colleagues, I see that we have an understanding in much of the way the problem needs to be solved. It's more like we're passing each other in some of the details. In fact, for nearly 10 years he has really managed GERB. Unfortunately, with one break of two years, which has brought us back 10 years, it may take another 10 years to do what we planned. You've had two years, you've had the opportunity to change the situation we're in right now. You didn't do it in two years. I don't believe we'll do it in a month. I agree with you with one question: whether there will be a conflict under the Law, whether there will be opposition, whether there will be dissatisfied. It is, and we see that with each passing day more and more unknowns appear. That's where I'm worried. When we press through time and when we have freed up all our time on this job alone, then the tension will be even more intense. I think that all those who are interested in this topic, who feel responsible for this topic, do not wait for the Ministry to give us the Law. We are currently getting acquainted with what is happening, we are getting acquainted with the possibilities for finding the solution, so it takes time to go through all the procedures that are needed and look at the options for the solution from all sides. Otherwise, you're absolutely right about everything. We are all right about the way it has to be realized, but it is precisely in terms of the time component that we are passing each other. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u41	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start by saying that I'm about not having a vacation, working as long as it makes sense to make a public useful point. I would have accepted BSP's request to cancel the vacation if, first, it had been done legally literately. It is not because we have art. 45, para. 2 in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which is by the power of the Law. Isn't that right, Mrs. Karayancheva, ladies and gentlemen of lawyers? The law cannot be repealed by a spontaneous decision in the Chamber. You had to do it, you had to propose a change of para. 2 of art. 45 of the Rules of Procedure. Then I would have agreed to, yes, you're right, to cancel this year's no vacation. But for what? And here you're limping. You should have presented a work plan for August to work. Okay, great, but what do we do in August? First week, second week, third week, fourth week. What plan do you propose for work? You know that, at least we remember it from the pioneer and Komsomol organization: action plan, deadline, in charge. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Without this thing, it can't be done. Let's work in August. Okay. First of all, I'm sure most of you don't really want it. I am ready to really work in August, but what are we going to do and what will be the result for people? All they talk about here is the Law on Disabilities. I personally engaged, talked to the representatives of those who protest. In the Social Committee, we, the Patriots, have two people. They committed themselves to Dr. Popovski and Mr. Shopov, all the proposals that come from the organizations of people with disabilities, to be taken into consideration, to enter the committees and we have a whole month until the end of July, during which we can move this law, if that is the most important thing you want to work for. We're moving this law. If necessary, in August we can come to vote. We can come to debate whatever you want. So we have the opportunity to resolve this law now.. by the end of July. Let's do this! I'll do what I can to make it move faster. I believe that GERB will have pressure in the Ministry to move, the working group to work better. So by the end of July we can go out willingly, be ready by this law, if that's the most important thing. And if we still decide to work in August, Mrs. Ninova... You, by the way, have been mentioned here, I now do not want to bicker about you were Chairman of the Social Committee during the period of Prime Minister Oresharski one and a half years. That law wasn't moved. I agree to work in August even I am prepared with two or three proposals that I can offer you for August 1st. Proposal No 1: to recognise the referendum in Crimea and to recognise that this is a legitimate, legitimate part of the Russian Federation. I look forward to the vote by Mr Vigenin, who went to legitimize the Ukrainian junta when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs. The second proposal could be for example to drop the news of Turkish from BNT something that we have been fighting for a long time to see how you will vote on this. My third proposal is to terminate the contract with the United States to use four military bases in Bulgaria -- one-sided, two-sided treaty -- is not from NATO, which has been going on for 12 years without paying a penny. These bases were given by the government of BSP with Prime Minister Stanishev and President Parvanov I remember very well because we were protesting the giving of bases. Here are two, three proposals that we can discuss, Mrs. Ninova, during August work and accept with your help. If you agree, please come and say it from the stands. I invite Mr. Vigenin specifically to speak of Crimea, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u44	Mr. Siderov, I'm making a line for you. I am delighted with the position of the Patriots that you wish to work in August and I tell you that there is no legal obstacle to your support. The text that you read, read the above paragraph, there is an exception to this, and we suggest that this is an exception to the National Assembly may change the dates of holidays. We are in a legal and legal hypothesis to do this. [[Noise.]] The obstacle for you, which you have pointed out, is formal. Everything you said shows that you are ready to work in the summer and I invite you to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Mr. Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, I would like to state support with regard to your thesis on the stability of the norms which...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u47	That's not a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u48	It's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u49	Listen carefully, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I support your understanding of the stability of the norm of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure because it actually governs lasting relations and the Constitution obliges us to accept this norm as equivalent to the rules laid down in the Law. What bothers me in your agreement? Hypothetically, to allow derogation in this situation to work on almost exceptional occasion. I'm not a member of the Social Committee, I can't make any arguments in terms of matter. My arguments are entirely in connection with the procedure. Colleagues, there can be no future, possible exclusivity that you have not justified in any way. There was a bill somewhere, there was an argument against this bill. What are the guarantees that these bills will be available in August? You know the rules well. The Rules also provide for a procedure: which of the Members of the National Assembly will take part in the meetings of the committees, who will participate in the plenary sittings at first reading? You do understand that if you justify the request in this way...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u50	Who's the line to?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u51	Please don't call and take your place! Mr. Kirilov, please continue. [[Replying, noise.]] Do not disturb the order of the court, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u52	But you don't keep order in this room. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u53	Well, she likes you and she's watching you. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u54	I can't take my eyes off you, it's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u55	Mr. Kirilov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u56	You want to explain something all the time, or you want to think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u57	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u58	I would like to say this: art. 48 "Exercise sittings. Let's work hard, let's walk the way of the preparatory phase. When we are ready, when we agree, when we have clarity, I and my colleagues will be the first to support you for an extraordinary meeting when it enters the August time interval. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, you are absent, but I hope you will hear what I have to say. Again, a strong statement for which we support you. [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] It's true! We all agree! There is no person in the room who does not want to work in August, but I will still make my reply by procedure, and it is: if in the management of Mr. Oresharski were given free bases of a foreign country and this can practically be likened to betrayal of the Bulgarian national interest [[crowd cheers and applause]] , then they had a majority and passed it. What's stopping us from waiting for August to be the first point? What prevents this point from being submitted tomorrow and being cancelled in order to protect the Bulgarian national interest? I urge Mr. Siderov not to wait for August. We have plenty of time, we'll put it as a point right now, in this session, to make this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Will Mr. Siderov use the hole? I can't see. Mr. Vigenin's way of handling it. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, when you do lines that aren't lines, you don't have duplicates, I didn't have the opportunity to make a line about it, but maybe I'll have the opportunity, within a personal explanation, to say something, to ask the question...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u63	Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u64	Mr. Siderov likes to practice on this topic. Just now you, Mr. Siderov, pressed the button and supported the government, which only a few hours ago extended the sanctions against the Russian Federation again. Explain this to your constituents. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by "BSP for Bulgaria", applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We continue with the speeches on item two of today's agenda. Mr. Mareshki wants to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! The fact that a moment ago there was a loud applause of Mr. Vigenin's speech, and very thoughtful in the statement of Mr. Zarkov, who gave the reasons for the proposal, shows that in the parliamentary group of BSP they are absolutely aware that this is [[noise, cheers, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] meaningless, wild populism, which cannot be supported by normal-thinking Bulgarian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, if it is not the job of the MP to fill holes, although this is in the interest of Bulgarian citizens, it is also not the job of the MP to work when there is leave. It's the job of the MP to do his job when he's at work... [[(Strong noise, lines, shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.) Partial applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u67	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u68	That in 30 years you haven't done your job, you can't go out with this wild populism and say: "We are now going to do all the work we haven't done in 30 days." Once again, we from Volja are the only ones who can, of course, be representatives of the Bulgarian people. Not a party! Not only the mothers of children with disabilities, not only the disabled, not just the man who was robbed in Pleven and the thousands of people who were constantly raped and robbed. We are the only ones because we have not been involved in the legislation and management that has led these people to this situation. Think about it, when you had the opportunity to do something, did you do it? The fact that something is wrong right now is not because it was okay when you were in charge, and then someone ruined it, but because when you were in charge, you didn't. You're equally guilty, and you must be guilty. And you must be guilty! And not make us work in August. If I have to be even more cynical than what you're doing, I'd say we work the night shift. Let's work three shifts. So what? What is the effect of the work you do? The effect of your work we see on the tents ahead. He's not just from work in recent years, he's from work all the years of transition. The only people in this room who have no responsibility for this situation and with clean eyes and conscience can watch the protesters in front, the man robbed in the village, the people who are working between the villages to fix their own holes or waiting for someone like me to go and do it, it's us from Volja. And the more such free people enter the Bulgarian Parliament with the desire to really do the work, not to play wild populism, cynical populism, the faster Bulgaria will be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u69	Here you go, Mr. Kutev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Mareshki, I have no reason to be guilty, to tell you this. The main reason I don't have a reason to be guilty is because there aren't six against me, I think they are, pending cases. There is against you. With all six cases, if anyone tells me that a man against whom so many cases are being prosecuted is independent, I think they'll lie. We're talking about pure logic. Each of you, make an account. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can a person against whom the state has so many cases be independent?! If we then come to the other: that at the moment the government lived "You are talking: You have all been in power." You are now in power because the vote of distrust has just passed with your voices. Without the votes of Will, this vote wouldn't have passed. Consider your mathematics upstairs. So if anyone's holding up power right now, it's you. Right now you're in power and don't blame us for ruling ridiculously because you're part of the government. And already how it affects colleagues from GERB that a person with six cases supports them and thanks to him they are in power, let this think each one of them separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line please, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mareshki, it is interesting that when you said that someone should be guilty, you neglected to set an example in which a few months ago a colleague who replicated before me was tearing his shirt here on stage. [[Sighs and noise.]] It's no coincidence I'm saying on the stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u73	On the parliamentary stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u74	I say it's no coincidence the scene. Mr. Mareshki, you neglected to say that even then the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly was required because there was no one to let people in here and we would hear them. The same gentleman who was tearing his shirt on stage after you heard them, what did you do? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u75	On the parliamentary stand, Mr. Hristov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u76	A year ago, Mr. Mareshki, these same people promised the sufferers outside who protest to enter their bill, which these same people have and is ready. They came to us and said: "We want someone to recognize this bill. And they said, "After our talks with BSP, they promised to recognize us and bring it in. And because they are a bigger and stronger party, we will rely on them. Sorry, Mr. Mareshki, maybe you should call things by their real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line? I don't see a third line. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you, Mr. Christov. Dear Mr. Kutev, incredible cynicism! Incredible cynicism, but what else can we expect from people from the Bulgarian Socialist Party?! What else can we expect from people who have sentenced millions of Bulgarian citizens to death by making them a three-dollar pension? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause from GERB and Volya.)]] I can speak this because, then, I have lined up in queues, on the Bulgarian Red Cross, to have something to feed my first child when you in your golden cages have prospered, we have squandered [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And we've got a whole apartment warmed up with one stove. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "It" is for cooking. "]] You don't know these things! You have no way of understanding them! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can we call the devil's servants people? [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] who have condemned the Bulgarian people of misery and hunger? If we can call them the devil's servants, then can socialist MPs who voted on the laws that voted on the budget [[(noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] In
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u79	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u80	...in which Bulgarian pensioners receive three dollars' pension? What else can we call them? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It doesn't matter whether any Bulgarian citizen... because now it may be that some of the Bulgarian citizens who protest in front are charged, but they are Bulgarian citizens and have rights. You can't shut them up. Especially you, who may find yourself here with bought votes from a colleague of yours. [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]] You don't have those rights. A little, a little shame! [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]] You have the great responsibility for the troubles and misfortunes of these people outside! I'm not saying others don't. Yeah, we're not wearing 'cause we didn't rule, but you're carrying the biggest part of the blame! A little shame, a little shame, a little shy, a little morale! It doesn't matter if I have charges or not, the court will decide! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] People outside, if they have charges, don't they have the right to protest? Doesn't the system kill them? The system that you created when I was lining up the Red Cross, didn't you kill me? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't I have diseases I can't cure because you ruined health care? Doesn't the system you created kill me? Yeah, that I'm not like some of your colleagues in the gambling business, I'm part of the pharmacies business. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Some of the people who help the Bulgarian people now make me a person who has no right to erupt and resent and seek my rights [[the President signals that time has run out]] about the chaotic transition that you gave birth to, is that correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u81	The weather, Mr. Mareshki. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]] Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u82	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Maybe I wasn't gonna say anything, but I can't pass that up. Dear Mr. Mareshki, I have not sentenced Bulgarian citizens to death [[GERB lines]] I do not live in a golden cage, but in a panel apartment in the school and as a director of Bulgarian school for years I have wondered how to solve the problems of children with disabilities from how to enter the schoolyard this child, to how to enter the entrance of the school, to what to do next in the classrooms, to whether there will be a resource teacher for him, whether his mother can come with him, or we should put aside funds not as sufficient as you can think, so that this child can feel good for us. I think we've done a great job. That's why there were press releases. I do not want to quote the names of the children, but I do not want you to make generalizations and I do not want you to explain to me what was supposed to happen in the 10 years in the management of GERB or in one year in the management of Oresharski, because I am a MP here and now in this Parliament, like all of you. Here and now we have to solve this problem. Just admit that you are not ready with these bills, although you should have been ready, as Mr. Kutev said in 2016. Because if you explain that you are not ready, if you decide that on a proposal from Mr. Siderov in August we will look at some great issues that have no bearing on the problems of the disabled mothers for Crimea, on the bases of NATO and so on, the mothers of children with disabilities do not have that time. They don't have the free time to do what we're witnessing here right now! Colleagues in schools don't have time to deal with wasteland because every minute they have problems to solve. So either admit that you're not ready, and that's why you don't want to support our proposal, or you don't belong here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u83	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u85	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Director, please take a look at you, ask yourself, and we will stick to the subject and speculate populistically, it is not good for populism to respond with populism, but please answer me: how many of the disabled outside are victims of not informing the Chernobyl disaster? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] How many victims of excessive exploitation in uranium mines and what you have done... [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": "Eee," ……]] What now, what now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u86	Do not engage in dialogue with the House, Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u87	Answer me, Madam Director!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u88	At the time, you were BSP! At the time, you were BSP, it was BSP!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u89	You're wrong! A long time after that, I was...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u90	Quiet, please! Mrs. Taskova, come in for a second line. Mr. Stoynev, please calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u92	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u93	Dear Mrs. Anastasova, I take this line out of respect to the Bulgarian teacher because you tried to summarize the teachers in Bulgaria with your speech. Not everyone is trying to help children with disabilities and fail, many teachers succeed and they struggle daily! That you have wondered for years and to this day there is no result of your wonder, because there is no obvious and done work, please do not lower the Bulgarian teacher to this level! People really cope and work in these difficult conditions. Apart from that, you say: I am a Member of the National Assembly here and now. I wasn't a MP in Oresharski's time. Yes, we see the shame of everything that has happened in BSP over the years, but precisely because of what you have never done, no one will ever trust you again, because everyone is worried about the Oresharski cabinet coming again. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u94	Ask your husband about shame! Ask your husband!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u96	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Anastasova! Firstly, I will use part of my time to make a remark to you, Madam President, it is obvious that there will be rude conduct and non-compliance with the Rules of some of the Members of this House, and I will ask you to remind them a little more strictly if you really need to take measures in order to be able to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u97	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u98	Dear Mrs. Anastasova, not 2006, but 1996, that these decisions should have been taken before and should have been made. That's one line. The second, however, as you can see, without saying that we are staying away with the colleague, but every normal Bulgarian citizen has noticed it. You mentioned: "We were wondering. I yesterday, when I filled the hole in front of one of the city halls in Varna... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u100	...the mayor of the country came and said to me: "Well, I've been here for a year wondering how to fill this hole." [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Just with wonder, honourable ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, it does not work and pragmatists also need professionals to come out and do the work. If you couldn't, then when you were in charge, you had ministers of education to do this job, don't blame anyone else. Look at your qualities and whether you have the right to be here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Here you go, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u102	God, I really wonder, do you understand what this is about? [[(No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Do you know how desperate this reaction is? Whatever happened in Chernobyl and then, Mr. Kirilov, the consequences must be there. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I can't tell you what the results are and what happened to these children, and whether this is the result of this. The fact is that children with disabilities and people with disabilities have them now does not mean that you should be here looking for who was guilty 10, 20 and 30 years ago. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Okay, look and say it, but solve their problems! That's the question! At least I can accept such criticisms and remarks from people who at the time were not only members of BCP and BSP subsequently, but were municipal councilors from BSP. What kind of surat are you dating, and that's how you're talking right now? [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] My request is not to bring it up! Let's really solve these people's questions, because they're heavy. Whether I've decided them or not, being a director, for this evaluation has been given to me by the teachers, by the students and their parents. I'm proud of what I've done. Whoever's interested can check it out. That's not the problem! With this I just wanted to illustrate to you that these problems are daily and if we postpone them now, and if we postpone them October, and if we postpone them until after the end of the year, we do nothing, and that's why these people are out! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! From the conversation we are having so far, you have learned a lesson from the debate on wage cuts when you jumped and said: "This is populism! This should not happen! It is very good that we are discussing this subject. The mothers of children with disabilities need this, only it is not by procedure, let us delay it, because we are not ready yet, but whatever tactics you apply is obviously one thing: the vote will come in a few minutes, and then it will be seen that you are voting against it, as well as stalling it. I would like to comment on the arguments given so far. As always, when you have no arguments on the substance of the idea, you resort to the arguments of the procedure and of the person who submitted the proposal. By procedure, if you see the proposal not being submitted correctly and we have no legal arguments. Well, read these rules, you guys, you write them and you accept them! Read art. 45 where it says that the National Assembly can decide, with a decision to change its vacation when this is necessary on some outstanding case............................................................................. Secondly, we didn't have an agenda, a program, a deadline and a supervisor. Well, bring in Mr. Siderov, an agenda. These points that you propose to discuss in August are well, but why not until August? Two years, what were you waiting for? Why didn't you bring in a decision about Crimea, make it about American bases? Because here, this guy who's looking at me, he would hardly have allowed you to bring him in. Give it to me in August, then. The third argument: We can come to an extraordinary meeting. First, you said that the subject is very complicated, that it wants long talks, long discussion and suddenly you say:..We will come for a meeting if we have to discuss it and accept it.......................... how exactly will you accept it in one session, saying that you do not have months to solve it, because it is very complicated? The next argument is the votes. Perhaps a second week I sit and watch you with this vote how Mrs. Ninova of 90 votes voted 5. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] I'm sitting here and I'm looking at your miracle and you're shitting. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] To tell you the following, honourable Members! Two hundred and seventy-nine times, not ninety, 279 pushes on the button you have to deprive the cancer patients of the drugs in December 2017. Two hundred seventy-nine! And after one conversation with the Prime Minister back, 93 times you pressed the button exactly the opposite. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, 837 times you pushed buttons back and forth, which, as you were told, without a gram of thought and with no result of this vote. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Commendations: "Eee!" (Applause from "BSP" for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u105	Please, Mrs. Ninova, don't insult the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u106	Of course, of course. [[Loud noise and lines.]] You know, the style you're trying to impose in Parliament can meet the same answer... to start and we can count who has voted how many times. The result with you will be the same. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] No, dear, we're not getting into this! We won't count your votes! We will not be part of the bottom you hit in Parliament! We will try to push Parliament from this bottom because 837 times to vote automatically without thinking and then to vote exactly the opposite. This gives the image of Parliament, not counting who has been absent, because you must have been absent more. We're not gonna get into this, we're gonna charge you with content! The next argument is wild populism that is what we do. Finally, someone slipped up to say what you think of wild populism and a group, you see, spoke on behalf of the people! I have a question we ask, colleagues, in the last month several times. Please, whoever's speaking from here, come out and tell me on whose behalf he's speaking? Because we are not Cornelia, Peter, George and so on, we are representatives of many people behind us. I ask you today, all of you who have spoken, give me lines, if you can, and tell me, on whose behalf have you spoken these things? Say: on behalf of the voters of GERB, who sent us here, on behalf of ten people who authorized me to tell you that they want, while the mothers of children with disabilities and children lie outside, we rest. Tell me on whose behalf are you speaking?! Because I'll tell you from who we're talking about. And this time I'm not going to tell a million voters, which is a fact, but I'm going to tell you: from the mothers of the disabled children who wrote this to us. [[shows]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use Dear MPs, parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria! Since June 2018, we have been protesting to protect the rights of our children and people with disabilities. The system is killing us, and it needs serious change to guarantee the life and normal existence of our children. We'll be in the tent camps until the necessary laws are passed. We have assurance from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that they will be ready by the end of July, by the end of July we will have laws in parliament. That is why these mothers, with a petition, say: "We support you on the idea that the National Assembly will work in August to adopt legislation that will help over 70 000 people and their families. Is that populism, colleagues?! Here, we stand with our faces, with our names and we tell you that on behalf of these people we want this. You tell us on whose behalf you say you want to rest in August on the beaches while they lie in tents. List the names of the Bulgarians who have authorized you to say this and to vote like this. [[Loud noise and lines.]] There was no solution now. There was nothing to do! Let's slow things down! Today, the Ombudsman Maya Manolova will submit the Law with changes made after the talks and debates. Immediately afterwards, we gather in our parliamentary group, look at the new proposals that Maya Manolova and the mothers of children with disabilities bring, and we tell you that if they respond to what we have spoken with them, we will recognise this law and submit it to the Ministry after the group get together and discuss it. Here's some work material for you. You didn't have any work material. Here's some material! The Minister of Labour and Social Policy is committed by the end of July to submit laws here's your work material! And what's going to happen? These laws will stand in the Ministry from the end of July to September, and we will rest during that time. Together with the laws of the Ministry, mothers and children will lie in tents in front of parliament and we will rest. Because we need time, you see, we need to think about it, we need to look at it! Well, for once, be honest, direct and frank, say, "We don't want to work in August and we want to rest. We're looking for ways to get out of this job and say it veiled so that we don't piss off the people and mothers of disabled children. Because all your arguments are untenable, as I have tried to explain now. And the only solution, I hope Volen Siderov will not go back on his words after the talks we have seen here, and perhaps the pressure that has proved to be on them will support this decision because it is neither populism nor an attempt to eat the protest of some people with suffering. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Communicating: "Eee! "]] It'd be stewing if we'd come out here and speak for ourselves. I told you: I speak on behalf of the mothers of disabled children who authorized us to do so. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Neither is populism nor is it riding the protest of people with disabilities, but it will be immoral and inhuman, while they are in front of parliament in the tents with their children, we will be on the beaches of Bulgaria and abroad. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u107	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Rashidov, second line, Mr. Mareshki, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I agree and hardly anyone will challenge the dramaticness of the problem we are debating outside the point you have proposed because the point is for vacation. However, the question is: what do we achieve today with this discussion? What are we accomplishing today?! We're getting nowhere. We've achieved that once again we're organizing a fair. You're organizing it! We look at you, listen to you and play the role of an audience. Two days ago it was the vote of no confidence in the government, where only you spoke, and now I see that you have many speakers on the topic of summer vacation. Mrs. Ninova, don't break parliament, you may need it someday. Parliament ratings are low because we today, and not only today, we broadcast the message that lazy, dishonest, bad people work here who want to destroy some mothers of children with disabilities because we are corrupt because we are evil in principle. Parliament will never have a high rating, and this is indeed the most important institution. You could, of course, work in August. Of course you can, if necessary, if this law is ready. You were Chairman of the Social Committee.. I do not want to take back time at all: why didn't you accept it then and why didn't all these problems solve them? It's the message. You could have asked for it in another way, could have done without a fair. You're the leader of a centenarian, of a hundredth party. A hundred-year-old party doesn't suit to bounce because it could have a heart attack. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Applause by GERB.)]] Because when a hundred-year-old party starts bouncing, we can doubt that it is sick, demented and not behaving properly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope you won't continue, though I don't believe it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Second line, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u110	Mrs. Chairman! Colleagues, I've been listening to you have fun and play with people's fates for the last two weeks. It is not an advantage for anyone to make a policy with the pain and suffering of the people outside, and this is a problem that must be resolved very seriously. Wild populism makes me think you might be serving pharmaceutical companies. I see you as lobbyists, I don't see you as defenders. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What's that?! What's that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u111	Go on, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u112	Do you know how many sick children and people there are in Bulgaria, so you do a tent?! The tent is a problem we will all solve. Why don't you decide if you know how to talk?! Why don't you guys decide that? You go all day and you're doing PR and you're like, "Ide." Who are you yelling at?! This is decided with power resources, reasonable and not decided in the middle of the year. Where were you when we had to accept the budget?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How now, in the middle of the year, go ahead?! From where? The problem must be solved wisely. Do you know how many kids are oncologically ill in clinics? The way you're looking at me, you didn't help them but talk. I sold an exhibition and gave big money. Ask how many are there? Big money! That's how you help them! How can you afford to make politics with people's pain?! Aren't you ashamed of doing this thing?! Please stop with these tents, stop with this, and sit down and do something. Enough with the politics, it's a very low level as politics! What you're doing is a very low level. And the Bulgarian Parliament is getting weaker. Think about it. The only contribution you have is you who deal with every sneeze of the government and GERB, you want your resignation. That's your policy?! Any sneeze for you is grounds for resignation. Don't you guys have anything more serious?! Do you know what kind of trouble he's in? Ask for it, but you don't know. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. For the third line, Mr. Mareshki. No. Mr. Nenkov wanted a line, Mr. Mareshki gave up. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is really humiliating sometimes, and it is difficult to sit in this room when somehow we ourselves turn out to be the worst people who think neither of mothers who have children with such problems nor of people with disabilities, and that is not true. I somehow do not perceive myself as a person who is evil, and I do not want to find any solution for these people, but the history of this Parliament and my short history of my residence here is that ultimately, when under emotion we make decisions and hurry to make some cheap PR, usually decisions in the long term are wrong or need their correction. There is no colleague here who does not support what I say, because really under the grace of emotions and some desire to ride a protest because that is what you are doing, there is no doubt about it, and I do not believe that anyone does not think that way. You're trying the simplest, cheapest way to grab some people who have their problems, have their sorrows and sufferings, and now, you see, on them, we get some PR. I think that's very wrong. Me and my colleagues, who are here in this Chamber, have seen people with all kinds of needs and disabilities and without speculating, without going out with any fanfare and saying that we are for them, for one thing or another, on the other, we have heard them, we have seen their problems and we are looking for some golden environment, without going in one direction or another, because the subject is very sensitive. Even the bill that you claim you will submit today, if you accept it, is also not indisputable. I don't think that right now, in the next month, Parliament has enough time to work and can accept enough bills to benefit society. Anything that comes from emotion will be wrong and I'm sure of it. Don't overdo it and don't abuse it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u116	Dear Madam President and colleagues! Two sentences seem to show your whole attitude to the problem. One of them I saved you, and it was Prime Minister Borisov's: Get out of my head! [[GERB lines.]] The second we heard it today and here now and it was: "Enough with this tent!" That's what it all says, "Enough of this tent!" and "Let's get out of my head!" The tent is not one, the tents are many, not just in front of parliament, but in the whole country. And these mothers made it clear that they wouldn't leave the Prime Minister's head because they were fighting for their children's lives and wouldn't go away because they wouldn't go any further. I wish this debate and your arguments were out front. Please, colleagues who have spoken here, go within 10 meters of Parliament and say what you have said here! Go and say it to these mothers: "BSP are populists, BSP rides the protest, doesn't give in..." [[GERB lines.]] Go tell them! It's easy behind the walls here, isn't it? One of your MPs came by and you saw what happened to her. You saw that, didn't you? The whole people are watching the video. Because to the lines: "Let them get out of my head! " and get out of here, enough with this tent! " We can add: "You will live with BGN 138 if you stop smoking! " - Replica, spoken by GERB MP to one-legged person! And you will tell me that this is populism!? No, that's soulless. Not only is it misunderstanding, it's insanity. And here to the big theme: Why is parliament low rating? Because, you see, we've been beating ourselves up about how bad we are, how corrupt we are and so on. Well, disprove this feeling of people by voting today for us to come and work to solve one of their problems! Disprove this feeling by not going to such a person with one foot to tell him: "You will live with BGN 138 if you stop smoking! Our arrogance is the reason, colleagues, for this attitude of the people towards us. We have repeatedly raised this question.. to come to our senses as a political class, to start giving up privileges ourselves, otherwise the people will refuse us in the way he can. And we are not the BSP guilty of this state of the Bulgarian Parliament. Any MP who doesn't understand what he's sent here for. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And what shall he give up, and what shall he receive, who remembereth not the oath which he took the first day in the name of the people? [[the President signals that time has run out]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u117	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u118	...and he comes to this people and says to him, "You will live with BGN 138."...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u119	Time, Mrs. Ninova! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u120	That's the reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u121	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u122	...and the sooner we realize and correct it, the better for Bulgarian parliamentaryism and Bulgarian statehood. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Speech wants Mr. Gurnevsky, then Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Today I had no intention of speaking because I am in a conflict of interest on this subject. Conflict of interest, if you here populist, political, looking for dividends, meet these kids for 10 minutes, play with them and start politics of the most, I won't say the word type. There are a few people in this room who know what kind of conflict of interest we're in. I see Milko Nedyalkov, we've had a long talk with him, because if you see these kids once a week and you make politics, now that I'm back home tonight and every time I come back, my 20-year-old granddaughter is waiting for me with some smiling eyes and she can't say what her heart is thinking right now because of her severe illness. Because all that you're commenting on and you haven't survived it, we've been going through it for 20 years! For twenty years, my daughter on the other terrace dusks with puffy eyes and says: "What will happen after me with this child? " - 20 years on the other terrace dusks with empty boxes of cigarettes. This populism, which you have played for more than a month to make politics, does not resemble, as Mr. Bikov said, a 100-year-old party! You're talking about integrity. I've spoken to the Minister in person. I don't make politics in front of the group either, and I know my pain and many other children because mothers communicate. I know what this minister is doing and what he's doing and what he's doing and what he's got, I see here, and specialists in the social system and politics. People want to do something to satisfy with a balanced policy all groups belonging to and needing this social protection. This group does, undoubtedly, have other groups. You can see that there has been a contradiction between the groups themselves, and this wants an extremely serious approach. It is no accident that this minister who works, this minister, when he resigned, the people themselves who protest wanted it. They are in the working group and they see that this man and this government is looking for a complex solution, not a small group with which we want to make policy. You're talking about integrity. Yesterday at the no-confidence vote you said, Mrs. Nino, the fugitive from the 3rd district in Plovdiv, who was for questioning and escaped. Well, you're the biggest fugitive in this country, you run away from work for six months every day! Why don't you stay here to vote laws, to discuss these things? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You come in the morning, register, throw your political poison under this tribune and leave! [[Laughter at GERB.]] That's what you do every day for six months. I can tell you that I have no absence and I have the right to say those words! Mrs. Atanasova was talking about Chernobyl, a tragedy. A tragedy, but a tragedy that the party you are heirs of did not share with its people. The planes, the Volks were bringing in the pure food, flying to the CCP, on the county and city committees, and the people didn't even warn them not to buy lettuce from the market in 1986. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Is that your integrity? And you have the audacity to claim it! The May Day rally you brought in the sozpenists to raise rebellion, revolution, you will take power. You brought socentiaries, from the stand for power they were summoned by socmillionaires to one of them. [[Laughter at GERB.]] A whole year from the first moment of this National Assembly, this government is looking at fake news, destabilization, scandals, looking for the smallest theme! Two grandmothers sitting somewhere talking to someone, you're the third with them to push them into rebellion. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You want power! However, Mrs. Nino, the people have not given you power for 10 years. In 10 years, GERB has not solved this problem. My granddaughter is 20 years old, and who hasn't solved this problem? For 70 years, 60 years he has ruled the Bulgarian Communist Party with hidden and obvious governments. Why didn't you solve these problems? The authors of the problems now want to say: [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Ms. Ninova, with this behavior and with the vote of mistrust, with which all Bulgaria saw that you fell to the bottom of opposition behavior, that you were helpless, that you escaped the debate, there were comments today, your representatives fled and public comments today before the vote, all Bulgaria saw. So I'll tell you this: the people have their fairy tales. The people manage to identify a type of cow who, when milking them, finally kick the backpack with the milk. The people do not want an empty backpack, they do not want because they know that when the Bulgarian Socialist Party comes to power, the state absolutely burns and then everything starts again, even below zero. That's why the Lord, Mrs. Ninova, is not giving you antlers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. A line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u126	If I may extend the group's time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u127	Extend group time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u128	Mr. Gurnevsky, this anticommunism you like to pour regularly is a little difficult to understand for one simple reason, I've already told you that. When I look at the front row of our group, there are no members of the BCP, there are members of the BSP. When I look at the front row of yours, they're headed by... [[GERB lines.]] So, Mr. Tsvetanov asks where they are? You see, he doesn't even know. Nobody knows that... Mr. Borisov wasn't a member of the party, was he a member of the BCP? Wasn't Mr. Kirilov a city councilman from BSP? Wasn't it? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where are the Communists among you right now, those who were members of the BCP, because I was never a member of the BCP, I became a member of the BSP Party in 2001, and there are people among you with a much bigger party experience than I am. So anticommunism will be difficult to pass, Mr. Gurnevsky, in this composition. If you make another party, Mr. Bikov was a member of two or three parties before that, and he blames us for being a 100-year-old party and we're going to die. Your wife died when she was three years old, Mr. Bikov! The party you were a member of when you spoke against Tsvetanov was three years old and that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u129	The line is for Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u130	Now the specific line, Mr. Gurnevsky. What could we have done in the last year and a half? For me, the achievement and the good that we have been able to do, I assure you with a lot of effort, which is proof, see my official Facebook profile and you will see what I have done during this time, separately all other colleagues. What we could have done was bring it up. That's what the opposition can do. The opposition made of this topic central for Bulgaria, of course, with the effort of the people with disabilities who really do not tolerate anymore. And I've never tried this conversation before, and I haven't tried to take all the work they've done. Yes, I personally and many other colleagues have done a lot of work to do it because there would be a seventh protest going on without any consequences, as the previous six. So, Mr. Gurnevsky, we did our job, we made this a national problem. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We made you, I'm done, Madam President, we made you work. From now on, you do yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Nedyalkov had...? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What personal explanation? Your name wasn't given. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u132	Thank you, Madam President. To Mr. Gurnevsky because he said that the people have their own fairy tale. I'll use it to tell you quickly, in two minutes, a fairy tale. She is from Elin Pelin and her name is The man that everyone wanted to help him with: The past elections, the people chose architects, engineers, economists, lawmakers to gather and solve people's problems. They, for their part, started to set up a committee of economics, to solve economic issues, architectural issues, to solve urban planning issues, and so on. Meetings, meetings, meetings. In one sitting the door opens and enters some type of beard, Rocheschel, not shaved and these all elite people say: "Well, what is this guy, was it?" What are you? - He started, worried, confused. A man of the people who got confused entered the hall by the elite. And they started asking him, asking him, aceba, what his problems were and how to solve them. Yeah, but don't you want to come summer month August and the elite had to go on vacation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u133	The line is for Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u134	...and went on vacation. Yes, to Mr. Gurnevsky because he said that the people have a fairy tale and I tell the story to the people in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u135	But you won't have enough time, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u136	And it's gone... I'm coming, I'm coming, Madam President. And they postponed for after the break to solve the problem of this strange guy, and past the summer vacation, and the chairman said, "Well, call him the guy we all want to help." And there she said, "Ama, Mr. Chairman, he died to me." So that's the tale of the people, dear rulers. That's your story, too, but it may be over soon and over, because the people will... [[The National Representative Hristo Prodanov continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u137	Your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u138	Thank you, Madam President. This enthusiasm and unhealthy optimism, which smells here, from this tribune, mixed with so much malice and a pinch of selfishness and very narcissism, dear Mr. Gurnevski, is a deadly cocktail for parliamentaryism in Bulgaria and leads to an absolute inability to make management, government decisions. You make power decisions. There is a huge difference between the two types of decisions and the management of one country. I, listening to you here, think of a great work by Stanislav Stratiev, is called the Pear Ragatsa, who wanted to fall further from the tree and go to compote in France. But there you look like a hero of a turtle who turned her back and didn't have the capacity, like you, to walk, turn back and go on her way. And she what? She started thinking, "Well, the first few weeks will think I'm on vacation and I'll be lying down. If no one comes to turn me over in the coming years, they'll think I really liked this vacation and I've moved on. You're in this situation right now, you have nothing to do with reality, with the people outside, acting like this turtle, and you're taking a vacation! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u140	The jokes don't make sense for me to pay attention! She, the party, ruled with jokes for 50 years. That's how he left with jokes! [[Laughter at GERB.]] And the last joke: from socialism, capitalism, looting, and here are the capitalists. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Even now, they're preparing another job for us. They want to become socialists again. But we'll talk about it next time. With evidence! At the head of Comrade Ninova, she will restore socialism because the invalid apparently could not build. Mr. Popov, you didn't hear what I said. I suggest that when the meeting is over today, you come and visit me tonight. I'll take you back to Sofia tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u141	Let's go to the tent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u142	No, no! We'll go through the tent and go home. Yeah, you know I know her five times, ten times better than you do. That's why I went to the Minister and he assured the government of these problems. You have had the opportunity, you and now you have the opportunity to speak for two years about this law, who has deprived you of a legislative initiative? Well, bring it in! But you don't import anything, you just talk and look for dividends!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u143	They're waiting for Maya Manolova to write it to them! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u144	For BCP and BSP, it's high time you remembered! It is not a sin that someone was a member of the BCP.......... whether by ideas, by sentiment, by force, by career. It's not a sin that someone was a member of the BCP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u145	What about a career?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u146	Yes, there are soldiers who can't stand up and run the division if they're not members of the BCP. These are the thresholds the Communist Party sets. It's not a sin that someone was! It's a sin when it becomes clear the truth about communist crimes. If you remain a communist then you are equal to the sin and crimes of this party. The others found the strength to get rid of her poisonous tentacles. Unfortunately, you're not! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Milko Nedyalkov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] It's a personal explanation! How did they personally affect you? [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] In what way did the name say to you? [[Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u148	Yes, Mrs. Karayancheva, my first and second names.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u149	As soon as they tell you by name, yes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u150	If there is such a dispute, honourable Members, please check in the minutes. Mr. Gurnevsky will confirm that he told me the name.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u151	Yes, Mr. Gurnevsky confirms it. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! It's hard for me to talk about it, I won't cry in front of the National Assembly. But I haven't had a PR when I've taken my daughter for a hand since I was a kid, and I haven't hidden her in public. In this way, I was not doing PR, but teaching society to perceive different people to call them disabled people. Now she's 32 years old, and she's got as much development as a year and a half. We love each other very much and we'll never break up. During these years we did so and I thank my wife, who is the mother of such a child, that today my daughter is at sea with the other children from the Daycare Center for Children and Adults with Disabilities in Lovech. Why am I saying this as a personal explanation? Because fighting for these people requires that there be no rest! Because tomorrow, some of them may be too late! Because it might be too late for some of their parents! Therefore, I call on you: support our decision! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u153	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Bikov wanted a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u154	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! I'd generalize. I was part of the old right. I'm in the right hand now!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u155	Oh, wow!?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u156	The old right was very much like your party and died! And he died! He was acting the same way. I know very well how you feel right now! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know exactly what I'm talking about! I'm not ashamed of anything I've written, even though I must have been wrong a lot. [[Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] And I'm still wrong. And I'm still wrong! In one party, however, I have not been and this is yours and this is your biggest problem, most likely. Do you know when I went to GERB? To tell you, to tell you when I passed, when I met Borisov! I met Borisov when you ruled with the government of Plamen Oresharski. I was Borisov's critic before you came to power. So thank you for sending me to a nice community where I'm feeling very well right now, thanks to you. If you had ruled a little more adequately, a little more normal, simple political behavior if you had demonstrated, I might have easily been a member of your party now. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: "Oooh! "]] But no! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since day one you have shown that you will never change. You've had a chance to do it a few times. You didn't! Therefore, Mr. Kutev, I do not wish you to experience what I have experienced as a person who comes from a community that has fallen apart in its constituent parts because of political shortsightedness and political inadequacy. That's what happened to my community. Now I am a member of another community, part of my community is also there and ultimately it is a matter of choice. But I also want something out of it, because the subject is really very deep and heavy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u157	The weather, Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u158	Those kids we're talking about today. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They can go out on the street. During communism these children were in concentration camps, colleagues! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u159	Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u160	Homes for children with disabilities!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u161	Mr. Bikov, please! Please! [[The President shall turn off the microphone of the Member of the National Assembly.]] Thank you, Mr. Bikov. [[Replications of the National Representative with MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u162	Any other speeches? Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a statement, then Mr. Rashidov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the statement of Mr. Gurnevski and Mr. Nedyalkov and the presence of Mr. Mikhail Hristov in the Chamber perhaps should humble us. I wasn't going to talk about absences or attendances or vacations. I'm gonna put aside past events and I'm not gonna make any comparisons for before and now. I will not remind you as Mr. Siderov, Mrs. Ninova, that you were Chairman of the Social Committee at the time of the Oresharski cabinet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u164	You used to be a health minister, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u165	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u166	I will not remind you that in 2013 exactly. In August 2013, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and I came to vote on the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. You can check, there's a reference. I mean, you can't charge me personally when you're on vacation, I'm speaking for myself. Maybe nobody in this room, personally I'm not indifferent, not just because I'm a mother to the pain of mothers outside, to the pain of those who aren't outside, but are home because they can't leave their children. I'm not indifferent to my conversation with that man with one foot, as you called him, Mrs. Ninova! This is a man and his name is Ludmil Nedev, at least you could check that, he has a name. This man suffered a personal tragedy in 2004, not yesterday. Yeah, maybe the state we, you before us, didn't help him, didn't support him, didn't care enough about him. This man has poured out his anger before me. Do you think that in a personal capacity...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u167	Yeah, in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u168	...or because of all of us, the 240 we get the same salary? And here questions about bags, shoes and costumes sound ridiculous. I talked to this guy because I'm coming to work, I'm coming out of parliament, I didn't pull him off, I stopped by to hear his problem. I talked to him. He saw me, as well as, yes, you expressed yourself correctly, perhaps millions of other Bulgarian citizens. You saw me because I'm here, and I'm not hiding behind dark glass in a company car because I'm walking the streets. Since 2004, when this tragedy struck him, have you found time to talk to him, the man Lyudmil Nedev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u169	Many times.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u170	Several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u171	Great, great! [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] If you've found one, I'll congratulate you. Me, too. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , and I will personally support you in working in August, you can check how I voted for that moratorium, also, Mrs. Nino, only if you declare to me or guarantee that when the Law is discussed, you will be in the Chamber. [[GERB's line]] "From beginning to end, not only on registration, not only on political declarations. Because you know what, Mrs. Ninova? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, I did a background check. Here's the reference. It's not just about the last few voting days. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The reference is for the last six months. In red are all the days in which you have not been present at all in the National Assembly. In the rest of the days, you will allow me, colleagues, just to mention a few dates: in 89 votes - 3 by Mrs. Nino - 52 - 2 at 62 - 2 and so on. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It turns out that for a month, four weeks, you weren't in plenary at all, and when you were, you did it episodeically. But let's get this over with! Let us really not count the number of votes and non-votes, but count the number of adequate decisions. I expect from you adequate decisions as a party, as leader of Stoletnitsa. There's really no need for populism. The people who chose both us and you expect us to work at nothing else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u172	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Replices? Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Lecheva and then Mr. Popov. I don't see any other political forces. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u173	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, yes, you're not the only one dating these people, we're dating. We have been meeting with Ludmil since 2016, when he was at the protests and when Minister Zornitsa Rusinova was, and even then the man said his pain, only you didn't hear it. Now you can't hear him again. I will tell you that it is not only important to listen to people, but it is important to hear them, because there is a lot of difference between listening and hearing. One more thing I want to ask you, even though you said you wouldn't talk about who was there, who wasn't there. But how can you, how can you have eyes from this tribune to talk about absences when the Prime Minister in a parliamentary republic has appeared for a year and a half twice in parliament? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Can I have such insolence, such thickness?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u174	Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u175	Answer this question: how in a parliamentary republic for one year the Prime Minister has been present twice in Parliament to answer questions? No matter how much you yell at me from a place you can explain to me and yell at me, you cannot explain to the Bulgarian people why the Prime Minister is not there and explain what this is about. Maybe he moved to Brussels? I don't know. And one more thing. Mrs. Atanasova, you have declared that you will support your vacation. A moment ago Volen Siderov said he would support it, which suggests that the whole group will also support the deprivation of vacation in favor of solving the problem of people with disabilities, and now we will see how many of you will fulfill their threat or support for this thing. It is very easy to speak with a humble tone and pretend to be good in front of those people outside who have problems. Why don't you go out there and explain to them when you say you're gonna do the law, you're gonna solve their problems. Go outside and explain it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u176	The weather, Mr. Gokov. Thank you. Second line, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u177	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to address all the highly paid button pushers. You seem to accept the work of the MPs to press the button. Your pressing of buttons depends on the standard of living and the level of every Bulgarian citizen depends on his sense of security in this country. You've done so for the past 10 years. [[GERB lines]] In spite of the 16 billion credits you've drawn, and you've condemned our children on tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u178	The line is to Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u179	Yes, my line is to Mrs. Atanasova and to all the highly paid button pushers. Because I'm tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u180	If you say that one more time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u181	Don't insult your colleagues, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u182	...I will bring out Mr. Tsvetanov's presence, I will bring out Mr. Volen Siderov's presence and so on. This is not a quality and assessment for the work of the MP. The quality of the evaluation is the solutions. With your decisions, we are the last by income, in the last place. [[GERB noises and lines: "Eee! "]] , distance from the previous ones with your decisions and with your push of buttons, because you do not put any intention into what you do as a MP. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the people's representative is not for filling holes, but to fill holes in those laws, which have prescribed our standard of living at the last place in Europe. Sorry, we are not here to confuse concrete, but to offer laws and solutions to every Bulgarian citizen! And if you do not know that the people's representative is not to fill holes, honored by the company "Volja" then go and fill holes in Veliko Tarnovo! It's full of holes! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u183	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Third line, Mr. Popov and Mrs. Atanasova's back. Then there's you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Nedev, we know him. We have known him since 2016, when people with disabilities were protesting here when your minister was not allowed here when you did not support our proposals. When you didn't support them! But what can we expect from you to support proposals or to think about these people when you did not even allow them in the National Assembly? That's your attitude. Too bad you opened the market, you just did! I'll support you if... It's too bad you opened this market on this level. But this shows the level of your responsibility because it is absolutely irresponsible of the management and personally of you to open the market on such a subject and at such a level! It is obvious that you do not understand the work of a leader of a party, of a leader of a parliamentary group, because not with the same enthusiasm you trace the absences of Mr. Borisov, of Mr. Tsvetanov, of Mr. Siderov, of Mr. Mareshki, who is now here, but that day was in Varna to fill holes. Keep an eye on these things, keep an eye on them, and don't open the market like that against those people standing outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mrs. Atanasova for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen replicating, it is a pity that the declarations that you have known Ludmil Nedev since 2016 have not changed anything. You've had two years to change at least one person's routine. The other speeches I will not comment on, especially from people, members of the Committee on Social Affairs, who should be most concerned with the problems of people with disabilities and their protests. I'm not going to comment on the words about the market because the purpose of this debate is misunderstood enough, perhaps?! I don't accept the definition that the MPs are pushers. I think that each and every one of us has been chosen by whom and with what political beliefs he has been conscious that he will protect people's interest and not just push buttons. Too bad, Mrs. Lecheva, you have a different understanding of things! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u188	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Come in for a statement, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u189	Madam President, colleagues! I'm gonna say a few words. I've been provoked by the last statement of a colleague who was talking about his daughter. This was perhaps a very meaningful statement because he put and showed the face of the problem itself. Yeah, there's a problem, but the problem isn't the tent outside, and the problem is inside the people. That's what I wanted to appeal to you not to do demagogy, not to spin and not to do PR with people's pain. Colleague, I'm going to tell you a little story, because it touched me. My father was a 35-year-old miner in Smolyan who died of cancer in my arms. My brother died 35 years old from cancer, a miner in Madan again. My nephew, my brother's son, the boy is 20 years old, died in my arms again from cancer. My mother died too. These pains are no different from the pain of the children and the people who are outside. That is why I say, here you mentioned the word "palatka" a thousand times, and there are other colleagues in the Chamber who know what fear of pain and fear of death is. I see the colleague, I won't mention his name, but I went through it too. So if anyone wants to understand people's pain, these are the people who have come close to this red-and-white tube, and white space. We're not talking about tents here. We're talking about fates of men. Instead of doing PR or politics here, I very much ask you all to be in committees, all using the power levers, putting the important problems on the table and solving them, because all this is not a reason to talk, but a reason to solve them. That's what I was trying to tell you earlier, maybe it's emotional. So whoever wants to do the job, get on the committees, put the problems in place. Yeah, I'm sure the law needs repairs. And as for these, Mrs. Daritkova, how were the daycare centers, the state is building them again. Colleagues, the state will find a way and a solution to this problem. Yeah, there's a problem! The fate of these people is not only children, they are not only damaged, and cancer patients have children and elderly people, this is not even just about children, our people are sick. In both the social and health sectors, it should be sought to solve the problems of the sick Bulgarian people in general. This is the discussion! It's not about spitting on each other, one party humming on the other, the other humming on the first. Not one time here... You've been talking about the tent, the tent, for one week you've only been talking about the tent, you're not talking about the people, colleagues! The tent is not a problem, so the levels will not pray, but pick! I think you have the opportunity to do this job, do it as MPs. I'm not on this committee, but there's a committee....put the questions, the amendments to the Law. I hope there is no government against the health of children and of its people. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Any lines to Mr. Rashidov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Hristov, hold on. Mrs. Ninova wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u191	Madam President, in my speech, I asked that we address our colleagues and, when they speak, say on whose behalf these things are spoken by our voters in Plovdiv, by our voters in Smolyan: those who voted for us have told me to say this. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u192	On whose behalf are you speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u193	Yes, Madam President, in the manner of conduct. Please address the speakers and ask them: how will you vote? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Who authorized you to vote this way from which constituency, which Bulgarian citizens? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, as a representative of the People's Republic, am speaking on behalf of four names which, Mrs. Nino, if you are holding, we can read them. I have to say, because you explained in whose name you were speaking and explained here that almost from the sixth month 2018, someone authorized you to defend his interests, I took account of it, so it took me a while to get a print out of the National Assembly's system. It makes it very clear that we at the Volja. We have granted admission to four persons on 17 May 2017. Then we met with these persons, if you are holding, we can read the names, maybe even with the media we can go and ask the people. After our meeting, they were with you. Then, dear Mrs. Ninova, you or representatives of the BSP have been authorized. I do not know who they have met. Then you were authorized to solve their problems. And I ask you, last August, were you on the beaches while they were waiting for you to solve their problems? And now you need a year and a month later [[Partial applause from GERB]] To talk about being on the beaches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. You're welcome, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u197	Madam President, I would like to ask you, when the question on whose behalf is spoken is asked five times already, give as chairman an answer to this, because asking on whose behalf is also not a debate. Ms. Nino, I speak on behalf of the sick; I speak on behalf of all Bulgarian children, regardless of what disease they are sick; of all sick Bulgarian citizens. I speak on behalf of the ruling party, which I also think is involved with the problem. I speak on behalf of the Bulgarian MPs in the face of GERB. I speak for the people who can believe me. All this is the Bulgarian people! They are not an isolated part of society, so as you represent the Bulgarian state, give everyone who speaks here also the opportunity to be part of this country. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Taskova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u199	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Another day for a year and a half to deal with these people's problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u200	What problem is being addressed to these people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u201	So much humiliation, I don't think they've received so far. And do you know why you insist so much on working in August? Because that's how you appreciate the job. I hope you have the courage to come out in front of these women and apologize to them for using them again today as political gum. It is just sick to watch from the side how you use them and how you have absolutely no intention to change anything, because last year, as my colleague Hristov told you, you accepted them and promised them a bill, and on March 15th you promised that you would look for solutions and stop speeches. But no! You take the job simply to lead empty and meaningless debates. Whether we work the month of August or not doesn't matter, because if anyone wants the job done in this room, it could be done and at this time, which we used again for your meaningless debates. [[Applause from GERB. Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] I will read the draft decision: Project! DECISION repealing the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 45, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Cancels the holiday of the National Assembly from 1 to 31 August 2018. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. They voted 182 MPs: 68, against 10, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. Here's a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u203	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u204	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. I'm rethinking the newly-read solution project. They voted 183 MPs: for 70, against 12, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. [[General applause from GERB.]] Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Before that, I will read you a message: On the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Draft for the Bulgarian Car Chamber, No 854-01-43 has been withdrawn. New requests for the period 22 June 2018 to 28 June 2018: - Asked by the MPs Georgi Stratilov Svilenski and Dimitar Ivanov Danchev to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, on a policy for the development of railway transport. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 July 2018; - Asked by the National Representative Nadia Todorova Petrova to Krassimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, about the state and future development of the network of innovative schools in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 July 2018. DISCLOSURES BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES GEORGI MIHAILOV, GEORGI YORDANOV, ILYAN TIMCHEV AND GEORGI GYOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH KIRYLANYEV ON THE NATIONAL HEALTH CARD OF BULGARIA. Reference to the deliberations. The question by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov was answered in the meeting on 1 June 2018. Friday. At the same meeting, 74 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting on 8 June 2018. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev is prevented from taking part in the parliamentary control on 8 June 2018. The President of the National Assembly redirected the debate on the questions for the next parliamentary control meeting on 15 June 2018. The plenary session on 15 June 2018 was closed due to lack of quorum and no parliamentary control was held. The Parliamentary Control Meeting on 22 June 2018 did not hold any debate on the questioning due to the absence of the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev and the President of the National Assembly redirected the debate on the questioning of the MPs on 29 June 2018. Projects tabled for decisions to be voted on: 1. A draft decision submitted by 74 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria on 1 June 2018, registered at 10.39 p.m.; 2. Draft decision submitted by 10 MPs from the GERB parliamentary group on 13 June 2018, registered at 14.42 p.m. Here you are, Mr. Kutev. You had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u205	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Menda Stoyanova, who is sitting in the Chamber! Once again, perhaps the eleventh, I am making a procedure for the Law on interest-bearings, submitted as a Law on Citizens with Housing Savings Deposits. Once again, I say that this bill has been aged for half a year without joining the Commission of Menda Stoyanova at second reading. That's actually only about one thing: 190 million. BGN, which is due to the Bulgarian citizens, should not be paid. If this bill came in for consideration and rejected it, this would be GERB's attitude to the Bill, which would be honorable. However, you have voted for this bill in the first vote at first reading. By this I say that you are lying to your constituents by claiming that you are for the Bill, and at the same time you are deliberately using procedural tricks so as not to bring it into view in the hope that you will bring it to the end of this Parliament and so the Law will not enter into force because you do not want to pay some 190 million to the Bulgarian citizens who are due to them. In this regard, once again, I say and ask the President of the National Assembly to have the appropriate impact so that the Bill can enter the Committee on Budget and Finance, to be watched to enter for a second reading in the Chamber. Once again, I am telling citizens who are interested in the fact that if they do not rise up and take matters into their own hands, GERB will lie to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki. [[The President Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva is coming down from the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u207	Madam President, honourable Members! First in the manner of conduct while you're still here, Madam President. It wasn't any procedure that Mr. Kutev has told us so far. I would ask you to interrupt them when they make statements in the form of a procedure in the manner of conduct. Otherwise, we of the Will, and especially I, welcome Mrs Ninova's repeated urging to say who represents whom when she speaks. I, of course, will always mention it with the greatest pride, because everyone says and it is practically clear that I have come up with my own name, I have made my own political project, I have appeared to the people with my own programme, they have approved it and everyone says that 99% of the votes given to the party, everyone can make a reference to more than 100,000 Bulgarians in the parliamentary elections have voted for me and over 400,000 Bulgarians in the presidential elections have voted for me. Since you are all making inquiries today, I have made a reference to how many Bulgarians have cast a preferential vote for Mrs. Ninova. I'll ask her to say who she represents every time. It was voted 6969 Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u208	That little?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u209	6969 Bulgarians, if needed around 15 "20 thousand" Bulgarians to support you to be part of this National Assembly, that is, does it have the right to sit here, the banks of the National Assembly, and who does it represent? Not to mention that the number 6969 itself twice 69, that is, once from the UDF and once from the BSP, let's find its place and see if it's right, is it left, is it socialist, is it a saddle and actually saying these 6969 from the UDF, or from BSP? Today we had to vote as defined by everyone, but very specifically by Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov as funny, but I did not see any answers to this mockery that defined the vote by BSP. Strange why?! So we had to vote on this vote and we voted against it. [[Reply from DPS: "This is weird. "]] How I will now explain it to you is not so strange, on the contrary it is absolutely clear and I will tell you why. Watch the imitation of Tuesday's debate. One result that you have achieved and which, in the debate on the previous item of all parliamentary groups, you have declared that it has been achieved is that you have already lowered the lower rating of the institution that you are all representing. As many MPs have mentioned it many times again, we were doing useful things for people on that day. Yeah, they may be small, and they're not small, but you define them as small. Let's have a few holes in Varna, let's make it a man in the village talk in one day. Well, go ahead, do more, fill more holes, fix people with disabilities, their families, the other poor. Do something about it! I'll give you just one example to be specific - 240 MPs, 280 municipalities and mayors - I'm not going down, I'm only talking about the top ministers, the district executives - 1000 people, ten holes a week. [[Laughter and raging]] , per week. Don't laugh, because you haven't done anything in your life and you're smiling. Ten holes a week that don't cost a damn thing takes a few hours, that's 520,000 holes. If you spend an hour for the Bulgarian people, holes that are due to your governments are 520 thousand holes per year. Just one hour, once a week, with a very low budget, which your high salaries, the high-paid as you put it, I don't know which one of you button pushers, you can afford it. I assure you! For a four-year term, that's two million and eighty-thousand holes. Well, we're gonna fix the whole country! [[(Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: "Dagje and ……]] Yeah, that'll be enough for Romania. Yes, if you put a little pressure on yourself not only in idle speaking, but in a job for the benefit of the people, we will fix both the holes and the robberies in the village, we will fix the problems of the parents of children with disabilities, we will fix everything, but it takes work for that. You wanted a job, and when last May, as the colleague said, you were given this proposal, in August you shouldn't be sunbathing on the beaches, but you should have sat here and solved this issue. Only in August of last year [[SIGHS]] , see how you remember when you're comfortable, at the end of the Presidency we have to make fireworks, but in August last year why didn't we sit in the hall instead of baking on the beaches? Then why wasn't there a proposal? What beach was Cornelia Ninova sunbathing on in August last year? [[Replys from BSP and Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, these questions are asked by ordinary people. I ask them here on their behalf because no one gives them the floor, and you, uploaded in your limos, don't come down to them to find out what people think of you. Mr. Ivanov, you're from Varna. We can walk together in Varna, ask people together, tell you in your eyes. [[Laughter and excitement.]] You won't laugh that much. They don't all have places on the beach. [[Noise and lines.]] Not all Varnans are affluent. This example, this is one of the most disgusting things that happened during the transition, the example that you have to be part of the task force in order to have establishments at the port in Varna. You have to see how this happened! Why don't the other Varnans have those rights?! [[Noise and lines.]] We are extremely grateful by observing Mrs. Ninova's orders to say who we represent each time, and we are delighted with what Mr. Zarkov has done as a speech, who has done everything in vain, saying that only Mareshki can do the work in Bulgaria, and after the holes to go to fix customs, health care and so on. Thank you. That's right, Mr. Zarkov! That is correct, and we support you in this statement. We will always quote it and we will continue to claim that we really are the different, the new, the pragmatic, we are doing something that benefits people. We can also arrange the chaos in the education you created. People to whom we order flowers write a chairman with a letter. These are your insane education reforms. For years, people have voted for you, given you their trust, entrusted you with their future, and what do they get? What do they get? Corruption, cartels, misery and humiliation, robbing, suffering! This won't be endless, colleagues! Another MP, a socialist, used the donation that we made, personally I, to a football club, was not of one million, of three million levs to define me as Borisov's servant. There is no Bulgarian citizen who doubt that Veselin Mareshki can be a servant to anyone other than the Bulgarian people. There's no doubt about it! Come out, ask people! And yesterday, and today I'm walking free on the streets, not behind the dark glass, walking on the streets, because I know what I've done, and the election shows it. If I have made a donation of three million, not one million, as the socialist MP said, who left the Bulgarian citizens on three leva pension, on three dollars salary, on misery, hunger, humiliation, palace camps? Who, if not you?! You gave the tone and I as part of this people who suffered it on their backs, had the opportunity to say some of the things already. In 1991 and 1992 it was a good thing it was the Red Cross for people like me and those who were in front of the tent camps that were the result of your governments, we suffered and had nothing to feed our children. How can we call them these politicians, these political parties, other than Satan's servants, servants of the devil, to mock the Bulgarian people and to condemn them to poverty, ignorance, illiteracy, pennilessness, lack of health? What do we call them? You have forgotten these things, socialist comrades, but the Bulgarian people will not forget them! With each vote, there is a lot of talk about alternatives to power. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I only have two sentences. For us at the moment there are two alternatives: one is constantly screaming, making noise, talking to the cameras, but nothing is doing, so there is no way to support it in its actions, which are only for the cameras. The other alternative is modest, you see still small, it obeys the rules, does not scream in the hall, is always brought up. We are the active alternative. BSP is from the past, a participant in a failed transition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u210	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u211	Last sentence. Will is the future! There was no way to support the Socialists today, because that means looking back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u212	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u213	The path of our people and of Bulgaria is ahead and will be part of it! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u214	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u215	Your name has not been mentioned. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u216	Choose the procedure, it may be a personal explanation or in the manner of conduct, I have grounds for both.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u217	It doesn't matter. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u218	Dear Mr. Mareshki! You quoted me, Mr. Mareshki, as saying, and confirming, in your colleague's reply, that once you've filled the holes, you should go take care of prison security, military and police uniforms and so on. You quoted me correctly, but you didn't understand me, and I don't think you'll ever be able to understand me. I'm not mad at you because I don't understand you either, to tell you the truth. [[Reply.]] I don't understand how you're voting that you're going to rest because you think we should work? I don't understand, dear Mr. Mareshki, how you support a government... [[The National Representative Veselin Mareshki gives lines to the speaker, leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u219	Mr. Mareshki, please don't engage in dialogue with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u220	...and then you say you have to fill the holes yourself? I don't understand, and I'm never gonna find out what this behavior is, where you make some crazy account of how many holes, how you fill them out and accuse others of populism? I don't think I'll ever know! What you're wrong and I want to tell you is a pity that you've come out. It's in your claim that you're different. You're not different at all, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u221	Mr. Zarkov, I'm gonna have to ask you to step into the personal explanation procedure. You're entering another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u222	There have been many like you before, there will probably be more in the future, and that is a great responsibility for our parliament. Dear Minister, I'm addressing you. At what level do we decide to lead the debate? In the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Chairman. You didn't hear them mention my name, you didn't hear them mention the name of colleagues and the chairman of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u223	It wasn't in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u224	You don't hear them insulting them? Let's say you're hearing selective, but if you're reading the Rules that say there's no right to a declaration on behalf of a group of items that were on the agenda. That was the point of no confidence vote, that was the point of vacation. Dear Mr. President, it is not only the group of Mr. Mareshki who make such speeches that do not make dignity to our Parliament. It's our fault, our fault, and we have to end it once and for all. Please enter your authority! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u225	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Just about five minutes ago, the chairman of the Political Party, Volya, in part of the lottore that he poured out from the stands, mentioned an honest untruth, not to tell a lie. He turned to me and referred to me as the owner of beach restaurants. Then he ran away because he saw that I wanted a personal explanation. He knows very well, it can be opened in the name records and it can be seen that I do not have restaurants on the beach, unlike him, who has a house on the beach. He ran away because he knew what I was going to say was living factology. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u227	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are continuing to debate on asking. Which of the importers will present the question and ask the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u228	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Honourable Members, this debate should have taken place a few weeks ago when the project was presented by the Ministry of Health and the discussion would benefit more. And now the general health community does not accept this second version of the National Health Card and the discussion would be useful. First of all, because the management of the Ministry of Health should take into account that the first version of the National Health Card was rejected by the judicial authorities because of a factual error, but the real reason was that it does not define and adequately provide the needs of Bulgarian citizens of sufficient volume and quality medical care. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but it seems to me that with the second version of the National Health Card we're on this road now. What are the main reasons for this? First of all, that the creation of a National Health Card requires verified health information. I think no one doubts that currently our health statistics do not present the true evidence of morbidity, the needs of hospitalization and the need for drug therapy, but a modified information on the algorithm of the so-called clinical path. The decision here is said to be a health care service. I don't know what should happen to the next Health Minister from GERB, taking office, promising to switch to electronic health information in health care, explaining that the necessary funds are provided, and finally getting nothing?! Of the main issues discussed in the National Health Card, due to the limited time, I will only address two.. the hospital beds and the staff, hoping that the other statements will affect the other problems as well. What are the needs of hospital beds? For quite some time, various specialists have been evaluating us with reasoning that hospital beds in Bulgaria are too many, that we are almost out of place in the world, and that this was the main reason for the lack of financial resources in the healthcare system. What can Austria and Germany say where hospital beds are more than in Bulgaria? Indeed, by the number of hospital beds for active treatment we are in front of statistics, especially in large cities, but for this there are two main reasons. First, the number of beds for healing and rehabilitation in Bulgaria is negligible and the beds for active treatment are required to compensate for this shortage. And secondly, when directing the main part of the medical activity from the hospital in outpatient care, where it is economically more cost-effective, they just don't happen. After all, in the latest version of the National Health Card, the number of beds required is calculated based on 75% employment, which is surprising because it has always been calculated so far on a 70% employment basis and 30% free emergency fund. This statistical sealing of possible hospitalizations leads naturally to the conclusion that we need a smaller number of beds. The beds in the National Health Card are defined at regional and regional level and lacks the main level of the national health card. This gives the impression that in large cities there are too many beds and in less populated ones less. And it is not commented that in larger cities patients from all regions of the country are looking for better medical care, which in their regions is missing and therefore more beds have been discovered here. This particularly affects some medical disciplines such as neurosurgery, cardiosurgery, vascular surgery, various specialties, pediatrics and others. We can also highlight some obvious misunderstandings in the proposed map. For the districts of Stara Zagora, where there is a Faculty of Medicine, Yambol and Pazardzhik are provided zero beds for urology activities. For Sliven district, one bed for vascular surgery. For Silistra district, zero beds for orthopedic and traumatic activities. I hope it is a mistake that the defined needs for common and clinical pathology structures are one for an area, including Plovdiv, Varna, Pleven and Stara Zagora. I believe that these facts do not need any comment. This may be the place to mention the serious discrepancy in the calculation of hospital bed needs between some district health committees and national. As it turns out, they just seem to have worked on different methodologies. Nothing bad so far, guys. The problem is that trying is the need for hospital beds and their capacity to become a basic criterion for financing hospital healthcare. After 28 years of reform under the call: The money follows the patient, we are now offered to do the reform under the call: "The patient follows the money." I will explain the patient should find his own medical facility, which has a free financial limit to treat his illness, and that is, given that the patient is entitled to a free choice where he can be treated. There are also serious problems in calculating the needs of medical personnel. In doctors, things are relatively good... we are in seventh place in insurance with doctors in Europe. After all, in Bulgaria we have six medical universities, in the autumn will probably reveal another one in Burgas. Our medical universities are too much for the country's scale and it is necessary to assess whether it is economically profitable to produce staff seeking realization mainly abroad. However, that is not the case with specialization in medicine. The problem of providing staff in certain disciplines such as general and clinical pathology, anesthesiology, resuscitation, pediatrics is, to say the least, worrying. The reason is that the state escaped from funding specialization in medicine and provided it to hospitals, and they have limited financial resources. On top of that, the National Health Card does not recognise doctors as performers of medical care without specialty and during their specialization they must be supported by other colleagues. However, tragic is the situation in providing nurses, midwifes and lab technicians. And here again surprises: the European criterion doctor is a one-to-two (one doctor, two sisters) and a one-to-four (one doctor, four sisters). The criterion on the National Health Card is one-to-one. Who calculated it? Who suggested it and who imposed it? I will answer: in order to get closer to the existing situation and not panic. And he's not even one-to-one. With 31,000 doctors and 9,000 dentists, we have 27,000 practicing sisters and a significant part in retirement and pre-retirement age. In some regions, for example Smolyan, we have only 50% of the necessary nurses, in Yambol region, the number of nurses is less than one third of the minimum needs, and in very few other areas is the same situation. On these issues, the health card is silent. My fellow Members, in our speeches in the Committee on Health and in plenary, we have repeatedly stated that we rely on the National Health Card as the main component of the health system. We now have a National Health Card approved by the Council of Ministers, but we cannot accept this option because there is too much articulation in it because it is calculated on unverified health information. And in the end, this health card does not fulfil its main objective of presenting the needs of affordable and quality medical care for all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their residence. We therefore make the following proposal for a decision on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: "1." By 1 August 2018, the Minister of Health shall present a corrected model of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, taking into account the opinions of the word and trade union organizations, as well as the Committee on Health in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. 2. Within the same period, to present a specific model of health insurance as well as financial and administrative management of the health system. 3. Based on the new model by t. 2 and the corrected National Health Card to present a clear plan for stabilisation of critical district and municipal hospitals. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u229	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u230	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u231	You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, because today this debate we are having here for the National Health Card is extremely important. It is extremely impressive the absence, especially of colleagues from GERB. Obviously, this problem does not concern them, they do not want to discuss, they do not even want to support the solution. The absence of Mrs. Atanasova is extremely impressive, a former health minister who is at the root of all health problems. The minister who was known for closing hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u233	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov. Concentrate on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u234	Please invite colleagues from GERB to attend the Chamber so that they can defend their draft decision. And Mr. Tsvetanov is absent, the leadership of GERB party is absent at the moment. It's an extremely important topic. Their minister is here. There's no one to protect him. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u235	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The Quaestors could invite the MPs from all parliamentary groups to enter the Chamber. Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, to present the draft decision you have submitted with a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the disparaging attitude of the opposition to the present members of the Political Party GERB and, above all, of the Health Commission, I will try to argue and defend our draft decision. I believe that the subject of the discussion of the National Health Card, given your long absence and the procedural grasps you have applied, is no longer really of interest. It doesn't create tension either, because it's been functioning for over a month. In this regard, I believe that the system did not change its way of working from the adopted and approved by the Council of Ministers National Health Card, and the Ministry of Health simply implemented the current legislative framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u237	The project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u238	Under the current legislative framework, the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care are defined and planned on a territorial basis through the National Health Card through which national health policy is implemented. This is the purpose of the National Health Card. To whom does the card tell him is a question of what he is looking for in it and whether he is looking for a political dividend from something that should have been a fact long ago. Why does the National Health Card have to be a fact? Because we in time have a disproportionate expansion of various types of medical care and various types of medical facilities. The main purpose of this map is to see the stocks and to be able to plan from now on the development of the sector so that we have the same access of all Bulgarian citizens to medical care. Whether the claim was properly selected was a question of comments and discussion when it was announced by the Ministry for public consultation, because I am convinced that all procedures for the implementation of this national card were strictly respected by the Minister of Health, given that the previous one precisely for procedural reasons was cancelled by the court. I would like to stress that the final version of the National Health Card includes 33,481 beds, that is, after the period of discussion, 608 more beds have been added, and this period has been verified and all data can be seen. Therefore, anyone who has had any objection from the regional committees to the national committee whether this objection has been taken into account if it has been justified. On the Ministry's website, all this information is available and it is evident that the initial technical errors that you have quoted here quite by accident, although they have been corrected subsequently, I would not say that you were deliberately quoting, have been corrected. There really were technical errors in the original version. In the course of the dialogue are changed and the different parameters in the National Health Card are mainly regarding beds. Let's just say that the National Health Card does not only talk about beds, does not only talk about hospital care and this is the big problem of Bulgarian healthcare at the moment With this challenge, we need to deal with it. The fact is that with these beds, estimated at 75% usability, 2 409 326 hospitalizations can be provided which took place in 2017. Even with higher useability of these beds can be provided additionally around 41,000 hospitalizations. This means that 46% of the 7-million-dollar population of Bulgaria can be treated in a hospital. Those are the possibilities. Is this good for the health system? I'm going to say very clearly not, because we have been neglecting prevention and prevention over the years, neglecting outpatient medical care. And I say it quite responsibly from the point of view that we have failed in time to change the situation so that extra-hospital help can take on most of the cases so as not to get to the expensive hospital treatment. I would also like to stress the differences with the European parameters, because if 17 340 hospitalizations are required in the European Union of 100 000 population, in Bulgaria this figure is 31 587, i.e. twice as much. In this sense, we must have a National Health Card, which from now on does not allow in places where we have an excessive supply of hospital care, to build new medical facilities, but rather to look for a solution to optimize existing ones. I also believe that the legal parameters clearly outline when the National Health Card can be updated and can be used actively enough legal text...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u239	Is this a statement or a presentation of the decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u240	Please remain patient, honourable Members. On extensive topics he spoke and presented the draft decision and the previous Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u241	And we made a note of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u242	I understand you're making a point. Then you can correct me, but in order to formulate my speech, I have to tell the story, so let me make the whole presentation so that I can get to the proposal for a draft decision that really relates to a debate on the National Health Card. We believe that in order to solve all the problems highlighted by colleagues in the previous speech, of course, those not politically used, we must look for a solution to improve the health insurance model. That is why our proposal for a draft decision is as follows. "1." By 30 September 2018, the Minister of Health shall present to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly the Concept for the Development of Health Insurance in Bulgaria and for sectoral reforms in the health system with specific objectives and deadlines for their implementation. 2. The concept of t. 1 to be presented after a wide public discussion with all stakeholders, and the results of the discussion to be presented to the Committee on Health at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Before we find out the debates, the allocation of time in relation to the implementation of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Parliamentary Group of GERB I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my speech, I want to do two things. First of all, let me apologize for what you heard before the debate began. I'm sorry you saw this face of the Bulgarian Parliament. I hope, with the debate already under way, we can erase the bad impressions that may have occurred in you. Secondly, starting my speech to strongly object to the honourable President of the Health Commission, not on our procedural terms, the debate has become obsolete, the debate has been postponed for objective reasons. One was twice your absence, and the second time was an extremely incorrect one, not to say outrageous way, of putting overtime without overtime points.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u245	Get to the point, Mr. Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u246	Let us be precise and not to throw accusations at the beginning of the debate, and not to turn it into the previous debate, which has become completely distorted from the subject of the possibility of speeding up legislation for the benefit of disabled people. I would not like to repeat the words of my colleague, who spoke before me by our parliamentary group, but I would like to draw attention to a few fundamental aspects. What is the role of the Health Card is clear to all who are involved in healthcare. It must present the personnel resource assurance and highlight the highlights for change. It is a guide lever in the management of the health system. To make all this happen, the members of the Health Commission and colleagues from different professional communities were also hoping. However, you remember, Mr. Minister, that at the very first discussion in the Health Commission, not a single professional community, not the Doctor's Union, not the Association of Private Hospitals, nor the Association of Municipal Hospitals supported the draft health card presented at the time. I do not have these remarks to you personally, as it is not serious to believe that the Minister of Health has drawn up the map. I'm going to say a few basic things that happened and were revealed in public space. Firstly, the opinion of the regional committees which drew up the regional health cards was not taken into account in the construction of the National Health Card. Secondly, the problem of the Health Card discussion has turned, who knows why, around the beds, and you, as a person who has been President of the Cashier's Supervisory Board for years, know that the Cashier pays for business and not for beds. Wrong putting the foundation of the problem led to such serious deviations in the whole discussion. It should be noted that I did my best to examine the National Health Card carefully, I can show it to the honourable Members in all areas, regardless of the arguments that were put forward in the methodology and in its presentation, the beds are seriously reduced. In only three of them are increased, and in some areas that are next to centers that are oversaturated with both personnel resources and hospital facilities and bed facilities. Some have been used during the reform of the Health Card, as my colleagues have said before me, technical details, but no serious question has been answered: what are the needs of the Health Card, and that is the meaning of the Health Card, in the various regions of the country. And here already the problems, the protests have gone beyond the sphere of professional alliances. I can show the honourable Members of the Chamber they have come to you as well. [[shows documents]] , the protest note from Varna region, the address of the district governor of Blagoevgrad to you. The exact arguments of the colleagues from Varna region, of the colleagues from Blagoevgrad, who argue and, I suppose, that my colleagues will also give their views on how the problem has not been dealt with successfully and unprofessionally, only for the beds, and nothing else, and how this health card has actually created a prerequisite which has been declared in the declaration of the Bulgarian Medical Union at the 68th Council, the danger of using the Health Card, which unfortunately has only become a document that we have hung on the wall................................ since the contracts were concluded on the beds of the old health card and the previous contract, in an opportunity which, fortunately, has not yet been made to reduce the funding of the health system. All this gave us the impression that much more consensus is needed in the realization and promulgation of documents that affect general Bulgarian healthcare. Because my colleagues before me and Dr. Daritkova and my colleague Yordanov have carefully and rightly explained that the National Health Card is related to all the levers of health management, I will allow myself here in a few words to remind you of all the documents that have been issued in the last 8 months and which have caused a response, unfortunately, this response is too controversial, I do not want to say negative, but it requires serious corrections. The first document was the hospital's financial management document. A document that we all need, which, however, blew up the Association of Regional Hospitals and came to declarations, to explanations, to debates in the Health Commission, which, unfortunately, have not yet found their real solution. Secondly, this is the methodology for the conclusion of contracts of medical institutions, which was published, in which there are literally... in words to the non-visible, firstly, it is copied from the old methodology, but secondly, there are, so to speak, parcels that have already fallen into court. Thirdly, the methodology for the recovery of municipal hospitals, which you gave conscientiously to the management of the Health Commission and which was also, so to speak, contrary to the opinion of the Association of Municipal Hospitals. I do not want to engage in many other citizens in the media space statements of the National Health Insurance Fund, to which you formally have no direct regard as a policy: the issue of controlling the costs of medicines; the question of controlling radiation therapy, which was then moved to the direction that... Only indicative values are sought. In a word, out of all these documents, I can also bring out more of them, that most of the levers for health management are working in a closed circle, there is no public discussion, and before that professional discussion, there is no political discussion on these issues. Now, because it was mentioned here by the honourable Members that the general issue that our political power has been putting since May last year and with which you, for the first time as a minister and a principal, agreed in December 2017, that the current management and financing of the health system is an exhausted model and that we need a new model, so far, we are getting one of the following promises of entry without the health card, as well as for the other documents that were issued, to have a preliminary professional political discussion, in order not to reach the time for the new budget year to be transformed, imposed and implemented, at the end of September, to present a new health insurance model, to say so, quite professionally, this means that it has no time for the new budget year to be transformed, imposed and implemented. You know as a financier that this is absolutely impossible. Our desire and our Project for a solution are much more real, give a relatively longer time for public, professional and political discussion. I hope this is the Rubicon from which it will be understood whether the new team of the Ministry has passed 10 months, this new team is no longer new if this does not happen if there is no such professional discussion, if there is no such political discussion, then this new model will hang in the air and will result as another document that society and the professional community do not understand. I call on everyone in this House, although it is rather thin, unfortunately, given the importance of the problem we are discussing, in our speeches, and you in your speech to seek not the mutual attacks, but the essence of the problem that Bulgarian patients and the Bulgarian nation need. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u247	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Dr. Jaffer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Unlike BSP colleagues, we are not so disappointed with this health card. We're not disappointed because we didn't have much of an expectation. I do not think that to expect that the National Health Card will solve all the problems accumulated over the years in the health system is realistic. Nevertheless, it must be said that the development and process of discussion and adoption of the Health Card are a symbol of chaos in its purpose, in its intentions and in its time limits. Firstly, it was stated that this was a long-term document, then there was a statement from the team of the Ministry of Health that after a year, within a year, it would actually be changed. Firstly, it was said that contracts with medical institutions would be concluded on the basis of this health card, then talked about anexics. We think the philosophy of this National Health Card is wrong. We have also stated it in the Commission, and I will say it from the stands of the National Assembly: we believe that the Health Card should give the deficits, should try to solve the problems in these regions where there is difficulty in accessing healthcare. Needless to expect the Health Card to solve fiscal problems, although this is what the government wants to see right now. The wrong philosophy, we said it and again we will say that it will most likely lead to the concentration of health care, health care in five major cities and in another five years access in the other parts of the country will be extremely difficult. These disproportions, unfortunately, will be deepened if the problems she is betting are not resolved. We have stated it and we will say again: beds are at the center of this health card! Overfiscation in beds, not in the patient's problems and in access to healthcare is extremely vicious. The aim of 100% use of surgical beds is brutally and I quote to you a fellow surgeon who said it in one of the areas when discussing there at the regional level of the Health Card. It is extremely wicked to talk about how the Health Card provides 2 million. 400,000. Hospitalizations. Is it not the task of any health care system to provide prevention, prevention, early diagnosis and that of outpatient care? This cannot be a reason for boasting about how the health card provides with this usability of the beds two million and just how many thousands of hospitalizations you are so that people can be treated in the hospital. Yes, they will be treated if they have the means to go to the municipal hospital, if it hasn't gone bankrupt, or to the county hospital. Otherwise, they need to seek salvation in one of the university hospitals, which is most often 150 miles [200 km] away. We believe that the main characteristics that are characteristic of this health card are several and show dangerous trends of deepening. Deepening the imbalances that I have already talked about over-proposing in the capital and in several other cities at the expense of other regions, further limits. In fact, limiting the number of beds is another narrowing down of those limits that exist for all hospitals anyway. That is, we say to them: we are giving you these funds for activity, but we are putting another, narrower limit, which is for the number of beds and you cannot go outside them, despite the explanations that there are flexible mechanisms that will be applied. We believe that a huge part of the misunderstandings and in the process of discussion came from the gap in the methodologies that they applied and on which the regional health committees and those that were then implemented at national level were working. In any case, this health card, as well as the previous one, has already been stated that it will be prosecuted by the Association of Municipal Hospitals, by the Association of Private Hospitals and by the NGO, which deals with the problems of patients' rights in healthcare. That's not a fact yet. It'll probably work, though. Maybe they're preparing their motives. Maybe they'll attack together in court or separately, it doesn't matter. We believe, Mr. Minister, that you should really focus your efforts on presenting the new health insurance model. This is not something that needs to be kept in a deep secret, but, on the contrary, to be widely discussed in order to obtain the broadest possible support........... to be an example of how a consensus should happen in healthcare, for which we appeal, without exception. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u249	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Declaration".]] Would you hold on, let's see if there's any lines to Dr. Jeffer. Is there? No, you won't. On behalf of the group Mr. Simov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u250	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the last week Bulgaria gets up and lies with the mental dramas and emotional outbursts of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. From the mythical cursing:.. Simply unhappy, low-down, liars yellow to oaths made unclear to whom, that if it were proved to be an island, he would resign. While we were crunching popcorn in front of this soap opera, however, a few very important other news remained in the darkness of stability. A large national television stopped a broadcast which was dedicated to Boyko Borisov, and in another national media the emissaries of GERB began to deal with the last remaining critical journalists and lead them to situations in which they inevitably throw resignations or omerzens to leave the profession. Free speech and journalism in Bulgaria are in an obvious crisis and the reasons are therefore entirely political. It is time to say it openly: in our country there is political censorship and we knew it before they cut the transmission of Milen Tsvetkov. We will probably have to repeat it at least a few more times before another act of suffocation of journalistic freedom takes place in front of our eyes. Just a few weeks ago, here in this Chamber, we had a debate on freedom of speech, which may remain the only one, at least, until the other report of the Council for Electronic Media. Then we heard a magnificent thesis: The freedom of speech is the responsibility of the journalists themselves. However, journalists themselves have been saying from year to year that they feel more and more threatened. For 10 years Bulgaria fell from 64th to 111th place in the Freedom of Speech ranking. And here we won't even dwell on the question: is this ranking correct or not? The only thing that matters is that it is based on the opinions of journalists. Opinions that obviously cannot be heard in any other way, and that is now a sure mark of censorship. By the way, again in this hall it was noted that in Bulgaria, thank God, no journalists were killed. Yes, it is. In Bulgaria there are shot topics. There are topics that cannot be broadcast; analyses that cannot be done; opinions that have nowhere to be shared. And that's a political problem now. Because we well read the opinion of the media, which had stopped the transmission the journalistic standards of objectivity were violated! I ask: how do these standards always apply only when it comes to Boyko Borisov? How is it that once this high journalistic conscience did not decide to apply these standards of political power, outside the government, to ordinary people? The problem is not even in the media itself, but in the created public environment, where any opinion against power has economic consequences. Where to disturb the government with an awkward question, you can pay with dismissal or withdrawal of accreditation from parliament. The problem of freedom of speech is the owners of media. We do not interfere with them, announced about a month ago the main user of journalistic standards in Bulgaria. With all due respect to him, from his first days of power in 2009 his behaviour is quite the opposite. Wasn't Borisov the man who wrote a letter to the editor-in-chief of big newspapers to ask them if he had ever censored them?! And, of course, he received only and only answers: the obvious sign of great freedom. As for the fact that freedom is about media owners, it is good that GERB party should bring this fact to the knowledge of its MEPs, who voted in May in the European Parliament on a resolution calling on states to take action to ensure media pluralism and independence. According to this document, the responsibility of lawmakers, publishers and journalists of freedom of speech is shared. Each political force also has a responsibility for this freedom, and the attempt to escape it is essentially a way of stepping on that freedom. As for the owners of the media, I hope someday at least one of them gets the courage to make public the contents of his phone and the texts. I am convinced that from there we will learn a different and alternative version of how journalism is done in Bulgaria. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] For all who do not want to believe in the relationship between the political situation and the freedom of speech, I will give an example with a figure of.......................... and abstention............................................................... This is the most democratic result of a vote that I have managed to find from a national forum of GERB party 1079 for abstention! [[Heckling]] In such a consensus, what freedom of speech can we talk about? With your hands up so high, can you even mention the word democracy without blushing with inconvenience? And when a party does not know freedom within itself, how will it defend and value free speech at all? In a party with such unanimity, any different opinion will immediately be shot with the accusation: the false news. [[GERB lines.]] I see that colleagues from GERB began to become irritated by the other position. Here, this is the thin thread between politics and the right to expression: when in power is a party that does not know freedom, it cannot be a guarantee of any freedom of speech or thought. Thinking people, honourable colleagues of GERB, have the property to be disagreeable, and in our eyes some have raised unanimity to a sectarian cult. [[Single applause.]] During the period of socialism was told an anecdote about the Romanian television station how the spokeswoman addressed the audience not with a good evening, honourable viewers! I fear that Bulgaria has become a country where old jokes come true as a curse. Everything that has been happening in recent days has led us to this very situation. All media will collectively start their news with: Good evening, Mr. Borisov! and then the issue of freedom of speech will be finalized, will get the hell out of the prime minister's head like so many other annoying things. [[GERB lines.]] Thank you very much, thank you for yelling. You have proved me right. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u251	Thank you, Mr. Simov. We continue with speeches. Dr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u252	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I didn't want to start talking about beds because health reform is not just focused on the number of beds as well as the health card itself, but I will start there. All opinional organizations claim that the new health card shortens 6000 beds. However, the Minister's accounts are different. He says 600 beds are revealed. If the first ones are right, this could contribute to the bankruptcy of more hospitals and to the closure of more wards in the country. The old health card fell in court, but beds were cut off. The new one offers a new abbreviation. This will lead to unpredictable consequences. However, assuming the minister is right and is behind the document drawn up by his team, the question remains why he claims that he will present a new health card at the beginning of next year. The health card took so long that accepting it now in the middle of this year makes it practically useless. The way the map was drawn also raises questions. There was no wide public discussion. The comments of many interested parties in the system were not taken into account. This inevitably led to absurd discrepancies in the first version, which were thus presented as normal technical errors. However, the lack of discussion and consensus remains the bitter impression that the new health card will serve someone's interests and open a door for hidden privatisation without public mentioning it. The health card is a fundamental document, but it does not solve much of the problems in the system itself. Its publication, for example, had to be accompanied by a change of some of the medical standards. And now there are 12 medical standards missing in basic medical specialties such as surgery, cardiology, urology, etc. Last but not least, we need to say something about the future of health care. The new health card is just a picture of the current state. It's not very different from the last one. It has not given us the opportunity for the great reform that the Ministry has promised us for a year now. Where are the vision and reforming potential in the Map that so much is being talked about? The most strategic document in healthcare comes before the cardinal reform plan and is a repetition of the old one. Your philosophy is wrong. It is mechanically and without vision in determining the needs for medical care in the country. I will also give an example of a missed opportunity. Demographic collapse affects the whole system, but mostly municipal hospitals. At the same time, it has long been said that the administrative division of Bulgaria is outdated and does not reflect the demographic problems. The new health card had to lay down a new administrative division and thus allow health policies to have a regional character. In conclusion, apparently, the fate of the new health card will follow the fate of the old one. It became clear that the Bulgarian Medical Union will also challenge this health card in court. And I ask: who will take the political responsibility if the court cancels this health card? I find it unacceptable once again to prove that the executive power in the face of the Ministry does not have the potential and capacity to form a strategic, long-term and constructive policy in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u253	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. - What's the line? Statements? Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we've all talked about beds. I know that I have only one minute and I will say: let us pay serious attention to the highly specialised activities or high-tech medical services that are improperly distributed are indeed in certain regions and access to them is difficult for Bulgarian citizens, and we must provide them and do so that this disproportion does not exist. They are also related to the number of beds, because most of them require it may be a one-day hospitalization. Each of us knows that when given an anesthesia, the patient should spend a certain amount of time in order to be able to perform the procedure properly. Let the number of such so-called clinical procedures be included in hospital beds. And in order not to be in the system, as everyone before me has said, talking, chaos, so that there are no disproportions in the system, so that we do not allow the system to make savings, and not satisfy the needs of citizens, so that we do not destroy our state and municipal health, let us support our proposal for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u255	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, Dr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u256	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I've been listening carefully to the talkers. We're looking at the National Health Card today. I would like to draw attention to everyone here who is present and understand the topic that the National Health Card does not solve health problems. I'm starting here because there's a lot of talking about it here. The National Health Card aims to show a real picture at the time of existing hospitals, to make a map, an analysis of what we have to date. When a person starts doing something, building something, he makes a plan and a map. When we talk about healthcare reforms, we must have a real picture of existing and active hospitals. Here I heard from the stands all sorts of opinions about the map. Much of those present who have spoken do not understand the meaning of this map. What do I mean? This map in no way harms medical institutions. As has been said, we have to take care of the patients and think about the patients. The number of patients and patients served in a hospital cannot in any case be a sign of bed equality and nowhere, in any way the card restricts the reception of patients, fellow Members, first of all. Secondly, in no way can I agree with you here that the map will solve problems that have been accumulated for decades. It's just an instrument in the hands of the Minister. Whether he will be Ananiev, whether he will be anyone else, it doesn't matter. This is an instrument and a path to reform that our colleague has just spoken about here. This is an instrument and a first step so that we can move on to what is called the so-called "power healthcare." We need to get in, as they say, to arrange the house. We need to know how many hospitals we have, where we have them. Then, what capacity of people, of patients they serve. Hence, when we have this real-time picture, respectively, we will be able to guide patients accordingly, to give or not give permission to build new hospitals where they should not. Here it was also said that there are places where we have oversaturation with medical facilities. Yeah, that's right, and we need to take that into account. We need to point out in these years of chaos in the construction of medical facilities, here I can say that when invasive cardiology started to occur, such hospitals, as they say, and in every small area were created such hospitals. Therefore, order had to be put in order and this order was introduced precisely by the introduction of an electronic system to account for these patients in real time. This instrument in the Minister's hands will enable the second step, namely the introduction of eHealth. After the introduction of e-health with all aspects, starting from the E-Health Card, we will then be able to talk precisely about overgrowth and, accordingly, introducing a new financial system to finance health care. The health problems are huge, there are a lot of them, and I think that here, discussing the Health Card, you should see only a real picture of the currently existing hospitals, where we can actually go further, so that we can build on this system. The upgrade can happen, again I say, once this map is introduced, the introduction of an electronic health card, in general of e-health and then let's talk about additional health insurance, whether it will be insurance, so that we can have additional funds. The funds, you see, are short in healthcare from year to year. Science technologies, you see.. every day are becoming more and more comprehensive, more expensive, and that is why healthcare is gasping up and can't withstand the system. I think this might actually be the basis for a dialogue. And here I will ask a rhetorical question: you are all criticizing, but I think that all MPs in this National Assembly have the opportunity to introduce bills, to give solutions to problems put, but I do not see such to date, as far as we are concerned, here we are talking about general changes. The map does not put such serious tasks ahead of it, so colleagues, all of us who have been dealing with healthcare for years, I think we are aware of the many problems accumulated and with this health card I think we will be able to say "Stop" to the need for unnecessary medical facilities created only for commercial purposes and for those who create them, and not for patients and from now on to put things on a solid basis to put the funds, as you can see, they are increased every year, and they can be used in the most rational way with a view to a good medical service for our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u257	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov. [[Noise and lines.]] Eleven seconds!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u258	On such an important subject, I also ask you for normal tolerance, Madam President. Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, first of all, in relation to your speech, the photo, unfortunately, which you are talking about, has not proved to be true, nor has it been timely. Secondly, the issue of chaos with the introduction of intervention clinics in cardiology into the system has been introduced by you through your management. [[Noise and lines.]] And thirdly, the electronic control and electronic information system is a mantra that you've been repeating for a year and a half. Nothing in this aspect is happening. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u259	Please get it over with! Thank you. Another line? I won't. Docent Ivanov, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u260	Dear Professor Mihailov, I do not know how you imagine the electronic system and it at state level, but you know very well that you have managed a hospital when you have to make an electronic information system of a medical establishment that it must be, first, adaptive, it must be upbuilding. Isn't that right? All these conditions for the creation of an electronic health system must be built at national level. I can talk to you for many hours on this subject, but I will say: yes, indeed, you are right. We also want things to happen as quickly as possible, only that this electronic system, you know how many times I will list from 2001, when the electronic system was designed, we pass in 2005, when the electronic systems were made only in the sphere of municipal hospitals and each municipal hospital began to build an electronic system. Then the Ministry started building an electronic system. Health insurance also started building a system. And at some point, when you, as a ruler as you were, have to unite all of this, all systems have to be able to talk to each other, they have to be able to communicate with each other, they have to be able to build on each other. All this takes time and thought, and that is why I also want things to happen quickly. And to return the line, what did we do? We introduced the electronic hospital and you also know that all personal doctors and specialists in the hospital system give their reports electronically, so there are steps that you should also take into account. I believe that with the ambition that this government has set itself and this Chamber of Minister Ananiev, I believe that we will take good steps in building the electronic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u261	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Before I give the floor to Minister Ananiev, I would like to make sure that there are no more speeches. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened with great attention to the debate on the topic of the National Health Card, although I have seen two types of questions in your speeches, which are strategic and related to the development of the health care system, and the others, which were specific to the National Health Card. I would like to start with the strategic questions that have been put here. We are all convinced that this model, which currently exists in our country, cannot continue to be applied in practice in the future, that is, we need to change the model. I have told you several times that the management of the Ministry of Health is working on the new model. Today I can tell you that not only one, I will propose two alternative models for future healthcare in our country. I will put it to public discussion, as you all want, with all parliamentary and extraparliamentary political forces, with all agreed organisations, patient organisations, scientific organisations, with, of course, the Health Commission, with the Budget Commission, with the Social Committee, with all the people who are related to this issue. I'll go to them myself and present the two models. Let these two models be discussed and we all... [[Noise and lines.]] Sorry, I don't think you're listening right now! [[Heckling]] When presenting these two alternative models of the future health insurance model, we will all take into account the pros and cons and which ones to choose, and when we enter here in the National Assembly, not to start the debates yet, but to be convinced that we are choosing this model that works for people, because they all connect the future model only with the financial flows and the financial rules that will be introduced. This model will seek not only optimization and efficient use of expenditure, but also better health care for Bulgarian citizens. Undoubtedly, in the context of this new model, the National Health Information System or the so-called e-health care system plays an important role, although e-health is only part of the National Health Information System. I have already had the opportunity to say several times before you that when our team entered the Ministry of Health, this project was frozen. I can assure you that this project has been lifted up and we're running it now. In my previous speech before you, on a parliamentary inquiry, I told you that our idea is by the end of the middle of next year to have e-health and national health information system. This is an essential, important, basic tool so that the really new health insurance model can work. At the same time, there are two other projects we are working on. One is related to the electronic auction of medicines and medical devices. The other one is related to the big emergency aid optimization project. All these instruments put together give me sufficient reason to believe that we are going the right way, and I hope that when we come in to discuss this issue here in plenary, we will have the highest degree of consensus. With regard to the National Health Card, I don't think this debate is too late because it started very early. Once I had a parliamentary inquiry in plenary, once I was heard in the Committee on Health, several times I gave press conferences to all Bulgarian media, and I also participated in a number of TV shows. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, the first option really had its gaps. We, of course, had a public discussion. The material stood for a month on the website of the Ministry of Health and we received proposed nearly 200 pages. Each of these proposals we have seen and assessed objectively. As a result, appropriate amendments to the original version were also made. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't see why you have these concerns right now.! Let me mention a few figures so that you can make sure that this National Health Card as a transition tool between the current state of the health system and that future state that we want to build, as future necessary needs for outpatient, hospital and emergency assistance, as has been said, and from high-tech equipment, as has been said, that we also have problems in human resources, human resources are also one of the priorities in the new health model that we are preparing, so it is a complex tool that includes outpatient, hospital care, medicines, medical devices, human resources, all those areas that form the so-called health system. [[Noise and lines.]] Let me say a few numbers. The active beds in 2017 were... Mr. Chairman, I don't know, are they listening to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u263	Honourable Members, would you please be quiet? Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u264	The active beds in 2017 were 38,803 pieces. These beds are used to make 9 million. Twenty-four thousand. bedsiden. With average load, notice, 63.7% mean load. The national health card adopted at the end of May provides 33 503 conditional beds at 75% absorption. If the same number of bedside beds is realized, the actual load of the active beds calculated in the National Health Insurance Fund will be even lower 73.8%. The national health card doesn't define physical beds. It doesn't define physical beds! Each separate bed referred to in the National Health Card guarantees hospitalization of patients with a total stay in hospitals of 274 beds. Therefore, the conditional beds laid down in the National Health Card 33 503 guarantee 9 171 000 bedside beds, almost 150,000 beds more than those realised in 2017. If we look at the National Health Card on Medical Activities, we will find that for the prevailing number of activities provided for in the National Health Card, the beds are more than the beds that have been agreed with the medical institutions for 2018. More than those agreed for 2018, recalculated, of course, with a utilisation rate of 75%, which is a normal and correct usability. In most cases, the number of beds in the National Health Card exceeds the beds mentioned in the contracts with medical institutions. Hospital revenues are mainly generated by services that satisfy the relatively constant scope and volume of health needs of the population. Whether the hospital makes contracts for 5 or 15 beds with the National Health Insurance Fund, the Cashier will pay for the actual implemented and reported clinical pathways. What does that say? That the bed is not a financing instrument and that the bed is not a second instrument, as has been said, to limit the funding of the medical institutions. The misunderstanding in certain regions is not caused by the shortage of beds. For example, more than 77% of the beds in the medical institutions in Varna District, I think the area was mentioned just a moment ago in the 3rd level of competence structures and only 4% in the I level of competence structures. Naturally, no health card taking into account the real needs of the population can provide 77% activities of level III competence. The National Health Insurance Fund shall determine the conclusion of contracts according to the need for medical activities of I, II and III level of competence. The medical establishment may carry out the activities of a bed of the same or higher level of competence. The competence of the bed gives only the right to carry out an activity of the relevant or lower level of competence, but the pay is done according to the activity and not according to the bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u265	Thank you, dear Minister. To apologize to you is not a matter of knowledge, but of education. [[Applause from GERB.]] We continue to vote on the proposals for solutions. We are voting in the order of their submission: Project! DECISION in connection with the debates on questions No 854 05-33 by the MPs Prof. Georgi Mihailov, Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. By 1 August 2018, the Minister of Health shall present a corrected model of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, taking into account the opinions of the word and trade union organizations, as well as the Committee on Health at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. 2. Within the same period, to present a specific model of health insurance as well as financial and administrative management of the health system. 3. Based on the new model by t. 2 and the corrected National Health Card to present a clear plan for the stabilisation of critical regional and municipal hospitals. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. They voted 158 MPs: 56 against 72, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Next Up Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questions No 854-05-33, tabled by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. By 30 September 2018, the Minister of Health shall present to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly a concept for the development of health insurance in the Republic of Bulgaria and for sectoral reforms in the health system with specific objectives and deadlines for their implementation. 2. The concept of t. 1 shall be presented after a broad public discussion with all stakeholders, and the results of the discussion shall be presented to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 105, against 54, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] Dear Minister, thank you for your participation today. [[Noise and lines.]] We're continuing to control you. We're not releasing you yet. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zahariev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva. Answer questions and questions. We begin with Minister Kiril Ananiev, who will answer questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, second question, question from the MPs Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov, question from the MP Georgi Mihailov, question from the National Representative Emil Hristov. Professor Mihailov, you have the floor to ask a question about the introduction of a new technology for control of blood products for viral transmission. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u266	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! My first question is related to a technology that has long been needed around the world as an opportunity for early control of blood donors, which is an extremely serious problem for prevention of transmissible infections. This question has been put several times in recent years in the Health Commission, and now I have the impression for the first time that the issue is going in some direction. I'd like to hear the details. In the development of my question then I will seek from you quite precisely the specifics of deadlines for the introduction of this technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u267	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u268	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov! The Transfusion System of the Republic of Bulgaria is an essential part of the country's health and condition and development and is a defining and strategic component of our national security. At present, the diagnosis of donor blood for transmissible infections in Bulgaria is carried out by serological screening tests using two methods of Those methods are sensitive and specific, but the hidden window period in which the available infection cannot be detected is long. Testing the technique for amplification of nucleic acids or so-called DNA of donor blood is the latest worldwide technology, as you mentioned, for diagnosis of donor blood for transmissible infections. Currently, according to a 2016 report by the European Commission 21 countries in Europe are implementing NATO-technology, including countries outside the European Union, Turkey, Albania, Serbia, Croatia, Ukraine, Switzerland, and the trend is to make it a mandatory requirement to diagnose donated blood. In Bulgaria, the introduction of the NAT-diagnosis of donated blood was taken as a priority activity in the developed in 2017 by leading specialists in the field of the transfusion hematological project of the National Programme for the Development of the Transfused System 2017 - 2021. However, there is no such provision in the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018. The priority of the government and state budget for 2018 is the development of science and research in the country. For this reason, the Ministry of Education and Science has a serious resource to develop research programmes. In search of sources of funding, the Ministry of Health jointly with the Ministry of Education and Science developed a National Scientific Program to launch the molecular method MIT into the country's transfusion system within a two-year period. In the implementation of the program will be purchased apparatus of the highest grade for carrying out the NAT-diagnosis of donated blood with the necessary supplies, software provision, training of specialists for the National Centre of Transfigurational Hematology and for the Regional Centers of Transfusional Hemographical Hematology Plovdiv, Varna, Stara Zagora and Pleven. The programme includes research activities, the results of which will allow the formation of a vision and scientific methodology for the introduction of NAT-technology in all blood donation centres. As my time is up, in the second part I will tell you what are the positive things of introducing this new method. NIGYAR JAFER: Thank you, Mr. Minister. You will have the opportunity to further develop the answer. Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your explanation. My address to you, without being able to be imperialist, is, if it is possible not to rely on a programme of the Ministry of Science and Education in the absence of funds, and as an experienced financier we will ask you, not imperative, to seek redistribution in the funds so entrusted to you in the framework of the 2018 budget, as the problem is extremely serious. I don't think you need to explain to me what the advantage of NAT technology is. Colleagues in the Chamber are unlikely to have such a specific interest, but this is a problem that allows people with transmissible infections who are hepatitis for whom the state is currently spending enormous money on the treatment of such types of transmissible infections. Therefore, my warm request is to seek an opportunity within the framework of the restructuring of the budget of the Ministry of Health and to take the first concrete steps this year. The second thing I would like to say a few words about is let the expert group appointed by you make a careful assessment whether every centre in Bulgaria needs to install such technology in view of, unfortunately, the decreasing number of donors in Bulgaria. And that puts the second big point in the problem that you have touched on, we need a new blood donation policy, and this new policy should find citizenship, discussion and acceptance as soon as possible. Thank you. NIGYAR JAFER: Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u270	Dear Madam President, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Mihailov, the project has been approved, the money is available, the project itself begins. We don't need to reorganize...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u271	You said two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u272	Two years, because within two years we will implement the overall project, and the main part of the Sofia National Centre, and perhaps the two in Varna and in Plovdiv, will be started this year. However, this is a project that takes time and you know it much, much better than I do. This is indeed our top priority and I will think about what you have said in terms of whether all centres need to be equipped in the context of demographic problems. But you know how important it is for a short period of time for the corresponding donated blood to reach the appropriate center where to do this examination. This also has some important importance in terms of the territory of our country, which is high-mountain, has some remote regions and so on. But we'll take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u273	Thank you, dear Minister. Good news, thanks for the answer. Mr. Chenchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u274	Thank you, Madam President. I'm using parliamentary control. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will ask for the assistance of the Presidency of the Bulgarian Parliament. In this case, it is you to cooperate and to distract a public delusion that is going and which has troubled me as early as December, six months ago, we adopted at first reading the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Now the BSP has been blamed for several days that this almost slowed the entry of the Law at second reading. BSP was so good to participate in the working group and on some of the proposals we all reached a consensus in the working group. We are waiting for the bill to be put into the Commission to come here and discuss and debate. Please, Madam President, take this into account because six months is a long time, the sports community is excited. I am sure that none of my colleagues is against sports, on the contrary, we are all about developing sport and especially the sensitive issue of bases and property that needs to be resolved. We believe it will be resolved. It is very important to know that on the part of BSP we have not given a counterproposal. We're not against that. On the contrary, we want the sport to develop and everyone to use their base. Let me get this straight. That is why we ask those in charge to submit their Law to enter here for debate and vote. Madam President, please follow up on what this thing has come to, because the working group has completed its action three months ago and three months ago this law does not enter the Commission. Why, we ask? No BSP delay the Sports Act, let it be clear. We want the sport to develop.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u275	This is obviously not a procedure in the manner of conduct. I recommend that your representatives of the Conference of Presidents next week be so kind as to raise this issue. That's where this needs to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u276	Thank you, Madam President, for treating me, because this issue is very important to the entire sports community in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u277	I'm sure of it. Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the delayed handling of complaints to NELK against decisions by TELK.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u278	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I will begin with part of the interview of the Chairman of the Association of Doctors from Telk. She says: "In an appeal against TelK's decision, NELK never complies with the three-month deadline. Patients are watched after a year, often more than a year. At that time, the patient receives a social disability pension and if the NELK determines a percentage lower than the TELK defined, the TelK doctors pay out of their own pocket the amounts charged. And I move on: the problem is easy to solve, but no one is willing to solve it. The solution is: a mandatory three-month period for certification, both by TelK and by NELK, because in this case the delay in ruling within the legally established period by NELK is the only factor leading to material damage to individuals. The Telk doctors, in this case, are responsible financially for the foreign activity. I'm done with the quote. I think this delay also brings material damage to those who appeal against TelK's decisions. There have been frequent cases where, in my reception as a Member of the National Assembly, there have been complaints of interested parties who, on the basis of art. 112, para. 1 of the Health Act appealed to NELK's decisions within the legally established 14 days of their receipt. NELK forms administrative proceedings, but schedules the examination in most cases with a delay of nearly a year. Because of this delay, these people, in most cases, suffer damages that are not only material, financial, but also others, for example, with a reduced degree of damage from 50 to 40%, despite the appeal, in order to receive social benefits, they must work out those days, which are a condition for receiving such aid. In relation to the above, my question to you is: are these isolated cases, or is it mass practice to delay the views by more than a year? Is there any intention of such an unacceptable delay or is it due to objective reasons? Do you consider this normal and what action will you take to address this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u279	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u280	Madam President, I have a huge request. The question is really very important, maybe I'll need a minute more in the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u281	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u282	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Gokov! According to RZI data, Stara Zagora, in the last three years 2015 - 2017, from TELK in Stara Zagora region were issued a total of 27 488 expert decisions, of which 1337 expert decisions or 4.7% were appealed to NELK. According to data from the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses for the same period, the experts issued decisions by TelK are 663 240, and in connection with an appeal procedure NELC have produced 26 831 cases of them or 4%. The above data talk about a significant flow of contested expert decisions, for which NEC should re-examine and rule, which is large in relation to the available personnel capacity of the National Commission. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 of the Rules on the structure and organisation of the work of the bodies of medical expertise and of the regional files of medical expertise are regulated a period of three months, as you said, in which the NELK is ruling on the expert decisions of TelK appealed before it. That deadline is instructive, not imperative. In order to delay the time-limits for granting expert decisions, especially NELK and to a lesser extent TELK, the main factors are, above all, the unchanged model of assessment of people with disabilities and related pension and social assistance systems, which are the basis of disability benefits, social benefits, integration supplements and other rights and social payments. In the last fifteen years, through successive changes in the relevant legislation concerning pension, social, educational and other spheres, the different rights and privileges of disabled persons are increased and the access to all of them goes through the only system for medical expertise and assessment of permanently reduced performance, type and degree of disability. This practically leads to an increasing number of individuals at the admission of medical expertise to personal doctors, medical consultative committees, TelK and NELK, which inevitably affects the time limits for examining cases and issuing expert decisions, and the overload of the system. It is important to note that the appeal against the expert decisions of TELK can be made not only by the certified persons, but also by all stakeholders who, under the Health Act, have been certified by the insurers, the NSI, the Social Assistance Agency, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the bodies of the medical expertise on workability. There is a strong deficit of doctors in NELK and TELK. The main reason was the restrictive condition of art. 106, para. 3 of the Health Act, operating until its last change, which prohibited any other kind of medical activity of members of NELK and TELK outside medical expertise. Last but not least, as a reason for the delayed certification of the people of NELK is the practice of imposing the audit acts under art. 110 of the Code of Social Security for collective bodies, such as the authorities of medical expertise in Telk and NELK. The reasons for the delay in NELK's expertise are objective and well known to the Ministry of Health. They are the subject of two major studies, as well as the activities of several inter-agency working groups from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the National Health Insurance Fund, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, the Agency for Social Assistance and the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities. Work on the analysis of existing problems and the creation of a new model concerning the activities of the state related to people with disabilities, including medical expertise, is taking place extremely complicated. In line with the change in the Health Act of February 2018, the draft amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the work of the bodies of medical expertise and of the regional files of medical experts, which is from 2010. The same was published on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Public Consultation Portal of the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. Other changes aimed at optimising the activities of NELK are the regulation of the possibility to rule only on the basis of the medical or other documentation provided and at the time of the adoption of the contested decision, and the ruling is only on the grounds referred to in the complaint and provided for in the Regulation on medical expertise and not on all occasions. An important change is also the elimination of the requirement that workers in NEC doctors be on an employment contract. All these regulatory changes aim to reduce the period of pronouncement by reducing the workload in the work of NELK, optimizing the processes and making the work of doctors more attractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u284	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I must thank you for the answer that is extensive and thorough. I never doubted he was your attention. Of course, the capacity of institutions such as NELK and TELK is low, and it is low because the political talk about the large number of disabled people, who are hardly an abnormal number for our country, amid the talk about false pensions, for a large percentage of disability in these TelK solutions, doctors from the TelK committees will insure and reduce rates. This will lead to an appeal. The delay in NELK will not solve the problems in general, but will increase and the capacity of these services will become smaller from day to day. Against the backdrop of the huge health problems, perhaps this is a smaller problem, against the backdrop of the mistaken concept of expertise of workability, for which, of course, the Health Ministry has no fault at all in this case, I think that from the very beginning the work with you has been brought to fruition in the concept, but in the Social Ministry the issue is not so, on this background the problems will become more and more. I want to tell you that the reasons that you have thoroughly announced from here are objective. I don't deny they're objective. I will use one word: what is the concern of the person who waits instead of the third month for the NELK to be pronounced at his request is delayed a year and more? I'm sorry I didn't bring you guys to my reception room, and I took the liberty of filming the notifications. It officially says that June last year the application was submitted, scheduled for autumn this year, which is absolutely unacceptable and insane. In fact, they admit that with this long period of time they are breaking the legislation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just two more sentences, Madam President, I apologize. I just wanted to say that the lack of a specified deadline and as short as possible or compliance with such a deadline also leads to corrupt practices. There's nothing to explain to you this thing. What does it look like to the idea of Daniel Kirilov and the Legal Commission for Officials who do not act or issue in time not to go unpunished, to be responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u285	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here's your coat, dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, you may not have had the opportunity to look at the uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health draft regulation on medical expertise. Inside you will see that we are creating a completely new organization of movement of documents. After its public discussion we have achieved a high degree of consistency with the Association of Disabled People, so that the person will not move, will move the documents. We are building an electronic system that will increase the speed of the processing of documents and move them to the next level of competence for decision-making. I am convinced that the term for a ruling will be sharply removed, people with disabilities will be relieved and, at the same time, the work will be optimized by the staff working at NELK and at TELK, and all this has given a positive result and hastens the process of pronouncing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov about the cost of oncommediations. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. I'm making a small correction, maybe misplaced: cost optimization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u289	That's how the question was written. Maybe that's how it was filed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u290	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Minister Ananiev, Dear colleagues! Many times in the past year and in the Health Commission, and in talks with you, we have discussed the problem of optimizing the consumption of oncomedicines with a view to reducing excess quantities that remain unused in the implementation of the therapeutic strategy in patients with cancers. Unfortunately, the measures proposed by the National Health Insurance Fund are not so far professionally supported and I will argue in the further development of the issue. My question to you is: what is your vision as the head of the entire institution and the whole direction for this optimization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u291	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u292	Madam President, and this issue has a longer explanation, but I will be hasty in my speech. Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov! According to European legislation in the field of medicinal products transposed into the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, only the holder of the marketing authorisation of a medicinal product has the responsibility to initiate the process of placing it on the market and is the only subject who has the exclusive rights to it. Each wearer of a marketing authorisation shall therefore assess which packaging to be placed on the relevant market, which is related to the type and size of the market, with the particularities of national legislation regarding the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products and their production costs resulting from the size of each batch. Only the holder of a marketing authorisation may dispose of the medicinal product with regard to its manufacture and marketing, its wholesale and retail sale, the specific packaging in which it will be marketed, respectively its desire and its refusal to be included in the positive drug list and its payment by public means. In view of the above, there are no mechanisms for the administrative coercion of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to market a product in a particular packaging or to include it in the positive drug list. In accordance with art. 5 of the Public Procurement Act, the medical institutions, under art. Art. 36, Art. 37 of the Law on medical establishments owned by the State and/or municipalities are public contracting entities in the conduct of public procurement, including the procedures for purchasing medicinal products to meet their own needs. At present, much of the medicinal products used for the treatment of malignancy are included in the positive drug list and can be purchased from health establishments with several different types of packaging, with a different amount of the active substance in it. However, the economic interest of wholesalers in medicinal products dictates that they bid and trade mainly small packages in the conduct of purchasing procedures by medical establishments. An approach to address this problem is the centralised procurement by including by a central authority the so-called framework agreements. The benefits of such an undertaking are undisputed, and the Ministry of Health has already implemented the policy in this area by establishing and operating a central purchasing body in the sector. The electronic platform established for this purpose in our country enables the Ministry of Health to negotiate and conclude a framework supply agreement based on the price of a unit of medicinal substance, while wholesalers participating in the procedure are obliged to bid all the cuts and concentrations available in the positive drug list from a particular medicinal product to the designated marketing authorisation holder. Consequently, on the basis of these agreements already concluded, medical institutions will be able to purchase precisely those medicinal products in those packages they need. The expected benefits of the introduction of centralised marketing of medicinal products are the achievement of low prices due to the large volumes of lots, as well as the reduction of the costs of drug treatment establishments. At present, the Ministry of Health is actively developing a New Public Procurement Project, which will be announced in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u293	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Mr. Minister, you don't want the back, you agree with the given line. There is a question from the MPs Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov concerning the judgmental decisions of the NHIF for unpaid excess medical activity. Here you are, Dr. Timchev, to ask the question. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Recently, information appeared in the media that about a series of hospitals that have condemned the National Health Insurance Fund for outstanding medical activity. We don't know that there are cases like this that have won the Health Insurance Fund. It appears that the views of the judicial authorities on the case are that, in the introduction of limits in the conduct of medical activities by medical institutions, it is unlawful. Given that the judgments lead to the payment of significant sums by the National Health Insurance Fund, our question is: what is your strategy on the limits introduced for the payment of medical activities carried out by hospitals and the recognition of this as unlawful by the judicial authorities, how will you pay the amounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u295	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev, the National Health Insurance Fund pays the medical work within the framework of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for the year in question. In accordance with art. 55, para. 2, p. 3a of the Health Insurance Act, the volumes, prices and methodologies for the valuation and purchase of medical aid shall be governed by the National Framework Contract for medical activities. On the basis of art. 59, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act The National Health Insurance Fund shall conclude contracts with the healthcare contractors in accordance with the National Framework Agreement and within the framework of the Casa's budget for the relevant year. The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay the medical assistance carried out under the abovementioned regulations and shall be within the limits of the financial parameters adopted by the National Health Insurance Fund's Budget Act for the year concerned and on the basis of individual hospital aid contracts concluded with the medical institutions. At the present time, 66 cases of an estimated total amount of 16 million were formed on claims made by hospital aid contractors. BGN, of which: completed at first instance are 11, at an estimated total value of 1 million. 47,000. lv. and ended at second instance.4 at an estimated value of 550 thousand. lv. Cassation complaints have been filed in four cases, one of which is from a medical establishment. The amount of the principal of these claims is contested by the National Health Insurance Fund and evidence is collected under the Civil Procedure Code and therefore these amounts are not final. The amount of interest and expenses in the cases brought cannot be determined either before the entry into force of the judgment. Those cases have as their object activities, including medical devices, for which hospital aid contractors claim to have committed, invested and the NHIF refused to pay, as they are outside the scope of the contracts concluded and the values set out in Annex 2 thereto. The final conclusion of judgment decisions are only two cases in which the NHIF is sentenced to pay BGN 20 992, as well as interest rates and expenses. Seen from the information presented, there is no settled caselaw to rule with judgmental decisions according to which the NHIF owes payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u297	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Timchev, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I was not under the impression that even the 20,000 Cashier would pay them after she was convicted. Somehow, this condition resembles a court decision when he sentenced the Sofia Municipality for the cost of the ticket of the public transport of one and sixty, but accepted it as illegal and the citizens continue to pay one and sixty. Something here, in this relationship, looks like your answer to the same thing. Well, in time, other judgments will come out, and when they become millions, who will pay them? Are they gonna stay like the Cashier's debt or what? I have also not heard the main answer to your opinion of the Ministry regarding the excess activity of hospitals. Will you cancel the limits of hospitals, which I am interested in, since the court admits that this activity and the introduction of the limits is illegal? I didn't get a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u299	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, please complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dr. Timchev, not in my capacity as Minister of Health, but as a person who has spent many years in the budget, I do not know in our Bulgarian legislation subliminal and over-budget activities and expenditures. If you know such terms and somewhere they are regulated in our legislation, that is another matter. That's first. Second, imagine now, if we have to pay the $16 million that we had pointed out at the beginning of my speech, where will we get them from, Dr. Timchev? You know we're gonna take it out of the budget this year? What happens after that? At the end of the year, this 16 million. lv. again will not be allocated for expenditure fixed under the 2018 budget. We are working on an adopted Law on the Fund's budget, approved by you. We can't break that. This is the limit of costs that the National Health Insurance Fund can make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgiev Mihaylov. Professor Mihailov, your question is about the administrative burden of medical staff taking into account the activities of medical institutions. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, a letter from the Health Commission was received by the Medical Association, that is to say, two medical associations on the haematology of children's specialists in oncology and haematology, which I would not like to present in detail and I quote, are given serious remarks to: firstly, the constantly changing requirements of the National Health Insurance Fund to account especially for the activities of drug spending, combined with imperfect computer systems, a series of non-compliance and in the absence of technical staff, which is present in every secondary and western European clinic, this makes the task of specialists with higher medical education extremely difficult. I have to tell you from my humble experience as a doctor, 30 years old, that in fact the severity of our activity has moved from interest to the patient in the interest of paperwork and electronics, which largely blocks and compromises the level of diagnostic and therapeutic activity. My question to you is: what is your vision for overcoming this problem in the short and long term? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u303	Thank you, Professor. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u304	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihaylov, with the signing of the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2018, in force from 1 April 2018, has dropped the requirement that the performers of outpatient medical care present monthly in the regional health insurance registers the financial-accounting documents: invoices, specifications thereof and a report on the medical activity carried out for each doctor from the hospital to be paid for their activity for the month in question. According to the new provisions laid down in the National Framework Treaty for 2018, doctors working in medical institutions, performers of outpatient medical care who have concluded a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund shall report annually, in the formats established by the NHIF, the non-hospital medical activity included in the subject of the contract via the NHIF Internet Portal or through a web service. The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay the agreed and carried out medical activity of the performer of outpatient medical care after submitting invoices or debits, respectively credit notifications to them in electronic form as established by the NHIF format through the NHIF web portal or through a web service. The information required by hospital healthcare contractors is necessary to verify that all necessary procedures provided for in a clinical path, clinical procedure or outpatient procedure have been performed on a patient as well as on outpatient assistance. These requirements are in the interest of patients. The reduction of required paper documents shall begin phased out and shall be switched to electronic reporting. For example, the NDC 2018 is no longer required for hospitals to report the IHZ No 7 form of hospitalization, treatment under an outpatient procedure in the RHIF, as well as the report on medicinal products. In many hospitals there is an organization established by the relevant management and the activities of the latter are processed and reported by employees in an information department that relieves doctors from administrative burden and enables them to engage only in their direct activities in the treatment of patients. The time limits for reporting of medical establishments are agreed in the National Framework Treaty on medical activities and correspond to the monthly reporting and payment of the activity carried out under the contracts concluded with medical aid contractors. Software programs that use medical facilities are not developed by the National Health Insurance Fund, but are subject to an order from the medical institutions of external companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u305	Thank you. That was Minister Ananiev's answer. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Professor, you have the right to reply please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand your answer. It is logically built correctly, but as a person who has not had direct contact with the reporting systems of medical institutions, I have to tell you that there are several things, especially in the area of strategic medical institutions, which create problems for specialists. One of them is the lack of possible flexibility to change the regime of the therapeutic doctrine, which is required in many of these patients related to the method of reporting. Secondly, there is indeed talk and there are in a number of medical institutions information departments, but these information departments are composed of specialists in quotes that do not have the necessary knowledge, and in fact specialists with higher medical education are required to fill out the main part of the documentation. With regard to the ordered software products, in my opinion, you, as I do not want to do any compliments or qualifications as a person standing at the top of the system, should very quickly implement the need to align the software systems, as what is a particular problem of the state at the moment, not only in the field of health, is that a system with a system does not speak and does not have the ability to rotate the information at the maximum speed that can be processed by the relevant units that receive or broadcast this information. In this sense, I believe that, within the framework of the Ministry's development and promotion of the Single Information System, this needs to be laid down as an opportunity for reporting and control of the activity. Here I will allow myself to share an opinion with you, which is professional. In the electronic system of the National Health Insurance Fund, when the patient's stay is officially interrupted, there is no possibility to see whether he has not been accepted under the budget of the hospital concerned, which I once told you, what is next from not going into these details. That is, indeed, these are very serious breakthroughs in the system, which should be carefully considered in the future and in the near future, as it is a huge amount of money. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u307	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u308	I don't think of it as a duplicate, Mr. Chairman. It's an addition to Professor Mikhailov's statement. The general decision is the Single National Information System. It's really important, and the sooner that happens, the better. You know that it in general has many modules. Some of them we'll make a priority move. For example, this module can indeed be taken as a priority and help speed up these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u309	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is asked by the MP Emil Hristov. It is about the financial condition of the University Hospital for Active Treatment. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich "AD," Stara Zagora. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, you became a minister at an extremely difficult time for Bulgarian healthcare, when there were already several groups of hospitals formed, which were with state, whether with municipal or mixed participation, were already differentiated as creating social tensions, tensions in the system itself, among staff and patients. Fair or not, the University Hospital has been mentioned often lately. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich. in Stara Zagora. In September 2012 with a decision of the then Minister of Health were united the two hospitals "University Hospital" in Stara Zagora and Hospital "Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich, with the structure inherited besides assets and liabilities, which at that time were an impressive amount of somewhere over 19 million. As a result, the complicated situation in the health care system was involved in a vicious circle of covering old overdue debts and the accumulation of new ones. In addition to the complex situation and the difficulties of the hospital the funds from the National Health Insurance Fund for the University Hospital Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich. For 2015 there are about 6 million. lv. less than 2014 for 2016 876 thousand. lv. less compared to 2015. Despite the restrictions, however, the management has managed for the last three years to cover the old and part of the current obligations, as well as to pay the salaries of workers with minimal delays. In the light of the above, I would like you to answer the following question: what amounts have been paid by the management of the University Hospital "Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich. For 2015, 2016 and 2017 on old dues and what amounts do the rates paid by the hospital for that period amount to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u311	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Minister, I'm asking for an answer. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2012 a transformation of the University Multi-Profile Hospital for Active Treatment EAD was carried out. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich "AD" under the order of art. 262 of the Commercial Law, with the transformation company being terminated without liquidation and as a result of an infusion its entire property is transferred to the receiving company under the conditions of universal administration. The transformation of the two medical establishments was not accompanied by a subsequent coverage of the liabilities of the inflowing trading company, but the opposite, the acceptance company inherited all liabilities. According to data from the certified by the registered auditor annual financial statement of UMHAT Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich (JSC) "Stara Zagora," as of 31 December 2017, the medical institution registered a negative current financial result for a loss of 1 million. 965 thousand. BGN, resulting in an increase in the amount of the accumulated loss, such as the total financial result reaching 31 December 2017, amounted to 33 million. 583 thousand. lv. As of 31 December 2017, the overdue debt amounted to 21 million. 628 thousand. lv. According to the information submitted by the company in 2015, commitments were covered to suppliers of a total of 8 million. 806 thousand. BGN, of which 6 million 869 thousand. lv. For the purposes of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources shall be Nine hundred and thirty-seven thousand. lv. for current obligations to suppliers. Interest liabilities 484 thousand have been repaid. lv. and legal fees and legal expenses of 399 thousand. lv. For 2016 there are covered and overdue obligations to suppliers of 7 million. $237,000. BGN, of which 1 million Nine hundred and eighty-eight thousand. lv. current liabilities. In the absence of any further comments, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 467 thousand. lv. During this period, there are covered and overdue liabilities to personnel of 1 million. 176,000. lv. Payments for legal fees and legal expenses of 176 thousand have been made. BGN, as well as interest on overdue debts of 680 thousand. lv. In 2017, overdue liabilities were repaid to suppliers amounting to 5 million. 401 thousand. lv. And one million. Seven hundred and fifty-five thousand. lv. current payments. During this period are covered and overdue liabilities to the staff of 882 thousand. lv. In the absence of any further comments, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 667 thousand. BGN, payments have been made for legal fees and court expenses of 364 thousand. BGN, as well as interest on an overdue debt of 1 million. 607 thousand. lv. I assure you that the management of the Ministry of Health is actively working towards finding a legitimate option to overcome the overall debt of public and municipal hospitals both in the short and long term. In this regard, uniform standards for the management of public and municipal hospital care facilities and mechanisms for control of their implementation were established, which will enable hospital managers to exercise a number of management competences and consequently responsibilities for the financial management of companies aimed at the effective use of available financial resources. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The medical establishment works in compliance with the requirements for financial discipline. All creditors have drawn up repayment plans for servicing the overdue liabilities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one more sentence. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The financial data presented by the hospital as at 31 May 2018 show that the company is making a financial result of 1 million. 338,000. BGN, and the overdue debts reach the amount of 22 million. 663 thousand. lv. The current medical activity is carried out rhythmically and the population of Stara Zagora district is served in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u313	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sorry to bother you. I expected you to be able to complete the answer in the shape of the back. We have to take time. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! What you are saying gives confidence that the management of the hospital in the last few years has managed to cope, despite the lack of help from the shareholders in the company. However, confusion and anxiety leads mostly to the fact that almost 2 million were paid last year. lv. interest from the hospital jointly, of course, with legal fees and the like. Is there any way that the Ministry can take action that will release this resource because it is a free resource that could be used both to raise remuneration and to pay off old overdue debts? I ask this in connection with the assistance that was provided by the Ministry in a prosaic way, of course, to some hospitals, because despite your extremely difficult condition, you quoted more than 30 million. lv. obligations at the beginning of the work of this team in the management, and no one has gone out to protest, there has been no breakdown in the work of the medical institutions, there has been no closed, inoperative, non-functioning clinics and wards in the hospital. So we would like to understand: is there any possibility that these unnecessary payments, such as interest and as legal fees, could be avoided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u315	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u316	Dear Mr. Hristov, the hospital is really going well. We are monitoring the processes and with each period of reporting it has shown an ever better activity and result of this activity. Unfortunately, this is a commercial company which owes certain obligations to other private entities and these interest rates come from being overdue. What the hospital can do, and what can help the Ministry of Health, as we do for the very troubled hospitals in Lovech and Vratsa, for example, is to help the hospital get into direct contact with creditors and somehow re-establish the obligations, including the interest they owe. It's the only toolbox the Ministry can help with. There's no other option. I will make the commitment to contact the management of the hospital. We hear each other and identify the creditors to whom the interest rates are mostly flowing and to have a conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question for you and thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next question is to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, who will answer a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev about the possibility of developing pilgrimage tourism. Mr. Baychev, you have the floor to develop your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Since ancient times, travels have been undertaken to worship various deities and honor in the holy lands. This tradition hasn't changed even nowadays. Bulgaria is not only a country rich in natural beauty and phenomena, but also has a huge cultural heritage, numerous churches, monasteries and chapels, witnessed Bulgarian history and managed to preserve our fighting spirit. In recent years, it has been noticed that there is interest not only in the usual tourist holidays of the sea or in the mountains, but also in travels where people can visit religious lands, monasteries, churches and immerse themselves in the atmosphere of God's places, as well as in religious customs and worships. These trips are not influenced by the different annual seasons or by climate features and can contribute annually to the cultural growth and enrichment of people. Tourist attraction number one in respect of pilgrimage is undoubtedly the Rila Monastery, which is visited annually by about 800,000 people. Great Ascension marks the church as well. St. Cyril and Methodius in Sozopol, which was visited only last season by 240,000 people, thanks to the fact that the information between the believers that the relics of St. John the Baptist is strong and moves them to visit this holy place for them. Therefore, Mrs. Angelkova, I am addressing you and I would like to draw attention to pilgrimage tourism. This is a special part of the tourism industry where other countries pay attention and develop special tourist routes as an opportunity to develop tourism outside the so-called summer and winter season. This is an additional opportunity to fill the bed base. My question to you is this: what policy and measures has the Bulgarian government and state taken regarding the development of pilgrimage tourism as an opportunity to extend the summer and winter tourist season? Is it even working in this direction and what actions have been taken by you as Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u319	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Madam Minister, please answer the question. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u320	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, in the implementation of the priorities of the government management program the main task of the Ministry of Tourism is the validation of Bulgaria as a year-round tourist destination, developing all types of tourism. In order to optimally exploit the potential for the development of a specialised tourism product, such as pilgrimage tourism, we are making concrete and targeted efforts to upgrade the measures in this direction. One of the main markets for Bulgarian tourism with a marked interest in pilgrimage and our strategic partner in the sector is the Russian Federation. As a result of the intensive and in-depth dialogue that we built in the previous term of the cabinet Borisov, in the autumn of last year in Varna was held Bulgarian-Russian Forum. The event was attended by leaders of 10 regional tourist administrations and branch organizations from both countries, as well as representatives of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. Specific cooperation agreements were signed between representatives of the sector from both sides. In the period 27 April this year, the Ministry of Tourism was co-organizer of the forum "Development of inter-regional cooperation in the field of tourism" and the event took place in the town of Kaluga, Moscow region. It was attended by representatives of the leadership of the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation, representatives of the regions which conduct state policy in the field of tourism, leaders of the Russian Union of Tourism Industry, Association of Tour Operators in Russia. The forum was dedicated to the cooperation between Russia and its main tourist partners and Bulgaria presented its potential in the field of pilgrimage and cultural and historical tourism. The Ministry of Tourism is very actively partnered with the Russian side of the Programme "World Bulgaria" which promotes the prospects for pilgrimage exchange between the two countries and helps to deepen the development of spiritual and ecclesiastical relationships by organizing group pilgrimage trips. Through the National Tourism Representation in Moscow, the Ministry of Tourism presented the country as a tourist destination focusing on pilgrimage tourism in international forums organized by the Russian Federation for Tourism in the cities of St Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Samara, Kazan and Sochi. In the context of these integrated efforts, I inform you that today the exhibition of the church art of Bulgaria is opened in Moscow, which includes 48 exhibits from the funds of the National Museum of History, the Museum of Ancient Nessebar and the National Library. The two-month exposure period will be used to promote the opportunities for pilgrimage tourism to the media and business representatives and stakeholders who develop the pilgrimage direction of the market in Russia. In addition, we have a specially signed agreement with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church so that we can develop and promote together, rather promote, the conditions for the development of pilgrimage tourism in the country, not only in terms of the market in Russia, but also in other markets that show special interest. As a result of these efforts, in fact, for the first five months of this year, from January to May, our country has been visited by over 2 million people. 430,000. foreign tourists, with only over 15% growth in May, which shows that the wings of the season are starting to fill slightly with these efforts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u321	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Baychev, please come in for an attitude to the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, all that you have listed is certainly true and some of those meetings in Russia that you have held and the exhibitions that have been made have prompted me to ask this question. But I want to pay attention to something else. There is some difference between our desire and the documents that we have drawn up as strategies. What do I mean? I do not know if you paid attention to the website of the Ministry of Tourism, for example, but there is nothing affected in the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertising 2018 regarding pilgrimage tourism. Only and only cultural tourism is affected. The same applies to the report on the implementation of the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertising and so on, not to list other things. The site itself does not pay any attention to this type of tourism, I tried to be interested. Pilgrimage tourists represent 11% of the total number of tourists who visited the country, which in practice, given the increased interest is a market niche, which should be developed and worked in this direction. I believe that it is necessary to develop new specialised routes, focusing on unique interesting religious sites. Unfortunately for me, some of these objects are in a bad condition that you're not responsible for. Support is either the municipalities or the state. But in order to complete the range of products of alternative tourism, it is necessary to pay more attention to pilgrimage tourism in order for Bulgaria to develop more popularity because our country is proud of many centuries of traditions and monuments. Here we should not only emphasize Christian states, such as Russia, Greece or Western Europe, we can pay attention to Muslims, as we have many places for Muslim worship. I would like to point out Demir Baba Teke, Demir Baba, is the spiritual leader of the Alevi, in fact, of the Alevi who are part of the Shiite. The largest cemetery in Europe, in fact in Bulgaria, is also on the territory of Karnobat. You could be working this way. I want you to understand my criticism is very well-intentioned and I really want to get a boost on this type of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u323	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Would you like to take the opportunity for a douche? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u324	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Baychev, thank you for the constructive criticism, because it is really important for us to develop the routes as much as possible, not only those we have developed cultural and historical and balneo, and spa, wine and gourmet, but also on the basis of the cooperation agreements we have with regard to pilgrimage tourism, both with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and with the Russian Federation, as well as with Greece, we have also signed, and with Turkey. With regard to other areas, we are now going to develop in the specifics and in greater detail, so we will inform you and, accordingly, we will include an additional broader presentation in terms of both our website and the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertisement. I would also like to discuss with you in detail if you have further ideas and suggestions in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u325	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the question for you. We are moving on to the questions of the Minister of Economy Mr. Karanikolov. Dear Members of Parliament, I am extending the time spent on group declarations. I hope we can run out of three questions to the Minister of Economy. We start with the first of them. He is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. The issue concerns poor governance in state-owned enterprises in the European Commission Report on Bulgaria for 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I will not repeat verbatim what I have written, but I will quote two quotes from the European Commission Report on Bulgaria for 2018. It includes an in-depth review on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, an assessment of progress in structural reforms, the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances and the results of in-depth reviews in accordance with European Union Regulation. First quote: State enterprises are a source of economic and fiscal risks, as their corporate governance structures are rarely subject to professional governance or rules to ensure an independent and transparent decision-making process. The second quote: The results of state-owned enterprises represent a source of uncertainty and risk to public finances. The total liabilities of state-owned enterprises, in which the State owns at least 50% and controls, amounted in June 2017 to almost 17% of gross domestic product, according to the Ministry of Finance data. Almost half of these liabilities are to companies outside the sector of government and therefore constitute contingent liabilities which the State must guarantee or cover. Corporate governance of state-owned enterprises remains a challenge. The governance framework of state-owned enterprises does not fulfil most of the conditions laid down in the OECD guidelines on corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. The main challenges are: firstly, in many cases a vague justification for state ownership and a fragmented supervisory framework. A lack of financial direction and accountability, as well as a third, the appointments of management positions are often carried out without any competitive procedures, without incentives to optimize the value. Strong are the presence and role of the political element. This is often done at the expense of long-term vision and coordination, transparency and high-level management standards. And the questions: will there be a change in the policy of the Ministry of Economy in the corporate governance of state enterprises? What is your vision for appointments of management positions in state enterprises in which they are currently being carried out as party appointments? Do you foresee a change in the fragmented and functioning without the necessary systematicity of Bulgarian legislation which regulates the creation, management, transformation and requirements for the activities of state enterprises and companies with more than 50% state and municipal participation? What will you and your ministry do to achieve a sustainable and predictable long-term framework providing more efficient management of state-owned enterprises?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u327	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You have three minutes to consider.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u328	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, first of all, thank you for the question. The policy of the Ministry of Economy in the field of corporate governance is based on the following internationally recognised standards: effective functioning, transparency and accountability of the activity. This includes: setting clear definitions and objectives and expected results of the activities set out in the relevant business programmes of the company whose performance is monitored annually with the adoption of their annual financial statements. Several mechanisms are in force to ensure the transparency of the management and activity of commercial companies with State participation, including those involved. - Publication in the Trade Register of the Agency for Registrations of Annual Financial Statements. With regard to commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital that meet certain criteria, the provisions for disclosure of information from the Public Offering of Securities Act shall apply. - Public disclosure on the website of the Ministry of Finance of quarterly information, including analysis of the activity, financial economic situation of the companies with state participation in the capital and companies they control. - Announcement on the website of the Ministry of Economy of advertisements for upcoming management transactions in assets of sole commercial companies with state participation in the capital and companies which control them, thereby ensuring wider publicity and transparency in carrying out such transactions. In my capacity as Minister of Economy, I have not allowed party appointments in company control forms from the Ministry of Economy system. Moreover, if you check, you will see that most of the directors I have found are still such as the boards. At the same time, I have taken steps to reduce their numbers in order to reduce their maintenance costs. The results of the reduction in the costs of state-owned companies on an annual basis of 700 thousand. lv. In my capacity as Minister of Economy, I have initiated changes to those rules for the management of companies which ensure: uniformisation of the legal regime for transactions by sole commercial companies with State participation in capital and the companies they control. Provision of prerequisites for wider publicity and transparency in the execution of transactions by those legal entities. Limiting the possibility of admitting distortions in sales of assets by the company. The contested practice of establishing property rights on immovable property owned by companies relating to whether or not authorisation is necessary by the sole owner of the capital. The Ministry of Economy will continue to make efforts to create conditions for more efficient management of commercial companies and to improve their financial economic situation. Here I would just like to make a point, in the past the National Assembly had submitted a draft on how to choose company managers, respectively boards and managers. Even then I have said that this was a very good foundation on which we had to build and become a law. I don't know what's going on with this bill right now. But once again, I say there must be such a law and clear criteria where company managers are appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in for a cue and attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u330	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. You are aware that it is a very serious issue, because it cannot, there is no way that some enterprises, whether in the past, have been profitable and that they have all the prerequisites to win, to now generate a loss, not to see it, but to tell us from Europe. I thank you for your answer and for not going along the plane that is very often used.. I will say it so in the right political space that the state is a bad owner. I do not agree with this, as you did not go in this direction to explain to me, obviously you do not agree with this either. I think the state can be a very good owner as long as it cares about the property and the economy of the country and exercise serious control over these enterprises. Now for the party assignments. I congratulate you on what you've done. I would just like to remind you that you are the successor of a minister of the same political power, so there is nothing new to clean, but it is a tradition in the Bulgarian political space. In politics, okay, but why does politics interfere with the economy and executives to be replaced just because they belong to some other political party, I do not understand and there is not much logic in changing them with our people! Of course, I would also say that it is okay for these people to be politically addicted to the power that is represented, but to be capable and to manage businesses profitablely and, de facto, in Bulgaria, this does not work. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been claimed to be such enormous duties. I am grateful to you for mentioning our draft legislation from the past National Assembly, as I am a supporter of being tabled again and together, to make a law, that is, we have called it a Public Enterprises Management Bill, to be aware of who appoints what, why appoints who works at a loss, and indeed the principles that you mentioned at the beginning of your exhibition, such as transparency, economic benefit and so on to be embodied in this law and to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u331	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u332	Thank you. Only as an add-on. I've been looking at your bill for a year and a half. It was a really very good foundation and I would love to work through the Ministry of Economy, because there must be clear methods for selecting boards and CEOs of companies. In no way, I assure you, I am not looking at whether a person is party-oriented or non-party-oriented. The point is, he's a professional. There's no bad state company, there's bad managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u333	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, I'm paying attention to the exchange of order to the next two questions. Due to the absence from Mr. Petrov's room, we will first proceed to a question asked by the National Representative Veska Nencheva and by the People's Representative Manol Genov, which is about the financial situation of Vazovski machine-building plants and the security with contracts for the implementation of the special production produced in the company. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u334	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In the Valley of Roses is located the largest enterprise in the Military Industrial Complex, these are the Vazov machine-building plants. A curious fact. In 1940 the company was opened exactly on Petrovden, only then it was 12 July, apparently the holiday itself had some significance after all these years the company had preserved and given bread and food to the people in the area. Today we are again with one concern, which we face with our colleague before you. It's been linked to the last few years. Due to the convergence of international special production markets, serious growth has been found. He did not pass the Bulgarian military industry, including the city of Sopot. Then thanks to the efforts of several governments since 2013. I would like to stress that with Minister Dragomir Stoynev the workers were then able to be reassured. Because Minister Stoynev managed to make sure that the workers received their salaries, which were not received for several months, were in a state of strike and strike action, but thanks to the good policy of government then the state's things calmed down. A sufficient number of contracts were provided in the city of Sopot to maintain its production and increased sharply. Therefore, the number of employees in the company was increased. At this time they are more than four thousand working from the two municipalities - Sopot and Karlovo. This circumstance, of course, sharply reduced unemployment in the territory of Sopot Municipality and Karlovo Municipality and some other municipalities in Plovdiv district. Good wages were provided to the employees of the company. Unfortunately, from the beginning of this calendar year we regularly receive alarming signals about a tendency to reduce production volume, as well as a sharp reduction in the gross wages of the employed. That is why we, as MPs from the 17th Multiannual Election Region, are very concerned about this alarming trend, and even more worried about those working in the Ministry of Education and their families. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Our question to you is: what is the financial situation of the company at the moment and is it secured by contracts for future time to guarantee employment and remuneration based on a three-year forecast? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u335	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u336	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Nencheva, Dear Mr. Genov! Thank you for your question. Many governments have done a lot of things for the Bulgarian economy. I will continue Dragomir Stoinev's policy as it was right. That's exactly what I'm saying. Sopot is one of the structural-determining companies from the Military Industrial Complex of the country. Its activity is mainly related to production and implementation of special production, as for 2017. 86,91% of the revenue generated is from the sale of such production. About 97% of the sale of special production is realized on international markets in countries of Asia, America and Europe, including NATO, with which we have established long-standing traditions. The company is in stable economic condition and with a very good prospect of development. For 2017, revenue totaling more than 535 million has been reported. lv. and a net profit of 150 million. lv. The good results of the last few years have given the opportunity to cover old overdue debts. For 2017, the reported liabilities are only of a current nature and are reduced by 36.65 per cent compared to the previous year, for which I thank the workers. The company does not work with attracted capital. The stable situation in recent years has allowed the company to make significant investments to modernise its main production capacities, thus extending its production capacity by both nomenclature and volume. New staff were appointed, with an increase in the average number of 945 personnel in 2017. Invested in his equipment and increased qualification. All this is a good foundation and enables the company to respond to the trends imposed since the beginning of the year for increased market demand for ammunition. However, to a large extent, production and trade in special products are dependent on world policy and economic conjunctures and can be defined as cyclical. It is only natural that after a period of increased demand there will be a period of decline. Such a trend has been observed since the second half of 2017, as with regard to the Bulgarian enterprises operating in this area, a standstill in special production orders has been reported. It is also reflected in the activities of the Ministry of Education and Education, and in the first quarter there were realised sales revenues of 31 million. lv. Compared to the same period of the previous year, a reduction of 66% is reported. However, the company reported a profit of 1 million. 232 thousand. lv. and serves its obligations, with their total size falling by 6.24% this year. In practice, the Company implements long-term contracts and prepares capacity for the production of NATO standard products. That's what we invested with last year's money. The management of the Ministry of Education actively works for the conclusion of new contracts, which are in an advanced stage of negotiations. I will not say with which countries, thank you for understanding. We expect with their signature to provide conditions for full load of production capacities and an increase in revenues. Yesterday I was at the Sopot, I saw the trade unions, I saw the management, the collective agreements are signed, we are working actively to secure additional contracts that will secure the company. We have these in advanced phases. Unfortunately, in two of the countries where we also went through procedures, a particular minister changed in one, and in the other a whole government changed, but we expect their decisions. We also have backup options to secure the operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u337	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Genov, you have a say in the matter or you have a say in the matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u338	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It just came up about the personnel appointments. I'm using one piece of paper, you're sure and you know that this does not apply to....................... sopot, for the other capable personnel who can manage the plant, but this is, by the way, because it's.................... sopot. You have delivered quite disturbing data and I do not know what is due to your comfort! Yesterday, when you were, you promised the workers that they would buy 34 apartments, some buildings that are devoid of necessity, are not being used at the moment, to be sold. You know, that wouldn't solve the revenue issue at the factory, would it? The data that you yourself quoted just now should worry you extremely much. Out of 28 million in the first quarter of last year, the profit is now 1 million. 200,000. lv. Net sales of nearly less than 100 million lv. for the first quarter of 2017, there are now one third, more than one third. You said so yourself about 66,6.. 67%. It is true that business is cyclic; it is true that it depends on the political situation around us and in other countries, but Bulgaria has always been a traditional producer of these special productions that are produced in our Military Industrial Complex. Take an example from "Avionams". You yourself said that you would seek procedures by NATO standards, that there is the necessary equipment. But let us not abandon traditional markets, because you see for yourself that they are the foundation and are the backbone of production, because these people are waiting for wages. These people are now very worried about the so-called bonus system. We have information that every day they leave five or six people, and from this high tribune I want you to give them confidence that you will make every effort as a principal to ensure that they are paid and in providing employment, because you know that this structural-determining enterprise on the territory of these municipalities, which the colleague quoted a few moments ago, is extremely important for maintaining low unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u339	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, to supplement the answer. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u340	Thank you. In a nutshell. First of all, let's clear something up about the apartments. It's a worker's request. We don't expect revenue from there, it's not about business. Yesterday I was asked the subject, there are many assets such as sports sites that can not be used and will be put for sale, but hence we do not expect revenue. We expect revenue in companies and I am committed to many meetings, including ambassadors, consuls, to provide with companies. NATO production is one thing, however, basically we make quite different productions, it has a market, just at the moment cyclicality, you know, reduce conflicts, I can't break within myself. This makes me happy that there are no conflicts. But in the end, we're gonna get the IAD to work, and I promise that to you. We are doing everything we can, all the structures in the Ministry of Economy, and Kintex is also working on this topic. We expect a solution very soon on these two transactions, which the IMP has approved, to have a solution. We work with other countries as well. I hope what the board has told me is that by mid-July, the first major contracts, because now there are small contracts, for smaller values, will start. I'll fill you in as I assure you, I'll work for Sopot! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u341	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petrov is in the hall now. If you don't mind, out of time, let's finish the questions for you. Do you have that opportunity? [[Deputy Minister Emil Karanikolov's reply.]] Thank you. Mr. Petrov, congratulations on your personal holiday!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I doubled today between my participation in a serious forum in the Central Military Club building, where a meeting is held Think tank, so-called "the 16+1" where representatives of almost all Eastern European countries and a group of Chinese businessmen are present, so to speak, preparing the soil for next week. It's going to be a very important meeting, so I'm going over there, over here, so let's not waste our time. My question is really related to something that is related to this format.16 + 1........................ that something will come out from there. We basically came to you with Mayor Stefan Radev at the beginning of the year, where we put on the agenda the transfer of the market for fruits and vegetables, built with German investments, and accordingly the establishment of an industrial park around the town of Sliven. I am very pleased that for the past time, Mr. Karanikolov, your people have done a lot of work. The fruit and vegetable auction went under the care of the Ministry of Economy. This means that from now on, we remain looking for a strategic investor, as it will be much easier for... to engage once it is with you. The second is the industrial park for which the municipal council voted its consent. There are letters sent accordingly, but because of the Presidency, this meeting is late, which we have to make. In principle, I am interested: Has the Ministry included these two sites in its schedule so far to be considered priority in one of the most backward regions, unfortunately, today in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u345	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u346	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, happy holiday! By Order No 3 of 5 April 2018, the Council of Ministers changed the authority exercising the rights of the State as a shareholder holding 94.36% of the capital of the market for fruit and vegetables from the Minister of Agriculture to the Ministry of Economy. At this stage there is a procedure for a thorough analysis of the state of the markets "Fruits and vegetables" EAD, on the basis of which the most appropriate options for its development will be considered and discussed, and they are to find an investor. Whether it will be strategic, I cannot say at the moment, because we need to see, firstly, the state of the company, and whether the assets are in line to seek a strategic investor. The important thing is to find an investor who will work and will have employment in the region. With regard to the establishment of the industrial zone on municipal land, the policy of the Ministry of Economy is to provide full support to all investment intentions that contribute to the growth of added value, employment and economic growth in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. One of the main objectives is to create a favourable environment for an investment destination by building industrial zones and technological parks. The normal opportunities for state participation in financing and construction of industrial zones can be considered in the context of the possible participation of the National Company Industrial Zones. The NRIC was created to implement the strategy of the Bulgarian government to support and attract foreign direct investments, and not only as well as Bulgarian in the Republic of Bulgaria. The NRIC aims to create favourable conditions for the implementation of new investment projects by building industrial areas with the necessary leading and local infrastructure, as well as through the assistance provided to investors during the entire investment process. In this respect, in order to make use of the opportunities and experience of the NRIC for the realization of the Industrial Zones Project, there should be the following prerequisites: the requested investor interest with a specific investment project for the region, in order to have properties, municipal or state ownership to be used for the construction of an industrial area, and there should be a possibility that these properties could be included in the capital of the NRIC or in a mixed company between the municipality and the company concerned. In view of the increased investor interest, the NRIC started active work with the Bulgarian municipalities and regional administrations for the development of the regions. Such agreements already exist in Burgas, Vratsa, Sandanski, Lovech, Kyustendil, Varna, Vidin, Dupnitsa, the regional administration in Kardzhali and Stara Zagora. The Memorandum of Cooperation provides: mutual exchange of information, knowledge, ideas and good practices, coordination, development of joint initiatives and projects, active dialogue with state authorities. The cooperation with the municipality of Sliven is specific. On 29 January 2018, immediately after a meeting with the Minister of Economy, an example version of a Memorandum of Cooperation between the two countries was sent by the NRIC. On March 30, permission was obtained from the municipal council of Sliven, which approved the signing of a Memorandum and on the same date was sent an invitation to sign to the Minister of Economy and the Executive Director of the National Company. Full information was sent about the proposed terrain, the buildings in it and the land properties. In this regard, the signing is due, which will be at the end of July. It could have been signed without me, but we always combine it with a business forum and I assure you that this will happen by the end of July. We are currently doing active marketing on these terrains, and at the moment, unfortunately, correctness requires that I tell you that there is no stated interest, but we are doing our best. For example, Vratsa is already interested. Of course, only as information I provide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u347	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petrov, come in for your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u348	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Karanikolov. I am so pleased, as far as I know your great workload, which has been all these six months of the Presidency. Many people do not know how much work is done by you personally. I have no doubt that once you have given your word, you will keep it and Sliven will move things. It is really very important that the fruit and vegetables market, which is very modern, can become an engine for the development of fruit and vegetables production in this area, which so far is very fragmented, unclear and it is really important for an investor to enter and start working in this market. On the issue of the industrial park, I must tell you that the Sliven businessmen, the district manager Mr. Bojurski, the mayor of Sliven Municipality Mr. Stefan Radev, and also the mayor of Kotel Karanashev, with them I have spoken, are people who support the idea of making an industrial park. It will really give opportunities to come to investors who will come without much difficulty to invest. I am glad that Vratsa has an investor and are, as they say, two laps ahead of Sliven on the establishment of their industrial zone. I hope that by the end of July we will be able to make this long-awaited meeting together and move on the events. I want to tell you that I'm already working with other people. The week is coming will still be busy, but the next week we will want to visit you with Mrs. Valentina Alexandrova to talk in details about the Bulgarian-Chinese cooperation in which she is quite inward.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u349	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, if you could complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u350	Thanks again, and I'm done with it. Regarding the fruit and vegetable market company, we have an inquiry, specifically. I hope we make it happen. More than that. However, we explain that there is also an airport that can be used, and currently in the air cargo transport has an extremely high growth. Perhaps Bulgaria also becomes attractive with these airports, which we have not used for years or have not used for the purpose. Regarding the industrial zone, what I will propose to the municipality is to make a company. The Municipal Council should set up a company to import a specific property, invite the National Company to enter with a cash contribution to this company and start building the infrastructure. Investors love our green fields, fields, but there must still be infrastructure built. This is my commitment as a second step, because the investor needs to see that there is work there, and that is the most important. I rely very much on your support, as do all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-29.u351	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question and thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Dear Members of the Parliament, due to the exhaustion of our weekly program, I announce the date for the next meeting of 4 July, Wednesday, 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
