ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I propose, with one minute's silence, that we honor the memory of the dead pilots at Krumovo Airport. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. I propose to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly for June 13, 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers are Cornelia Nino, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Petar Vitanov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev on 22 February 2018. Adopted on the first vote on 29 March 2018. 2. First vote on Draft Laws for amendment and supplement of the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers are the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2018; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018; Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapriyan Yankov on 5 April 2018; Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018; Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forest Techniques. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. 5. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. 6. A bill ratifying the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. 7. Administrative monitoring report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020)). Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. 8. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria was the importer on 30 March 2018. 9. Draft decision approving amendment and supplement to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria was imported on 5 April 2018. 10. Parliamentary control comprising: 10.1. Debates on asking by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria; 10.2. Answer questions and questions. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 6 to 12 June 2018: - Draft for ratification of a programme agreement, No B1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for Multifunctional Modical Medical Formation. The Committee on Defence allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Health; - A bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the national system for electronic collection of tolls in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. The importer is Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Health; - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. Importers "Krum Zarkov" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs. It is assigned to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights; - Annual report on the activities of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2017. The importer is Dimitar Lazarov; - Annual report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Distributed to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Messages: - On 7 June 2017 with entry No 802-00-30 in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 20, para. 2 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act received a consolidated annual report on the internal control of the public sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 1 January 31 December 2017, submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the subcommittee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. - On 12 June 2017 with entry No 839-00-13 in the National Assembly received a letter from the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, together with the attached to it: 1. A copy of a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, No RD-NS-04-36 of 8 June 2018. 2. A copy of a letter received in the National Health Insurance Fund on 28 May 2018, with entry No. 01 00 78 from NHIF Governor Kamen Plotchev. 3. Report on the hospital sheets submitted by the Governor of NHIF Plamen Plotchev according to a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, No RD-NHS-04-36 of 8 June 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Health. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about: Gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2018; Labour productivity, employed persons and time spent for the first quarter of 2018; R &amp; D indexes in the section Here you are, Mr. Boychev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to remind you that on 17 May, we also adopted the draft decision report of the Temporary Committee for CEZ. It's been almost a month. Point 5 of the Project for a Decision, I would like to remind you of it, is as follows: The Bulgarian National Bank to provide in due order the National Assembly with information on the financial commitments made by Bulgarian banks regarding the upcoming deal with Inercom Bulgaria to acquire the assets of CEZ Bulgaria in the country. I would like to remind you that this information has been refused to the Temporary Commission, but this point has also become a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament on 17 May, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 42. Yesterday I did a background check, this information had not been submitted to the National Assembly until yesterday. It is unnecessary, Madam President, to remind you of the place and role of the Bulgarian Parliament in relation to the Constitution of the country and at the will of the Bulgarian citizens where it is located. I hope you will address the relevant inquiry to the Bulgarian National Bank and this information will be provided. I think this will be a very clear test for this essentially we republic of Bulgarian citizens, or are we a republic of Bulgarian banks. I would like to tell you that if this information does not enter the National Assembly, we will take appropriate action afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I will examine the issue and poison the relevant question to the Bulgarian National Bank. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is related to something that I put in front of the National Assembly perhaps for the tenth time and this is a bill of "United Patriarchs" or the so-called interest notes or for citizens with housing savings. Let me remind you that we have submitted together with our colleagues from Volja and from the DPS such a bill. You have done wonders, by the way, with a violation of the Rules, in my opinion, but in the end, only the Bill of Members of the House of Ataka came into view, who had a lot of shortcomings, but this is another matter. We all voted for the whole room. Then from then on, he doesn't go to committee so he can go to second reading. I now declare to you: I officially blame the GERB group for your deceiving your constituents. You voted in favour with the simple and clear awareness that you cannot vote against this. You were ashamed to vote against. And at the moment, after all of you have voted for suppose, you are absolutely falsely trying not to score for second reading, by the way, again the same colleagues from GERB. This is the second time! The past National Assembly did it the same way with the same bill. It's past the National Assembly, you didn't vote. In this National Assembly, we have done it a second time and have been rolling the same bill for a year now. You're lying to your constituents because here I see some of you reacting. You should be ashamed. If you're not ashamed, come and tell me so I can answer you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report will introduce us to her chairman. Here you are, Dr. Ademov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ? Report on a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 854-01-12, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Petar Vitanov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev, adopted at the first vote on 29 March 2018. "Improvement and supplement of the Social Security Code (prom., SG No. ...) The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u7	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I'll make a brief statement. I would like to express my gratitude on behalf of the group that 6 months after our meeting with the parents of soldiers who have died in overseas missions, we have managed to find a political consensus and support texts with which the state has demonstrated a fairer attitude towards the loss of these people. At second reading, the leading Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee made a number of changes, which may have been aimed at giving a clearer legal definition of the importer's intention and had, above all, an editorial character. The initial meaning of the changes is preserved, so the BSP will support the proposals made in the Commission. Perhaps the only exception is in Transitional provision..............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u9	You will speak there, this is the second reading, Mr. Vitanov, there you will have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u10	Okay, thanks. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u11	Thank you. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u12	To speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u13	A statement on that subject? Come in for a speech, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, the Bill is important, we will support it as we have always supported decisions relating to statehood, to the Army, with respect and respect for the military. Of course, this is a good example of how to work together and how to achieve success. I would like to thank everyone who has participated in this process. This is the way, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u15	Thank you, General Popov. Any other comments or comments on General Popov's statement? I can't see any lines, there's no other words. We are going to vote on the amendment to the title that the Commission supports. Vote 152 MPs: 150, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u16	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 4 after the word "services" is added to the servicemen who died in the execution of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u18	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u20	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 2 after the word, the deceased in the execution of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u22	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 4. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 4. Vote 128 MPs: 121, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u24	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 7 after the word "services" is added to the servicemen who died in the execution of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u25	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u26	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the To create a passage provision with § 6: ........................................................... The parents of the servicemen who died until the entry into force of this law in the execution of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country shall be entitled to a survivor's pension for military disability under art. 82, para. 4 from the date of submission of the application. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u27	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly-founded Department of Transport with § 6. They voted 146 MPs: 146, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u28	Before we vote on the next proposal, Madam President, I would like to make it clear that we are voting on these proposals separately, because then they are part of the transitional provisions and, if they are adopted by the National Assembly, then they will find a place in the "Transitional provision." Proposal by the National Representative Kalin Popovski, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: To create a passage provision by § 7: .................................................... (1) The parents of the students and schoolmasters of secondary, semi-high and senior military schools who have not served as a standard military service and who have died during and in connection with the post-age training, but before the expiry of the period, which shall be respected as a standard military service under the legislation in force at the time of death, shall be entitled to a survivor's pension for military disability, regardless of their age. (2) The amount of the pension of the persons under para. 1 shall be determined by the size of art. 86, para. 1 equal to the next pension for military disability of a private or sergeant in the case of permanently reduced workability over 90 per cent. The pension shall be granted from the date of submission of the application. (3) The persons under para. 1 receive in full their personal pension and survivor's pension for military disability. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u29	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u30	Thank you, Madam President. As I said, this transitional provision is the only one that actually extends the scope of the proposed change to the Social Security Code, including another category of people, namely the parents of fallen schools in secondary, semi-high and higher military schools. I believe that we should be very precise and attentive to any exception in the Social Security Code, which is somewhat contrary to the principles of this provision. We find this proposal rational and appropriate for the group to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I put to the vote the proposal for the creation of a transit provision with § 7. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u32	Following the adoption of the last two proposals for a new § 6 and a new § 7, the Commission proposes to set up a "Transitional provisions' by paragraphs 5 and 6, as follows: "Transitional provisions' § 5. The parents of the servicemen who died until the entry into force of this law in the execution of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country shall be entitled to a survivor's pension for military disability under art. 82, para. 4 from the date of submission of the application. § 6. (1) The parents of the students and schoolmasters of secondary, semi-high and senior military schools who have not served as a standard military service and who have died during and in connection with the post-age training, but before the expiry of the period, which shall be respected as a standard military service under the legislation in force at the time of death, shall be entitled to a survivor's pension for military disability, regardless of their age. (2) The amount of the pension of the persons under para. 1 shall be determined by the size of art. 86, para. 1 equal to the next pension for military disability of a private or sergeant in the case of permanently reduced workability over 90 per cent. The pension shall be granted from the date of submission of the application. (3) The persons under para. 1 receive in full their personal pension and survivor's pension for military disability.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u33	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Transitional provisions' by paragraphs 5 and 6. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE. The first report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u34	Madam President, please, before I introduce the Members of the National Assembly to the Commission Report, put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Valentin Jovev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u35	Please vote on the motion for admission. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u36	♪ I can't believe on bills amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area: No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers; No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs; No 854-01-21, imported from Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapreyan Yankov; No 854-01-39, imported by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs; and No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 30 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed five draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area: No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2018; No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018; No 854-01-21, submitted by Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapreyan Jankov on 5 April 2018; No 854-01-39, submitted by Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018; and No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, Mr. Valentin Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Ivan Nestorov, Head of the National Building Control Directorate, experts from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Sofia Municipality, the Chambers of Architects and Engineers in Investment Design, the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators. On behalf of the importers, Draft No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Valentine Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The aim of the proposed amendment is to reduce the number of documents which the interested parties submit to the DNCC and to alleviate the regimes by reducing the administrative burden on applicants for the submission of documents in paper form by which the administrative authority can be supplied in a professional capacity. For issuing a certificate for carrying out the activities under art. 166, para. 1, t. 1 The National Building Control Directorate will be able to require by official means a document for recognition of acquired higher education in foreign higher education, issued by the National Information and Documentation Centre. Draft No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Iskren Veselinov. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are aimed at reducing the administrative and financial burden in the processes of planning, investment design and construction solution. The changes provide for operating companies providing services in the field of water supply and sewerage, electricity, heat supply and gasification to provide the administrative authority with the output data and information necessary for the development of development plans and investment projects. The agreement of the assignments, of the proposals to amend detailed planning plans, of the draft design plans and their amendments to the operating companies will be carried out by the mayor of the municipality or by the relevant competent authority, and the operating companies shall be obliged to provide the requested information, reasoned objections and prescriptions within 14 days of the request. The procedure and time limits within which the coordination and provision of the relevant information should be carried out are laid down. The bill provides that, when submitting visa applications, the investment intention is to be described and that the information necessary for the design and connection to the networks of technical infrastructure is to be provided by the operating companies in a professional capacity. Draft Law No 854-01-21, submitted by Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapreyan Yankov, was presented by Mrs. Petya Avramova. The bill aims at overcoming contradictions arising in practice between the provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area and the Law on the Chamber of Builders on the implementation of part of the constructions of the fifth category of builders, which are not listed in the Central Professional Register of the House. The bill proposes to further limit the types of constructions of the fifth category and their developed area, which can be carried out by builders who are not listed in the register and the corresponding amendments to the House of Builders Act are also provided. Draft No 854-01-39, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov and Mr. Christian Mitev. The proposed amendment and supplement is necessary in order to update and improve the existing provisions to strengthen the state's control in the face of the DNCC on displaced sites. The main part of the amendments and additions are aimed at removing the incompletes, contradictions and inaccuracies existing in the Law concerning the functions and powers of municipal administrations and the state as regards the control of the moving objects in the property.. State property, or in properties co-owners between the state and natural and/or legal persons. The removal of moving objects in these properties will be carried out by the National Construction Control Directorate. It is envisaged that temporary transferable sites used for holding public events should not be subject to the restrictions proposed in the project on the size of the sites. The bill provides for easing the regime on building deviations, forming the last part of the network of network operators from the land line to the building of the user, through which connectivity is realized upon request by the subscriber. Visified building deviations are usually not pre-built, are constructed after a specific user request and are thus rarely located in existing infrastructure. As such, they are a sixth-grade construction that requires a construction permit and therefore slows down the overall process of providing the service access to the Internet. The proposed supplement to the Law overcomes existing problems. Draft Law No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. The proposed changes aim to optimise the procedures for the construction of the linear objects of the technical infrastructure located in the territory of more than one municipality and to synchronise them with the forecasts of the general planning plans of the municipalities through whose territory they pass. The Bill also proposes amendments to the Water Act to regulate the waitouts for the public benefit of water supply and sewerage systems and public ownership of the state and municipalities, as well as the eligible activities in the exercise of the service rights. The changes will make it possible to significantly shorten the deadlines for reconstruction of the obsolete water systems and will allow for the implementation of projects financed under Operational Programme "Environment" and the Rural Development Programme. The Commission received opinions on the various bills from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the National Association of Municipalities, from the chambers of architects, engineers in investment design and builders, and from the Association of Cable and Communication Operators. The opinions express principled support for the submitted bills, while making appropriate proposals for the clarification of texts in separate provisions. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the National Assembly expressed their principal support for the submitted bills and agreed with some of the remarks and proposals expressed in the opinions received by the Commission and made during the discussion, which should be taken into account in the further discussion of the drafts. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government shall: - with 15 votes for.................................................. to the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 15 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 15 votes.................................................. to the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 12 votes....... 6 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 18 votes for.................................................. to the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Who will present us the Report of the Committee on Education and Science? The Energy Committee? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018. At its regular meeting on 6 June 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov, who stressed the main objectives to be achieved with the above-mentioned bill. The proposed amendments to the Construction Act are aimed at reducing the administrative and financial burden in the processes of planning, investment design and construction authorisation. The changes provide for operating companies providing services in the field of water supply and gasification to provide the administrative authority with output data and information necessary for the development of spatial plans and investment projects. The bill provides for the coordination of the assignments, the proposals to amend detailed planning plans and the draft planning plans and their amendments to be carried out by the mayor of the municipality or by the competent authority under art.124a, para. 3 and 4 and operating companies are required to provide the requested information, reasoned objections and prescriptions within 14 days of the request. The procedure and time limits within which the coordination and provision of the relevant information should be carried out are also laid down. When submitting visa applications, it is intended to describe the investment intention and to specify the baseline data necessary for the design and connection to the networks of technical infrastructure to be provided by the operating companies. The model of the application is intended to be approved by the Minister for Regional Development and Public Works after its agreement with the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The proposed amendments to the Code of Conduct in the territory are also in line with the amendments adopted to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted at the first vote, which provide that the authority before which administrative proceedings are initiated requires the relevant administrative and judicial authorities, persons performing public functions and bodies providing public services within their competence, to issue and submit certificates, documents and other evidence or information relevant to administrative proceedings. Mr. Valentin Jovev "Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works" expressed principle support on the proposed bill, stressing the need for editorial amendments in some of the proposed texts between the first and second votes. After the end of the discussion and on the basis of the 18-vote energy committee vote, the Committee on Energy, without the opposition, and the 3 votes of abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water follows. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u40	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. At the meeting held on 7 June 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Valeri Simeonov Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy; by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov Deputy Minister, Mr. Ivan Angelov Director of the Department of Air Protection and Pollution Prevention, Ms. Maria Chenkova from the same Directorate of Health, Mrs. Rositsa Karamfilova, Head of the Department of Environmental Development and Public Works, Mrs. Stella Todorova, Head of the Department of Natura 2000 and Protected Areas; and by the Ministry of Health: Dr. Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister; and by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Mrs. Ivanka Videnova Director VikiK, and Mrs. Vesela Stancheva Senior Expert in the same Directorate. On behalf of the importers Mr. Alexander Nenkov presented the Bill... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u41	Colleagues, please be quiet! Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u42	...and the reasons for his acceptance, noting that he was prepared with the assistance of representatives of the MRDP. Mr. Nenkov stressed that the problem is quite a long time ago, but has been sharpened by the legal changes since 2001, with the proposed changes aimed at filling in the emptiness in the regulations, which will shorten the time limits for the reconstruction of obsolete water systems, and will enable the realization of sites with financial support of the EU funds. He also pointed out that the Bill achieves uniformity of provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area and acts on its application by provisions of the Water Act, stressing once again the importance of accelerating reconstructions and replacing obsolete plumbing and sewers, including on the territory of more than one municipality. The attitude of the Bill took: Mrs. Videnova from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which confirmed that a failure in the regulations on existing plumbing and sewage collectors was removed, and for those after 2001 the regime was set up. The changes will allow for the timely removal of accidents, as well as for the implementation of reconstructions and replacement of obsolete water ducts and sewer collectors having the most urgent need; the People's Representative Manol Genov, who announced support for the bill by asking a question about compliance with existing regulations, received a response from Mrs. Videnova and the President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, who stressed the importance of the bill and its benefit in the contribution to the implementation of projects for the extension and modernisation of the water systems. After the discussion and the vote were concluded, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 18 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-41, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. With the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who will introduce us? Here you go, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-39, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. During a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 6 June 2018, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area was discussed, No 854-01-39, submitted by Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Simeonov - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy; Mr. Valentin Yovev The bill was presented by Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Simeonov emphasized that the main part of the amendments and additions are in order to remove the incompleteness, contradictions and inaccuracies of the functions and powers of municipal administrations and the state as regards the control of the moving sites in state property, or in properties co-owners of the state, on the one hand, and natural and/or legal persons, on the other. The proposed amendments and additions propose the granting of permission to place moving objects by the main architect of the municipality to take place according to a decree of the municipal council. It is envisaged to draw up a scheme for placing, including the dimensions, the constructive solution and the architectural and artistic layout of the moving objects. The bill sets out texts according to which for the movable objects of a temporary nature which are used to conduct public events should not apply the restrictions under art. 56, para. 7 of the Law on Structure of the Area. The creation of art. 57b in the Law on construction of the territory, which provides the objects under art. 56, para. 1 placed on State property, or property co-owners between the State and natural or legal persons, to be removed from the DNCC authorities. The bill also provides for the establishment of a framework for those building deviations forming the last part of the network of network operators from the land line to the building of the user, through which connectivity is realized upon request by the subscriber and are of a regular length of up to 100 m. Mr. Simeonov explained that the building deviations listed above are usually not pre-built, are constructed after a specific request from the user and are thus rarely located in the existing infrastructure. In this respect, it is considered that, since buildings are not located in existing physical infrastructure, building deviations are a sixth category building which requires the issue of a construction permit and therefore slows down the overall process of providing the service access to the Internet. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held during which the text on the relief of the regime for the deployment of building deviations was discussed. The debate was attended by the MPs Halil Letifov and Dimitar Danchev, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of branch organizations. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. We are about to get acquainted with the Committee on Education and Science report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will introduce you to the First Voting Report of the Committee on Education and Science. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2018. At its regular meeting held on 28 February 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2018. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Valentin Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Kalin Kostov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Milena Damyanova, Director of the Science Department at the Ministry of Education and Science. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Valentin Jovev. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed amendments and additions aim to reduce the number of documents that interested parties submit to the National Construction Control Directorate and reduce the administrative burden on applicants for the submission of documents in paper form. The proposed provision provides for the possibility for the National Building Control Directorate (DNCC) to require by official means a document for the recognition of acquired higher education in foreign higher education, issued by the National Information and Documentation Centre (NACID). On the draft in the Commission, an opinion was received by the Ministry of Education and Science. The same was presented to the MPs by Dr. Petar Nikolov. The opinion supports the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, specifying that the proposed supplement takes the necessary steps to reduce the number of documents to be submitted in paper form to the DNCC. The discussion included MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Milen Mihov, Milena Damyanova and Sergey Kichikov. Mr. Milen Mihov and Mrs. Milena Damyanova asked questions whether the proposed supplement would lead to the elimination of the possibility of being issued by the NACID certification documents in paper form and if the procedure for this is changed. Mr. Stoyan Mirchev expressed concerns about the requirements for translation and legalization of diplomas, as well as an opinion that other amendments and additions are needed in the Law on Construction of the territory and such partial additions should not be made. Ms. Milena Damyanova disagreed with Mr. Stoyan Mirchev's concerns because the proposed addition does not affect the process of legalization, recognition of diplomas acquired in foreign universities. On the questions asked Mr. Yovev and Mr. Nikolov explained to the MPs that the proposed amendment and addition do not change the rules for issuing certificates from NACID, but only create a legal opportunity specifically for the DNCC to require from NACID on a professional basis a document for recognition of acquired higher education in foreign higher schools necessary for carrying out the activities under art. 166, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result of 11 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Maleshkova. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the presentation of the laws in question. I recall, they are with importer Council of Ministers, Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapriyan Yankov. The next bill was submitted by the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The fifth draft was introduced by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. I'm giving the importers the opportunity to present their bill. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, for the presentation of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u48	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This bill, tabled by the group of the United Patriarchs, aims to reduce the administrative burden. This is a very common motive in recent legislative initiatives. I believe that it has a particular value in terms of having the ambition to untie a knot in the investment process, which is extremely painful for those who are involved in construction, both citizens and companies. Bulgaria is from the few countries where the future consumer, e.g. electricity, pays first to examine whether the energy company can join it. This amount is not small at all, it is over 600 leva. for the ERPs, and includes the incredible effort to check in the computer system to which object of the energy infrastructure the future user should be connected, where he says That is to say, with one operation, the duration of which is of the order of 15 minutes is estimated by serious figures. Following is the whole agony of coordination of PUPs, projects with these energy companies and other utility companies to be joined by the future construction. Specially for the ERPs it is estimated that the average time for accession, which is taken up by the respective citizen or company, is about 240 days. 240 days we pay tax to the ERPs for something they should be doing, only by their economic interest to join a new customer in the energy transmission system. In the past, the National Assembly had a special debate of the then KEWRC Monitoring Commission on the topic of "Exporting" where monstrous facts were presented, including up to two years of entrepreneurs cannot join their sites, suffer losses and lost benefits, and there is no power to force the ERPs to do what should actually be their business. We have been ambitious and have created a new concept of ZUT, with all agreed by PUPs and projects being carried out by the mayor of the municipality or an authorized by him, i.e. with the submission of a visa, the future investor states what parameters he wants to be provided by all utility companies. The mayor shall request information by official means, it shall be submitted within a two-week period by the utility companies and shall be placed on the visa. Failure to fulfil this obligation will cost the ERPs and other utility companies 1000 BGN. a week's penalty, which empowers the mayor to impose on them. In practice, we believe this will unblock the process and was strongly supported by all possible organizations that are involved in construction and design, as well as by state institutions - MRRB, respectively DNCK, was supported by the KEWRC. The only ones who were against are the ERPs and their association, because it is clear that they will have this in their pocket, roughly speaking, and will lead to the non-accumulation of millions of profits that are absolutely wrongfully collected by customers. I thank all my fellow Members in the committees who supported this bill, without any distinction to their party affiliation. The bill has received support. We are aware that there will be an improvement in the texts between first and second readings, but I think that Parliament will give a good sign by voting one on this bill and imposing citizens' interest in the interests of monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Is there another importer who would like to present his bill? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, to present Bill No. 854-01-39, to which you are an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed amendment and addition of LU is in response to the unsatisfactory activity of municipal administrations controlling the sites under art. 56, para. 1 of the LU, and it is necessary to update and improve the existing provisions of the LOC to strengthen the control of the State in the face of the DNCC on the same. The main part of the amendments and additions are in order to eliminate the incompleteness, contradictions and inaccuracies existing in the Law concerning the functions and powers of municipal administrations and the State as regards the control of movable objects in state property or property ownership between the State, on the one hand, and natural or legal persons, on the other. The proposed amendments and additions provide for authorisation to be granted by the chief architect of the municipality in order laid down by a decree of the municipal council. It is intended to draw up a scheme for placing, including the dimensions, the constructive solution, the architectural and artistic layout of the moving objects. It is envisaged that temporary transferable sites used for the use of public events shall not be subject to restrictions under art. 56, para. 7 of ZUT. The establishment of a new provision is envisaged.............................................................................................. 57b, for the subjects referred to in Article 57b. 56, para. 1 placed on State property or property ownership between the State and natural or legal persons which are intended to be removed by the DNCC authorities. The amendments and supplements proposed by the Draft Law are in line with the increased public interest and the numerous media publications on the regime of placement, registration and removal of the sites of Section IX, Chapter Three of the ECT. The proposed amendments will ensure a predictable procedure for placing movable objects in state property or property which are ownership between the State and municipalities or the State and natural or legal persons and for their removal in the event of unlawful establishment. In addition to the above, this bill provides for the establishment of a framework for those building deviations forming the last part of the network operators' network from the land line to the user's building, through which connectivity is made upon request by subscribers of up to 100 m in length. They are built after a specific user request. In this sense, they are rarely located in existing infrastructure. It is considered that if they are not located in existing physical infrastructure, building deviations are building category six, which requires the issue of a building permit and therefore slows down the overall process of providing the service To address this problem and in order to ensure the consumer's request for connectivity to the Internet to be satisfied for as short a period as possible and under the most relaxed conditions, the current change is proposed taking into account the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 April 2014 which was introduced in Bulgarian legislation by the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. There a similar possibility is given through the legal definition of construction of minor importance. When examining the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, this relief of the regime of deployment of building deviations was not carried out with the argument that the amendment should be carried out in the course of a discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, as is the present case. In view of those considerations, provision shall be given to those public relations by proposing the establishment of such a provision by § 4 of that bill. During the discussion in the Committee on Regional Policy, Local Government and Public Works, constructive proposals were made, which we will take into account when preparing the proposals between first and second readings. The bill has principled support from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and MRDPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other importers willing to submit the other bills? Mrs. Petya Avramova will present Draft No. 854-01-21, submitted by the MPs Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapriyan Yankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u52	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I will present a brief statement of reasons for the bill we have tabled. The main objective of the bill is to clear up contradictions between two provisions in force. One is in the Law on Construction and a provision of the Law on the House of Builders. At present, the Law on Construction of the territory imposes a ban on the execution of the fifth category objects, according to art. 137, which regulates the categories of types of construction. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 157 of the Law on Construction in the Area there is a provision that says that there should be a contract for the implementation of the construction with a builder entered in the Central Professional Register of the Builder, as well as a contract for copyright supervision with the designer for construction category 5. At the same time the Law on the House of Builders in art. 14 makes an exception for construction of residential and mixed buildings with low building, fork buildings and constructions under art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 These are the constructions of the fifth category, letters "in" and "d" of the Law on Construction in the Area, that can be performed by builders who are not registered in the Register. In addition, in art. 237, para 1, item 1. 10 serious fines are provided for builders of category 5 construction that are not registered in the Register. On the other hand, however, even the DNCS does not have a reasoned interpretation for the implementation of these provisions. However, the practice shows that there is a mass construction of industrial and commercial buildings, of residential buildings with a small area as the Law allows them, of mixed buildings, the open door for construction is for constructions up to 1000 sq. m, from construction groups and brigades of dubious competence, which in most cases are without contracts and accounting documents. Random technicians sign a technical management contract, and when these constructions are put into operation the problems for investors themselves begin. We propose to synchronise both laws for residential and fork buildings with an area of up to 300 square meters to be given the opportunity to be executed by builders who are not registered in the Register. All other constructions of the fifth category of industrial, commercial, mixed, will be carried out by builders registered in the Register of the Chamber of Builders, which means that they will be provided with data on employees under contract with the relevant competence, for them there will be data on the ownership of machinery and equipment to give security to the investors themselves for the quality performance of the construction. The practice of unlicensed, unregistered individuals will also be limited to fulfilling this opportunity given to them for constructions up to 1000 square meters, serious constructions for which they cannot be guaranteed their performance quality. In the powers and duties of technical managers remain residential and fork buildings with an area of up to 300 square meters, and in all other cases the duties will be carried out by construction supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u53	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. There's one bill left. Mr. Nenkov, you are welcome to present Bill No. 854-01-41 with importers Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the bill which I and my colleagues have drawn up for amendments to the Law on Construction in the Area aims to solve two important tasks, topics which are largely a failure in legislation. The first part of the bill provides for the following amendments. You know, in recent years, the state has invested a great deal in developing common planning. In the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government every year, we make proposals for amendments to the State Budget Act, and we have always tried, although with little investment in spatial planning throughout the territory. The fact is that in recent years many of the municipalities are either in some advanced phase or have already made common plans. At the same time, there are very large infrastructure projects that require them to be carried out in the common planning. The idea of our bill is because sometimes the process of designing the investment project provides until it is ready, when the exact routes will be known, through which will pass the example highway, only when this investment project is made, it is only then known where the route will pass. By presumption, only then can the municipalities through which these routes pass can they begin to phase out changes in their common planning plans in order to make these routes. It takes an extremely long time and is a very hard-working process. For this reason, we have made proposals precisely for such projects, which go beyond the urbanised territories of more than one municipality, for their investment projects to be implemented in the general construction plans of the municipalities on a business road. Of course, every community has to make its own rules to do this thing. On the other hand, investment projects must also take into account the existing common planning plans of the municipalities. The other problem with which we are trying to solve a hole in legislation is in the Water Act, although we are doing so through the Law on Construction in the Area. However, the problem is very serious and it is necessary to find a solution, because it is the water supply and sewer network outside the urbanised territories. These are the water supply collectors from the treatment plants that were made before 2001. The problem is that the water supply manifolds manufactured, made and placed before 2001, maybe 50 years ago, were nowhere described in the cadastral map or in the recovered property map. Only in 2000 with the adoption of the Water Act and 2001 with the adoption of the Law on Construction in the territory began to regulate the process and there are described such existing sewerage and water supply networks, where it is clearly regulated what the servers are, how the legal part is to be used and well regulated. You know that at the moment under Operational Programme "Environment" as well as Operational Programme "Rural Development" there are huge funds that need to be invested in the next years precisely in the water network. You know she's far behind the road, we're talking 90 grand. miles of such a network. A problem may arise in the implementation of the Operational Programme by the lack of certain existing waitresses, a way of public use. When these projects start to take place, that would be a problem. I repeat: that is why we have proposed that outside the urbanised territories, where there are water supply networks, to define with this bill relevant waitouts, use, so that the programmes and investments provided for in them can be realistic, as there is a huge need for serious investment in the water sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Honourable Members of Parliament, we will proceed to debates on the five drafts presented at the same time, after which each of them will be put to the vote separately. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area, presented by a group of Members of the National Assembly, aimed at introducing official presentation of output data from operating companies representing services in the field of water supply, electricity, heat supply and gas supply, as requested, does not correspond to the reduction of administrative burden, planning and investment design claimed by importers. It is quite controversial that the proposed texts are the issuance of a visa for designing with the input data to join the technical infrastructure networks after submission of an application on a model. Some of the things I'm about to mention have not been clarified. It is not clear how contracting entities will determine the necessary data and quantities when submitting the application on a template. Does everyone know the required quantities of water and the necessary capacities? It is not clear how the design visa will serve as a contract. The order for its actual signature should be laid down. Is it not clear that the need to conclude a preliminary contract for the issue of a construction permit is dismissed? A major problem in investment design. It is not clear how the rights to change the investment intention of the entity are guaranteed, perhaps a new procedure, a new visa? Will municipalities guarantee the correctness of the output data issued? We know that much of the technical infrastructure of the operating companies has not been properly done either in the regulations or in the building plans, especially in the specialized cadastral maps, which are missing for most of the country's territory. Last but not least, it remains the question of the design baseline data in cases where a design visa is not required. There are currently options in the current ECT that do not require a visa for design. I will set an example of the inability of the time limits to proceed with the detailed planning plans under the proposed bill. In accordance with the provisions of Ordinance No 8 on the volume and content of the spatial plans, detailed design plans to be approved by the municipal council or by the mayor of the municipality shall be drawn up in one paper form and in a digital form on a technical medium and a digital copy and in paper form for the Geodesy, Cadastre and Cartography Agency. In this regard, I ask you: how will a project be coordinated with five operating companies within 14 days and reasoned objections be made to the submitted data by the contracting authority, and to the competent authority in this case the municipality? These are a small part of the questions on this bill that remain unanswered. Once again, we will partially amend the Law on Construction in the Area without an in-depth analysis of its impact on investment design and planning and without a comprehensive vision of the resulting consequences that are enshrined in its concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches on the draft laws under discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will take account of the bill submitted by Mr. Mitev and a group of MPs. At the beginning, I would like to say that there are texts that deserve attention and support, but there are also texts that completely change the philosophy of some of the provisions in force. What do I mean? As of this time, under Article 3 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The regime is as follows: a retailer who wants to place a moving object, whether on state, private or municipal territory, i.e. property. applies an application, accordingly request to the municipality concerned, applies documents and receives permission or refusal. The proposed changes make the following: a text is recorded that the owner of the land property will now issue a request to the respective municipality, respectively the main architect for permission. We understand what the idea is. It is mainly for state estates, where there is not much control, to avoid the uncontrolled, illegal placing of moving objects, which are then very difficult to remove. Thus written, the text will cause more problems than it will solve. I can even say something else: in para. 5 of art. 56 This issue is regulated and there it is written that if you want to be authorised to place a moving object on state, private or municipal property that is not yours, that is to say, on a foreign property you must apply the written consent of the owner, that is, there is no case here. But what happens if this para. 2 is changed as proposed for placing a moving object on municipal property? This means that the municipality, as the owner of the municipal property, should ask for its own permission to place on this property the moving object! The retailer must go to the district government, find the relevant civil servant, pray to him, encourage him in any way to activate him to prepare documents, prepare applications, present them to the district governor, who, figuratively speaking, to ask him to submit an application to the municipality, and then must wait again through the district government whether the permit has been issued or there is a refusal. The greatest absurdity is when it comes to state properties that are owned by the ministries. I remember here, in this Chamber, perhaps two months ago, we discussed similar changes again about the moving objects in the Law on Marine Spaces and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Then we told you that you were creating an extremely difficult procedure. You didn't listen to us! With these texts we walk in the same direction. In order to place a popcorn stand in one of the public access areas, whether at sea or river ports, which are owned by the Ministry of Transport, that is, the principal is the Minister of Transport, you must combat the entire administration and bureaucracy of the respective Ministry of Transport in the case of transport to get to the Minister in order to write an application to the municipality in order to obtain permission. I think that's ridiculous. And that is why, as we talked about the Ports Act, this creates an extremely difficult procedure and increases extremely bureaucratic obstacles. By the way, such a problem probably will not stop at this in detail, but will also occur for the beaches because they may be on concession, but the owner is the state and the Ministry of Tourism. That is, to set up a moving object, to ask permission from the municipality again you have to go to the Ministry of Tourism to issue the application because it is written in the text. And second of all, he mentioned Mr. Mitev in his presentation the changes in art. 151, namely easing the procedure with which there is a logic for deviations from the shaft to the user's building for electronic communications networks. My personal opinion is that this really should have been enshrined in the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. At the time, however, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Transport had negative opinions. Now for the same text their opinions are positive and we in the Commission asked them: what caused this change in less than two or three months? We have encountered silence, now I do not see it here, but the President of the Commission Mr Letifov directly asked them is, there is no answer. Therefore, by summarizing all these arguments that we have pointed out, we from the BSP, on this bill at first reading, will vote abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Any lines on the speech? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Article 56, as in the Commission, we have discussed, in the four drafts with proposals for amendments to the LU there is a resonant. In the Commission, we, such as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, supported it because of the fact that we are relieving the arrangements for issuing the relevant documents in construction and permits. However, I will take account of the pre-final point, which was then both in the Commission and here on the agenda................................................................................................ the proposal by Mr. Mitev and other fellow MPs. Honourable colleagues, our concern as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms" on the moving sites is that we know why this bill is being proposed because of the large district cities on the Black Sea, illegal constructions, moving sites that are there. We should bear in mind that in Bulgaria there are 176 smaller municipalities than these 266, where such moving sites serve not only as commercial sites, but also for other activities that have been placed on the part of the private business, given to the municipalities themselves as such to serve the citizens in settlements. I can even give an example of that in elections we have such moving objects, which, notice, are more than 15 squares and higher than three meters and which we use for election sections. What do we do, say, with these moving objects, given that within six months, as in the proposed bill, we need to change or remove them, or introduce them into what will be adopted with this bill? This is simply impossible and I am convinced that in no municipality the chief architect and the mayor of the municipality will afford to remove these sites locally. That's one. In other words, we have such sites, which in small towns, organizations such as ACS, RPCs supply bread and other products, food products, settlements with 20 each, with 30 people each, and there are no food stores, pubs and any other social services other than those provided by RPCs through such moving sites and feeds the population that is there. So there are things that, between first and second readings, we, as a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will propose to have a valuable type of bill itself. We don't mind, of course, having control. But this control should not be carried out solely by the DNCC. Once again, I will repeat the word I use in every speech that concerns the municipalities. Dear colleagues, once again we are going to centralisation of the activities envisaged as decisions and regulations in the municipal administrations themselves and decisions taken by the municipal councils. We continue to centralise power, not to decentralise it, although you claim that these are European directives that must be respected. There is nothing European in what is proposed in this very bill.. No 854-01-39, because we restrict municipal councils, local councils, mayors of municipalities to take their own decentralized decisions and to assess on the spot what permission to be issued and what not issued. So, honourable Members, I think that between first and second readings we will have debates on this subject, we will offer certain requirements, but without limiting the decisions of local municipal councils and the mayors of municipalities. Let's stop centralizing and let's not burn the flea and burn the quilt, which over the years, unfortunately, we continue to impose literally as a state to the local authorities. Honourable Members, we do not agree as a Movement for Rights and Freedoms" in the proposed bill, with the changes in the ZUT on art. 151 for access of electronic communications and internet networks to buildings up to 100 meters. We have practice, we see what happens in all municipalities. Yes, let there be a mandatory permit for construction and mandatory control in these purchased or underground infrastructure projects. Why? Yes, let's not delay people, just shorten the time limits for building permits, make the proposal so that the building permit is issued within a certain time limit when it comes to access, say Internet cables or television to existing buildings where no pre-arranged underground infrastructure is provided for to take out the regulatory line. Let's do it this way, not without building permission everywhere to dig and at some point in restoring this infrastructure, which has been destroyed, whether it's new or old, it doesn't matter, pavement panels, asphalt flooring and supposedly recover after a certain activity, but in the first pouring rain or within a month with the hitting that happened, it's so ugly. You all see by the municipalities every day what happens and then no one comes again to repair their infrastructure, which is settled, say, after certain rains. Let there be control by the chief architect of the municipalities, by the DNCC, of supervision and by the contracting authority, who will be responsible for carrying out such infrastructure projects. Dear colleagues, that is why we on this point............................................................................................. Art. 56 and art. 151 which concerns precisely such irregularities and there are no specific requirements and may need a change between first and second readings, we will vote against. For the other proposals, I have said before, we will vote for..... so that we can support the activities that have a reasonable meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We're moving on to the next speech. Please specify who will take the first word? You were the first to make a statement, so you have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first part of my speech is related to the Bill of Mr. Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, who are undoubtedly looking for a solution to some serious spatial problems that have existed for many years. Surprisingly, the two involved ministries with this problem, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment and Water, have shown sloth on this issue and have had MPs to do their job. However, the issue is really important because the proposed amendments to the Law on the Construction of the Area aim to optimize the procedures for building the sites and the technical infrastructure, especially in the Water Infrastructure. This bill also provides for amendments to the Water Act to regulate the public benefit waitouts of water supply and sewerage systems, public ownership of the state and municipalities. In the current regulation there are no texts that clearly regulate the eligible activities that water operators can carry out in their operational work on maintenance of existing plumbing and sewerage systems, all the more so that the systems built before 2001 outside the urbanised areas are implemented without being applied to the Map of restored property, which creates huge problems in the investment process, in the development of the water network, related to the efficient use of the funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" and the Rural Development Programme. We know that most of the infrastructure built by the past is outdated and is in a very poor operational state. Repair and reconstruction of the same is extremely important. In the Commission, the representatives of our parliamentary group supported the proposed bill, and we will support it in this House with the clear awareness that there are some ambiguities that need to be cleared between first and second readings. I will try to give an example of this, namely the change in art. 124b, the newly created para. 6 which provides for the authorisation under art. 124a, para. 9 for the development of a detailed development plan for technical infrastructure sites, the implementation of the common and detailed spatial plans in the scope of the affected land properties under the adopted version of the preliminary draft art. 126, para. 6, p. 1 of ZUT. It is not clear here what it means in the scope of the affected properties. Is this about the whole property or parts of the land property affected by the pipeline or by its server? This really allows for arbitrary interpretation and must be cleared between first and second readings. Of course, and with the technical editing that once the purpose of the land is changed, it is now a regulated land estate. A few words on the Bill of Mr. Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. I agree with my colleague Tanner Ali that there is once again a serious collision between the powers that local authorities have and the legislation that we adopt. In addition, I believe that these amendments, which we will not support at first reading, also lead to the risk of failure to act by the control authorities. With the amendments of LU from 2012 the powers between the DNCC authorities and the mayors of municipalities on the control of illegal construction were divided, and the constructions from 1st to 3rd category remained within the powers of the DNCC and the powers of control of the constructions from the lower categories from 4th to 6th were provided to the mayors of the municipalities. Property ownership is not a determining criterion. The logic of the Law is that the DNCC as a specialized body performs control and takes action to eliminate illegal constructions, which are complex cases of fact and law. Control of the constructions under art. 56, para. 1 has so far been the mayor's authority. The new proposal introduces an additional criterion determining the powers of the relevant ECT body to be ownership of the property. In the territorial competence of the relevant regional department, the National Construction Controls (National Construction Controls) are many municipalities. Here we differ as an opinion from the importers that Directorates and departments have already had sufficient capacity in terms of control of illegal construction, and in the regional departments there is a limited number of employees, which really leads to a risk of inefficiency or an increase in the state, which also means more budgetary costs for the effective performance of the control functions of these departments for national and construction control in the regions concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any requests. Speaking from other parliamentary groups? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thought that the debates would be separate for each bill, because that would make it clearer. First, under Act No 802-01-5, which was drawn up in connection with the reduction of the administrative burden when applying to persons having legalized diplomas from foreign educational institutions in order for the DNC to require these certificates on a professional basis. We will support this bill as it is needed by the industry. I will take account of Law No 854-01-21, submitted by Petya Avramova and a group of MPs. Dear colleagues, the Law on Structure of the Territory for the past 17 years has been changed 78 times This clearly shows that it is essential to adopt a new Law on Construction in the Area, the Law on Investment Design and Construction, and to call it the Law on the Construction Industry. Such is the opinion of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria, the Chamber of Engineers of Investment Design and the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria. As a general rule, the proposals made in the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the EP are aimed at remedying deficiencies in the existing provisions of the EP under art. 14, para. 2 of the House of Builders Act. I will start with what is said in the House of Builders Act, as it is related to the main topic. It aims, first, to identify and transparency the activities of the constructionists. Secondly, improving the management of the construction work, increasing the responsibility of the builder to meet the essential requirements for the construction works and quality of the construction works concerned. Thirdly, protection of the interests of users of construction services. In this context, each building, regardless of its size, must comply with the current regulations and approved projects, which shall be established by able designers, control bodies and builders registered in the central professional register of the builder. The registration in the register ensures that a quality construction product is obtained as the builders must meet all the legal requirements, including having required equipment, necessary technical guidance personnel, to control the quality of construction performance, to comply with the construction products that are put into place, and also, which is very important, to comply with health and safety conditions of work. Everything that has been said so far leads to the conclusion that it is high time that the exceptions given by the provisions of art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the House of Builders for objects low-story and complementary construction, to drop out at all. This was also clearly expressed at the meeting that we, the members of the Chamber of Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, held with the Board of Directors of the Chamber of Builders. I think the industry can and should be trusted, and there are conditions for internal control. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in Bulgaria there are about 20 thousand construction companies, of which only 5100 are registered in the Central Professional Register of the Builder. I share the view that a company cannot perform construction activities, regardless of which category, if it is not listed in the Register. The rules can't apply to 5100 companies, and the rest can't. This is not generally fair, distorts the market and enables the grey sector to flourish. In addition, mass practice is now low-level construction to be carried out by construction brigades that do not pay insurance and the corresponding taxes, which is detrimental to the national budget. This, in turn, also distorts competition. I also consider the proposed change to art. 168, para. 2 of the LU, which provides for construction supervision to be introduced for the fifth category objects. Companies building sites of this category already have the necessary potential for management and control, as well as built administrative capacity for shaping the necessary documents in the course of construction and until authorisation for use by municipalities is granted. This, in turn, will cost the construction and is to the detriment of the contracting entities of small objects. We will not support this amendment in the Law because we believe that all the envisaged changes should be discussed and provided for in two new laws, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. It is necessary at this stage to drop art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the House of Builders and all fifth category objects to be executed by builders registered in the Register. The hasty adoption of certain laws, as well as their amendments and additions, often leads to further amendments to correct errors. In recent months, we have witnessed many such examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines on Mr. Dinkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no registered MPs, and I don't see anyone who wants to be in the room. I'm closing the discussion of the five bills. As I have already announced, we will vote separately each of the bills that we have examined at this point. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area No 802-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 142 MPs: 140, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area No 854-01-7, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area No 854-01-21, submitted by the MPs Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapriyan Yankov. Vote 151 MPs: 108, against 27, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area submitted by the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. Vote 160 MPs: 102, against 57, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the latest Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area, No 854-01-41, with importers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Vote 156 MPs: 146, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The five Draft Laws on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Device in the Area of First Reading were adopted with this. Moving on to the next point in our daily program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTION FROM THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMICAL INGREDIENTS AND MESSAGES. Here you go, Mrs. Vassileva. We'll start working on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, if I may, a procedure for admission to the Chamber. Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u67	We are voting on the proposal for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. They voted 123 MPs: 118, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to take his place in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the General Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes adopted on 3 May 2018 on the First Voting Draft on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018, and Draft on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. General project - Second vote. The Law on the Protection from the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u69	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We vote on the title of the Law and the texts of § 1 and § 2 proposed by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 112, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u70	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "Chapter 2" and "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" and the word "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" and "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" and "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" and "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" shall be replaced by "Chapter 2" 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. The creation of para. 10: The implementing measures of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 introduced in Chapters 2 and 7 and 8 shall apply in accordance with art. Art. 1, 3 "5" and Art. 1. 7 "9" of the same Regulation, not applying the provisions of art. Article 4 (1) and (4), Article 4 (1) and (4) 11, 12, 13 and 14 of that Regulation on mercury waste and art. 10 of the same Regulation on dental amalgam.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u71	Are there any statements under § 3? I don't see any requests. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the wording of § 3. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u72	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: Article 4 is inserted. 3a: Art. 3a. Natural and legal persons may be exempted from registration, authorisation and/or restriction obligations under Title II, III, VI, VII, VIII and/or IX of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH) for certain chemical substances on their own, in mixtures or in articles in the interest of defence, in the presence of one or more of the following circumstances: 1. the provision of information on the production, use or placing on the market for the defence of a chemical on its own, in a mixture or in a device may lead to a threat to national security; 2. the absence of alternative chemicals or technologies may result in a loss of ability to produce, maintain, repair or modernise a defence product, as well as a breach of the long-term security of supply for the purposes of production, maintenance, repair or modernisation of such a product; 3. the ability of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out their task may be impaired; 4. an obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria to limit disclosure of information in the field of defence may be violated; 5. It is necessary to ensure the fulfilment of obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from its participation in international organizations or political-military alliances for collective defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u73	Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are voting on the wording of § 4 in the version proposed by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u75	Are there any statements under paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the Report? I won't. We are voting on those paragraphs. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u76	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... A new article shall be created. 6: Art. 6. (1) Imports of mercury and mixtures of mercury pursuant to Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 for use authorised in the country shall be carried out after agreement by the Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him. (2) The importer under para. 1 or an authorised person shall submit to the Minister of Environment and Water an agreement form for imports in an established format pursuant to art. 6 of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852. (3) To the form under para. 2 shall apply the information in accordance with art. 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852. (4) In the case of non-compliance or incompleteness found in the form under para. 2 or in the information under para. 3 The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall inform the importer or his authorised person within 10 days of the date of submission of the import form. In these cases, the term under para. Six stops running. (5) The importer or the person authorised by him shall remove the non-compliances or incompletes of the form referred to in para. 2 or the information under para. 3 within 10 days from the date of receipt of the notification under para. 4. (6) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall consent to import within 30 days of receipt of the form under para. 2. (7) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall refuse to grant an import consent where, following an evaluation of the information under para. 2 and para. 3 it has been established that: 1. the non-compliances and incompleteness committed have not been resolved; or 2. the term under para. is not respected. 5. (8) Refusal under para. 7 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) For the processing of the form under para. 2 the importer shall pay a fee according to the tariff under art. 72 of the Environmental Protection Act
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u77	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text proposed for § 8, which creates a new art. 6 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u78	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... A new article shall be Art. 7. (1) Any natural or legal person intending to produce or place on the market a new product with added mercury or to use a new production process including the use of mercury or mercury compounds shall submit to the Minister of Environment and Water a notification containing contact details of the person and information under art. 8 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852. (2) The notification and information under art. 8 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 shall be submitted in one copy in Bulgarian in paper and electronic form and in one copy in English in paper and electronic form.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u79	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of § 9 in the version proposed by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u81	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the texts of paragraphs 10 and 11 of the Report. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u82	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12: ................................................................................... Article 7c is amended as follows: Art. 7c. (1) The Minister of Environment and Water may draw up a draft National Implementation Plan for the Minamata Convention on Mercury signed in Kumamoto, Japan on 10 October 2013. (Rated by law............................................................................................... The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in 61 from 2017), hereinafter referred to as the "Supreme', pursuant to art. 20 of it, and offer its update. (2) The plan under para. 1 shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers and sent to the European Commission and to the Secretariat of the Convention by the Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u83	Thank you. Are there any statements under § 12? I can't see. We are voting on the wording of § 12 in the version proposed by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any statements on the reported texts of paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Report? I don't see any requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for texts in paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16 has been adopted. Dear Members of Parliament, before I announce my break, I have a pleasant duty to read to you a summer proposal, I think. An exhibition of the artist Yordan Marinov will be opened at the Club of the People's Representative. Welcome to the opening! You're all invited. Take a break. 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u86	Let's get back to work. Please start with the presentation of § 17, Dear Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17: Seventeen. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 20a "20e": Art. 20a. (1) Exemption from the application of Title II, III, VI, VII, VIII and/or IX of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH) under art. 3a shall be carried out on the basis of an authorisation granted. (2) Competent authority for issuing the authorisation under para. 1 is the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, hereinafter referred to as the International Council. (3) The terms, procedures and time limits for issuing, refusing, amending, suspending and withdrawing the authorisation under para. 1, requirements for preventing or limiting harmful effects on human health and the environment, as well as information under art. 20e, t. 2 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. (4) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued for a period of not more than three years and shall apply only to the cases, types and quantities of chemical substances referred to therein alone, in mixtures or in articles and their uses. The authorisation may be extended once for a period not exceeding the period for which it was originally granted. (5) In the authorisation under para. 1 specify the measures to be applied by the person to prevent or limit the harmful effects on human health and the environment. (6) The privileges of the authorisation may not be transferred and passed on, including when converted under art. 261 of the Commercial Law, except in the event of a change in the legal form of the person. Art. 20b. For issuing the authorisation under art. 3a An application shall be submitted to the Interdepartmental Council on a template with documents attached to it under the ordinance of art. 20a, para. 3. Art. 20c. (1) The Interdepartmental Council shall grant authorisation where an exemption under Article is permitted. 3a and the applicant shall be eligible for authorisation as defined by the ordinance under art. 20a, para. 3. (2) The Interdepartmental Council shall refuse authorisation where: 1. No exemption under Article 1 shall be allowed. 3a; 2. the applicant does not meet any of the conditions for granting an authorisation laid down by the ordinance under art. 20a, para. 3; 3. the information in the application or in the documents attached thereto is incorrect; 4. the information in the application or attached documents is incomplete and is not provided within 7 days of the date of notification thereof. (3) The Interdepartmental Council shall amend the authorisation in: 1. an established need to change a measure or add a new measure to the authorisation according to art. 20a, para. 5; 2. extension of the original authorisation under art. 20a, para. 4. (4) The Interdepartmental Council shall terminate the authorisation by written application of the person to whom the authorisation has been granted. (5) The Interdepartmental Council shall withdraw the authorisation when the grounds for exemption under Article 2 have been dropped. 3a. (6) The Interdepartmental Council shall immediately inform the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Health and the Customs Agency in any case of issue, refusal, amendment, suspension or withdrawal of authorisation and shall provide a copy of the authorisation issued. (7) The decisions of the Interdepartmental Council may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not suspend the enforcement of the contested act. Art. 20 years. (1) The Interdepartmental Council shall establish and maintain a register of authorisations issued which shall not be public. (2) The register shall contain: 1. number and date of authorisation; 2. the name, seat, representation and address of the person to whom the authorisation has been granted; 3. grounds and date of amendment, termination and/or withdrawal of the authorisation; 4. observations on the recorded circumstances. Art. 20e. The persons to whom authorisations have been granted shall be required to: 1. comply with the requirements and measures to prevent or limit the harmful effects on human health and the environment as defined by the regulation under art. 20a, para. 3 and in the authorisation according to art. 20a, para. 5; 2. maintain and annually by 31 January to provide the Interdepartmental Council with the information specified by the ordinance under art. 20a, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 17. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, i.e. 1 concerning para. 4 the words "social-economic analysis' shall be replaced by "economics'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u90	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18 with the editorial amendment, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 which is proposed by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u91	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u92	Paragraph 19 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u94	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u95	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 s 3 are amended as follows: The Minister of Environment and Water, the directors of regional environmental and water inspections or officials authorised by them shall exercise control in the cases referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 3... 9, 13, 14, 15.. 17a, 27.. 31 and 33 and art. 25, para. 2, p. 1 to protect the environment. (2) State health control bodies under the Health Act shall exercise control in the cases referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 2, 2a, 3, 7, 10, 14a, 18 25, para. 2, p. 2 to protect the health of the population. (3) The authorities of the State Controls under the Plant Protection Act shall exercise control over the classification, packaging and labelling and safety data sheets of the plant protection products placed on the market and intended for export under the Plant Protection Act, including prohibitions and restrictions on pesticides with mercury added under this point. 8 of Part A of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 25, t. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) 4. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 25, t. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination 5. In para. 7 words.............................................................................. 25, t. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this 6. In para. 8 words.............................................................................. 25, t. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure 7. The creation of para. 9. In the cases referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 32 The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection or officials authorised by him shall exercise control under the Law on Consumer Protection and in accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/852.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u98	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 22, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u100	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 23, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u101	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 24: .................................................................................. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 65: It's 65. The use of mercury, mixtures of mercury or mercury compounds authorised under relevant Union or Bulgarian legislation, including uses under art. 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u102	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 24. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u103	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u104	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u105	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, adopt a national plan by 1 July 2019 on measures to gradually cease the use of dental amalgam, according to art. 10 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852. (2) The National Plan under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health and shall be sent to the European Commission within one month of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u106	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 25. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u107	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordinance under Article. 20a, para. 3 on a proposal from the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u108	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 26. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u110	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 138 is created. 7 and 8: It is punished with a penalty of 30 000 to 100 000 BGN. sole trader or legal person who violates the requirements of art. 11 and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on mercury and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008 (OJ L 137/1 of 24 May 2017.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2017/852.' (8) In case of repeated infringement under para. 7 a penalty of 60 000 to 200 000 BGN is imposed 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150 para. 2 is amended as follows: For carrying out the transport of hazardous waste defined as illegal, according to art. 2 paragraph 35 of Regulation (EC) No are to breach the prohibition on the export of mercury waste under art. 3 of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 or for violation of a prohibition under art. 98, natural persons are punished with a fine from 3000 to 15 000 BGN, and legal persons and sole traders are subject to a penalty of 50 000 to 250 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u112	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 28. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u114	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall be supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Sustained. Thank you for presenting the texts of the bill, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Honourable Members, we continue with the next item of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTERATION AND CONTROL OF THE EARTH AND THE GREEN TECHNOLOGY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will present Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov to Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Georgi Alexiev, Head of the Directorate General for Agriculture and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u116	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. Invite the guests in the hall. Please continue, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u117	Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment No 802 01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 6 June 2018, discussing the quoted bill. Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov took part in the meeting of the Commission, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Nikolay Marinov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Regional Policy. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The changes shall introduce national measures for the implementation of European regulation relating to the requirements for gaseous and particulate pollutant emission limits and for type-approval of internal combustion engines for non-road machinery. In this regard, the scope of the Law includes the placing on the market and supervision of the market of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. The order for their placing on the market is set out. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry as a competent type-approval authority and market surveillance authority shall be empowered and notified to technical services. A Standing Committee shall be established to assist the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in carrying out type-approval procedures. The organisation of work of the Commission will be determined by regulations for each procedure for approval. The procedure for issuing or refusing to issue an EU type-approval certificate for each type of internal combustion engine has been established. Regulation for national type-approval of trailers and interchangeable coupling equipment is in place and the terms and conditions for approval and issue of certificates will be laid down by a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In addition, the scope of the Law includes vehicles for all terrains and multi-purpose out-of-road vehicles for the transport of persons and goods. The terms and procedures for their registration will be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and their movement will take place only exceptionally and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the regulation under art. 140, para. 6 of the Road Traffic Act. It is envisaged that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should establish a national public electronic register which will replace the existing information database and significantly expand the scope of the information to be maintained. The activities of acquisition of competence for agricultural and forestry equipment are detailed. The requirements and conditions for granting authorisation to carry out training for applicants and the powers of the controlling authority are laid down. The relevant administrative criminal provisions are laid down. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill establish a legal basis for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to issue regulations on specific requirements for food safety and quality. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the regulation of the activities of acquiring capacity to work with the equipment is too detailed and should be regulated in a regulatory regulation. In addition, the five-year period provided for the validity of the certificate for the registration of training forms for the operation of the technique is unjustified. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms parliamentary group also described as too detailed the regulation of training to work with technology. They expressed concern that some of the proposals could lead to an increase in administrative and financial burdens, the establishment of a new expert commission and certification fees. In relation to the questions raised by the Ministry, they replied that there would be no increase in the administrative and financial burden, as no new charges were introduced and the expert commission would use the available capacity of the Ministry. Regarding the training certificate, they said that the shorter period was to maintain the level of skills to work with the technique. With regard to the inclusion in the scope of the Vehicle Act for all terrains and multi-purpose out-of-road vehicles, they explained that given the massive entry into the market of this type of equipment, its diverse use and the numerous incidents with it, it is imperative that it be regulated under what conditions and order it will be registered and put into service. Traffic on roads open to public use will only be permitted exceptionally and in the order determined for the movement of wheeled tractors, tractor trailers and other self-propelled machinery registered under the Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment Act. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 802-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u119	Here you are, Professor Bachvarova. As usual, you will open these debates. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as has already become clear, the change in the Law concerns three main directions. We will not comment on the first direction, as it is about the implementation of a European regulation relating to emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants, and we, as a country, as a member of the European Union, are obliged to apply these changes and requirements of the Regulation in our legislation. The second amendment concerns the extension of the activity of the registration of agricultural and forestry machinery with a corresponding technique which has not been subject to registration so far. There was a discussion. Of course, there's a gap in the fact that ATVs or UTVs or whatever, there's no one to register them. Under this law will be realized the intentions of people who want to register this type of technique in Bulgaria. Here, unfortunately, I am under the impression that it is not very clear how the regulation, which will respectively issue the Minister of Agriculture, and also the Regulation under the Law on the Movement of Roads of these vehicles, will be implemented and at what time will the Joint Ordinance be, independent of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the Movement in the Republican Road Network?! This is something which is likely to be discussed after the adoption of the Law and is unlikely to be ready for such a regulation because absolutely no additional information was given about the possibility of these vehicles using the Republican road network. The third round of issues to be resolved by the Bill is related to the training of candidates for the acquisition of competence to work with equipment. At the beginning of this section, it is said that the Minister of Agriculture and Food will present a regulation and, first of all, will determine the order and manner, will issue certificates of competence and control of the activity. Our objections to procedural rules are related, firstly, to the fact that certificates are issued for five years, which is a very serious discrepancy with certificates given for other vehicles. Why five years? The fact that a new technique is entering the market is hardly a reason for the certificate to be issued for five years and then to be republished again. The other objection that we have, and respectively between first and second readings, will be related to the requirements that operators or trainers must fulfil in order to be able to create prerequisites for the implementation of the training process. I think it's unnecessary to say that the temperature in the room should be 18 degrees or have daylight, have night lights, have ventilation. All of this, written in a law, seems a little far-fetched, all the more so that the regulation should specify precisely these issues. It is a fact that there are different systems and practices in the National Assembly with regard to the regulation, but when the Law lists too detailed requirements, it seems to me that it is not a good practice. To conclude, I would like to say that we will support the Bill, between first and second readings we will make proposals that will create Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u121	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 802 01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. They voted 93 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because the amendments to the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment increase the administrative burden on Bulgarian citizens, first. Secondly, there is no capacity for the institution you propose to carry out this registration and control. And thirdly, you are using again with amendments to the Law to impose a form of repression by the state to conscientious Bulgarian citizens, without it being clear that this legislation will be guaranteed to be stable for a long period of time. With these changes, if you do not hear the voice of experts between first and second readings, you will create further chaos in the administration. This administration, which Bulgarian citizens expect to reduce as a composition, will need to be expanded because you actually rely on the administration and its families to support you during elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. That was his negative vote. Let's continue with: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. There is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u124	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. At its regular meeting on 6 June 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. The bill was presented by Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy." Long-term cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of satellite navigation is of common interest, and Switzerland is directly involved in the Galileo and EGNOS programmes. The sectors in which cooperation activities are carried out shall be spectrum, research and training, procurement, industrial cooperation, intellectual property rights, export control, trade and market development, standards, certification and regulatory measures, security, the exchange of classified information, the exchange of personnel and access to services. The Agreement does not affect the institutional independence of the European Union to regulate European programmes for the Global Navigation Satellite System or the structures created for this purpose. Decision No 778 of the Council of Ministers of 2013 approved the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes and authorised the Ambassador and the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union to sign it on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to subsequent ratification. The Agreement was signed on 18 December 2013 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. At its regular meeting on 6 June 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of an Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes. The bill was presented by Mr. Zhelyaz Enev, Director of Economic Policy and Promotion at the Ministry of Economy. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Emil Komatichev, state expert in the Directorate of Economic Policies for Promotion in the Ministry of Economy. This Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Swiss Confederation is on the occasion of resolutions of the Space Space Council and, in particular, resolution............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The development of a Global Navigation Satellite System designed specifically for civil purposes, as well as long-term cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and Switzerland in the field of satellite navigation, is of common interest and Switzerland is directly involved in the Sectors in which satellite navigation and time reporting cooperation activities are carried out are spectrum, research and training, procurement, industrial cooperation, intellectual property rights, export control, trade and market development, standards, certification and regulated measures, security, the exchange of classified information, the exchange of personnel and access to services. In order to protect the European programmes for the Global Navigation Satellite System against threats such as abuses, disruptions, interruptions and ill-intentions, the Parties shall take all possible measures to ensure the continuity, safety and security of satellite navigation services and associated infrastructure and critical assets in their territory. To that end, Switzerland shall, without undue delay, adopt and implement, within its jurisdiction and in accordance with its national law, procedures and measures which ensure an equivalent level of security and safety, such as measures applicable in the European Union with regard to the protection, control and management of sensitive assets, information and technology of the European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Programmes with Member States with which it has concluded bilateral agreements for that purpose. Switzerland shall contribute to the financing of European programmes for Global Navigation Satellite Systems. Its contribution shall be calculated on the basis of the proportionality ratio resulting from the determination of the ratio between Switzerland's gross domestic product at market prices and the sum of gross domestic products at market prices of the Member States. Switzerland's contribution to the European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Programmes amounted to 80 million over the period 2008-2013. Fifty thousand. 870 euros. For the period 2014 and subsequent years, Switzerland's contribution shall be paid annually. Decision No 778 of the Council of Ministers of 2013 approved the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes and authorised Dimitar Tsanchev to sign on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. The Agreement was signed on 18 December 2013 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 8 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and the abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u128	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 6 June 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The motives under the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov. The basis for the signing of the Agreement is Resolution "Global challenges: full use of European space systems" adopted on 25 November 2010, which invites the European Commission and the European Space Agency to facilitate the process of participating Member States which are not simultaneously members of the European Union and the European Space Agency, at all stages of cooperation programmes. The development of a global navigation system designed specifically for civil purposes, as well as long-term cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Switzerland, of the other part, in the field of satellite navigation, is of common interest. Switzerland is directly involved in the Galileo and EGNOS programmes at the stage of their designation. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote, facilitate and deepen long-term cooperation between the Parties in the field of satellite navigation under civil control and in particular the participation of Switzerland in the European global navigation system programmes. In order to promote and achieve the objectives of the Agreement, where appropriate, the Parties shall cooperate on all emerging issues relating to the global navigation system, particularly within the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the International Maritime Organisation and the International Telecommunications Union. The sectors in which satellite navigation and time reporting cooperation activities are carried out are spectrum, research and training, procurement, industrial cooperation, intellectual property rights, export control, trade and market development, standards, certification and regulatory measures, security, the exchange of classified information, the exchange of personnel and access to services. Switzerland's contribution to the European programmes amounted to 80 million for the period 2008 to 2013. Fifty thousand. and 870 euros. For the period 2014 and subsequent years, Switzerland's contribution shall be paid annually. Representatives of Switzerland shall be invited to participate as observers in the committees set up for the management, development and implementation of activities under the European Global Navigation System Programmes, in accordance with the relevant provisions and procedures and without the right to vote. Each Party may, after consultations within the Joint Committee, take appropriate precautions, including the termination of one or more cooperation activities, if it considers that no equivalent export control or security has been ensured in relations between the Parties. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of the last notification of its approval by the Parties, which shall be carried out in accordance with their internal procedures. It shall be concluded for an indefinite period. As regards the parts of the Agreement falling within the competence of the European Union, Switzerland and the European Union, they agree to apply it provisionally from the first day of the month following the date of the second notification of approval. The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and vote held, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are voting for a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kanev, the proposal you will make now is admissible.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u130	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 80 of our Rules of Procedure I am making a proposal that the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, No 802-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018, be adopted at a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u131	Are there any other suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u132	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u133	We are voting on the proposal made to adopt the Ratification in a second vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Please read the Decision Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u134	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on European satellite navigation programmes A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes, signed in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium on 18 December 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u135	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote. We are voting on the bill of ratification at second reading and the just-read solution of the stands by Mr. Kanev. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: The Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on an Entrepreneurly and Forced PARTNERSHIP between the EUROPEAN UNION and the EUROPEAN ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITY AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Before the report, the procedure. Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u136	Madam President, please put to the vote a procedure for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Todor Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u137	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. We vote first to allow the Deputy Minister's office. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to attend the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to present the Report of the Leading Commission on this ratification. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u138	This Regulation to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u139	Honourable Members, I ask for silence in this House and respect for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u140	Rather, respect for Armenia, because this agreement is important to them. At its regular meeting on 6 June 2018, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Yuri Sherk. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Danail Chakarov, Director of the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Mr. Gancho Ganev, Director of the Directorate of Eastern Europe and Central Asia in the same ministry. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above agreement signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels. Until now, relations between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia are governed by the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, in force on 1 July 1999. This Agreement is a comprehensive and ambitious format for partnership and takes into account the new global political and economic interests shared by both Parties. [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, I suggest that we pause for a moment until our colleagues calm down and finish their bilateral talks so that we can continue the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u142	The entry into force of the Agreement is expected to become the basis for a greater political and economic commitment of the European Union with Armenia, and in particular "Bulgaria's" with Armenia. The movement of goods, services and investments between the European Union and Armenia is expected to increase and this will contribute to the economic and social development of Armenia. In addition, enhanced cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice should lead to strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Armenia and to establishing enhanced trade and economic cooperation and improving mobility and human relations. The Agreement includes clauses on cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia in the field of implementation of internal reforms, foreign and security policy, including migration, crisis prevention and conflict management, countering terrorism, combating organised crime and corruption, countering proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, control of exports of small arms and light weapons and others. It is also intended to deepen cooperation in transport, energy and nuclear safety, the environment, climate change, taxation, education and culture, employment and social affairs, banking and insurance, industrial policy, agriculture and rural development, tourism, research and innovation and mining. The agreement also contains important commitments in several areas of trade policy, which are expected to improve bilateral trade conditions between the European Union and Armenia, taking full account of Armenia's obligations as a member of the Eurasian Economic Union. They should provide a better regulatory environment for economic operators in areas such as trade in goods, services, establishment and management of companies, capital movements, public procurement, intellectual property rights, sustainable development and competition. The reasons under the Bill state that in a number of areas the Agreement also aims to bring Armenian law closer to the acquis of the European Union. The Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Bulgaria are traditionally in good relations that develop on both bilateral and multilateral basis, as well as within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership initiative. The Eastern Partnership remains a priority during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union as a means of strengthening stability, security and economic progress in Eastern Europe and the South Caucasus. In this regard, it is pointed out that during the state visit of President Rumen Radev to Armenia, held in the period 12 February 2018, Bulgaria is committed to ratifying the Agreement within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds asked whether political changes in Armenia would contribute or hinder the real implementation and implementation of this agreement. Mr. Scherk said in response that there is no reason to believe that the change of government in Armenia will have a negative impact on the implementation of the Agreement, but on the contrary. In his words, the new government in Armenia has reaffirmed the country's foreign policy course for cooperation and cohesion both with the European Union and for maintaining close relations with Russia and therefore no difficulties should be expected in implementing the Agreement. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 8 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Comprehensive and Strong Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Following is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u144	♪ I can't believe on the draft law on ratification of the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 6 June 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Yuri Sherk, who presented the Bill. The objectives of this Agreement shall be: strengthening the comprehensive political and economic partnership between the Parties to the Agreement; strengthening the framework of political dialogue in all areas of mutual interest; contributing to strengthening democracy and political, economic and institutional stability in the Republic of Armenia; promoting, preserving and strengthening peace and stability both in the region and internationally; enhancing border security and promoting cross-border cooperation and good neighbourly relations; strengthening cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice with a view to strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; strengthening mobility and interpersonal contacts; supporting the efforts of the Republic of Armenia to develop its economic potential through international cooperation, including through the approximation of its legislation with the achievements of European Union law; establishing enhanced trade cooperation; establishing conditions for ever closer cooperation in other areas of mutual interest. This Agreement shall be concluded for an unlimited period. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt, on the one hand, a Draft for the ratification of the Comprehensive and Strong Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u145	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 6 June 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, which is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons under the bill were presented by Yuri Scherk The Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, was signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels. The relations between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia are currently based on the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, in force on 1 July 1999. The new agreement is a comprehensive and ambitious format for partnership and takes into account the new global, political and economic interests shared by both parties. The Agreement includes clauses on cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia in the field of implementation of internal reforms, foreign and security policy, including migration, crisis prevention and conflict management, countering terrorism, combating organised crime and corruption, combating proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, control of exports of small arms and light weapons and others. The Agreement also contains provisions on cooperation in a number of areas, including transport, energy and nuclear safety, the environment, climate change, taxation, education and culture, employment and social affairs, banking and insurance. It contains an extensive share of trade, indicating important commitments in several areas of trade policy. These commitments will improve the conditions for bilateral trade between the European Union and Armenia, while fully taking into account Armenia's obligations as a member of the Eurasian Economic Union. They will provide a better regulatory environment for economic operators in areas such as trade in goods and services, the establishment and management of companies, the movement of capital, public procurement, intellectual property rights, sustainable development and competition. In a number of areas, the Agreement also aims to gradually bring Armenian law closer to the acquis of the European Union. The relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with Armenia are traditionally good and are characterized by satisfactory high-level intensity. They develop on a bilateral and multilateral basis, as well as within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership initiative. At the moment, Estonia is the only Member State of the European Union that has ratified the Agreement and the ratification process has taken place within the framework of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Armenia has also successfully completed the ratification of the Agreement. As a positive sign, the ratification of the Agreement by Bulgaria is expected to take place within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The agreement will be implemented in all its fullness after its ratification by all the Member States of the European Union. After hearing the reasons for the draft, a discussion and a vote was held, which resulted in 15 votes for the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, to adopt a draft ratification of the Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u147	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. I'm calling off the debate. Are there any speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill ratifying the Comprehensive and Strong Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia of the other part, No 802-02-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u148	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, in this consensus, I believe that it is appropriate to propose on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Strong Partnership Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018, shall be voted on at second reading. In this way we will observe the tradition that Bulgaria is one of the first countries to ratify this type of agreements with the Eastern Partnership countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. We are voting on the proposal that Ratification be voted on at second reading. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Are there any speeches? I won't. Mr. Vigenin, will you present the solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u150	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose that the bill ratifying the Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018, be voted on at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u151	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Mr. Vigenin, come back to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u152	We need to get our procedures sorted out a little bit, fellow Members of the National Assembly! On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this draft is proposed to ratify by law the above Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, No 802-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 May 2018. I think, honourable Members, that I can save all the explanations, as they are the same as at first reading, and simply suggest that we vote at second reading. [[Laughter, noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u153	Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u154	Honourable Members, because very rarely the Committee on European Affairs is leading on these bills and some things do not finish them. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part A single member. Ratifying the Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed on 24 November 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The Bill has already been read with a single member. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposed bill. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, with which the Law for ratification at second reading. We move to the next item on today's agenda: ADMINISTRATIVEMonitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Integrating the ROMS (2012 - 2020). We'll start with the reports. First we will hear the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u156	Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. Two for clearance. Please allow Mrs. Hristina Hristova Vice-President of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, and Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u157	We vote on the proposal for admission to allow Mrs. Hristova and Mrs. Ivanova. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Proceed, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u158	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on an Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 -2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, and Ms. Daniela Nikolova State Expert at the Secretariat. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. The Administrative Monitoring Report is in line with the decision of the National Assembly of 1 March 2012 on the adoption of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). Every year, the Council of Ministers submits a report to the National Assembly, which presents the results of the implementation of the Action Plan to the National Strategy. The report is drawn up by the Secretariat of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues on the basis of the information submitted by the institutions, taking into account progress on the measures and activities under the six priorities of the National Strategy, namely: education, health, employment, housing, culture, rule of law and non-discrimination. The reports on the implementation of municipal action plans under the adopted 28 district strategies are also presented in an annex for information. The administrative monitoring report for 2017 includes a prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and an expert assessment of the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma. Mrs. Ivanova noted that a System for Monitoring, Assessment and Control for the Implementation of the National Strategy was developed. This system will start functioning in 2019 and aims to support integration policies through regular and systematic information provision, monitoring, evaluation and control of achievements, failures of the Strategy and other interventions aimed at improving the situation of Roma in Bulgaria. In the 2017 Report, information from the Commission on protection against discrimination concerning complaints lodged and files filed on ethnic grounds is also included. Mrs. Ivanova emphasized on the problems of censusing the population related to filling out the maps of ethnicity. She stressed that in order to identify all stakeholders involved in integration policy, a National Roma Platform was drawn up and a register of NGOs was created working on the problems of the Roma community. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vasil Antonov, Stoyan Mirchev, Valentina Naydenova and Krasimir Velchev, who expressed their views on the report and asked questions to Ms. Rositsa Ivanova. The focus in the discussion was on problems related to domestic crime and the need for prevention by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior: with self-determination by ethnicity, with the inclusion of Roma children in the educational system, with health prevention of the Roma population and the search for solutions to create sustainable employment. Opinions were also said that the presented report is formal and the measures laid down do not solve the specific problems of the Roma community. Mrs. Ivanova answered the questions, saying that the problem of Roma integration is not only ethnic but also part of the long-term fight against social exclusion and poverty problems. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 7 votes for the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802 "23," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018, proposed to the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802 "23," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights also proposes a draft decision of the National Assembly. Madam President, if I should read the Project?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u159	Read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u160	Project! DECISION under Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to Section VIII, p. 6 of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012) HAS DECIDED Administrative monitoring report for 2017 for the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u161	Thank you. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! I see Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov is not here as responsible for the portfolio. My procedure is to invite him, not for anything else, not because I'm picking on him because he's gone. Perhaps it is not obliged to attend all the debates, but what will be developed from here on is a debate about whether there is real integration and whether there are systems and mechanisms in the country that will somehow monitor and manage this integration. Since the report we have heard now and the report of our committee, which we will hear later, which has a negative opinion on the point, there is a lack of them. In my opinion, the presence of Valeri Simeonov is necessary, simply because we have to, in order not to be formal this point and, in order not to simply pass through the room and leave with some vote on one side and on the other, its presence is necessary in order to identify any measures towards this real government to do something about integration. Therefore, it is my formal procedure, if not to read the reports themselves, to invite Mr. Simeonov to the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov will be invited. We'll continue with the reports. It is up to the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on an Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. At its regular meeting held on 16 May 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Ms Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Ms Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers; experts from the Secretariat of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues and from the Ministry of Education and Science. The administrative monitoring report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. The report was drawn up by the Secretariat of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues on the basis of information received from both ministries with responsibility for implementing the planned measures under the priorities of the Strategy and regional administrations. The report takes into account the progress for 2017 in implementing the measures of the National Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy. It was implemented and prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and expert assessment of the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma. The reports on the implementation of municipal action plans under the adopted 28 district strategies are also presented for information. After a vote with a result of 8 votes, the National Assembly proposed not to accept the 2017 Administrative Monitoring Report on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. A report from the Committee on Health follows. Here you are, Dr. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u166	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Health on Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 At its regular meeting on 7 June 2018, the Health Committee examined the Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 "2020'), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova; Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Chairman of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, Mrs. Valeri Simeonov; and other guests. The report in question was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues. It shall inform the Members of the Commission that the report drawn up is structured into several parts. The first part includes implementation by priorities at national level, the second part is an analysis prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, for the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma, the third part presents implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 A number of measures aimed at achieving an operational objective have been implemented under Priority The measures implemented include providing medical services to the Roma population through mobile offices, conducting talks and distributing health information materials, as well as explanatory campaigns on the importance of prevention. It is also important to note the activities of health mediators who support the Roma population in the settlements, as well as medical specialists who serve this population. In her exhibition Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova pointed out that during the reporting period there was no progress towards reducing social inequalities among the Roma population. As positive changes she pointed out the extension of the scope of mandatory immunization among Roma children and the reduction of child mortality and maternal mortality. The final part of the report under consideration reported negative trends and problems from municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria as: high percentage of uninsured people among the Roma population; low health culture; lack of choice of personal physician. Some municipalities consider the need for more health mediators to work within the community to raise health awareness, while municipalities propose to revise the effectiveness of legal measures so that there is more practical effect than a penalty for living with minors, as well as subsequent births at an early age. Prof. Ivaylo Turnev, Member of the Management Board of the National Network of Health Mediators, pointed out as a positive state policy that has been going on for 11 years, the implementation of a health mediator program among the Roma population. He proposed to adopt a special regulation regulating the activities of health mediators. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012, No 802 00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u167	Thank you, Dr. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mr. Gokov, please submit this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u168	♪ I can't believe on the Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 30 May 2018 discussed and discussed the Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Ivanova, Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers (NSCEII), Mrs. Daniela Nikolova, Expert at the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, Mr. Iskren Angelov, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market and Labour Mobility at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of social partners and NGOs. The report presented Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues. The report contains the results of the achieved in 2017, as well as information on the progress of the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 The scope of competence of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy is covered by the information on the progress of the Employment Priority. The leading institution for achieving the objectives of the priority is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, whose policy is guided by the principles of non-discrimination and providing conditions for equal opportunities and equal treatment of all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnicity. It is part of the policy to combat poverty and social exclusion. The active policy for supporting the social economic integration of ethnic minorities and other vulnerable disadvantaged groups on the labour market is implemented by the Employment Agency through annual plans to support the integration of Roma people registered in the labour bureau. The report contains a report on the results of implementing measures aimed at improving Roma access to the labour market, which are one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. The problems of their employment are related to the low motivation and activity to seek work, lack or insufficient educational-qualification characteristics for occupying announced jobs, as well as lack of work habits. In order to improve the employability and qualification of the unemployed Roma registered in the Employment Bureau, for 2017 more than 27 thousand are included in various activities. persons who are more than 17 thousand, of whom motivated for active behaviour on the labour market 15 168 persons included in individual and group forms for vocational training - 9777 persons involved in training for the acquisition of professional qualifications and/or key competences - 2086 persons. There has been a trend in recent years for increasing the number of Roma employed in the primary labour market, which is an indication of a positive change in the quality of the workforce and a change in the attitudes of employers towards the representatives of the Roma community. In activities to promote entrepreneurship, start-up and management of own business, including trainings to acquire entrepreneurial skills in 2017, 118 persons were included in a planned 92. To promote social and civic dialogue in support of Roma employment in 2017 were held 389 meetings with Roma leaders and organizations on the ground at planned 150 meetings. In 2017, health mediators were 215 in 115 targeted municipalities. The introduction training for the new health mediators is carried out by increasing the number of health mediators each calendar year, with the newly appointed persons in this position being trained by a program and lecturers from the Faculty of Public Health (FAD) at the Medical University of Sofia. Within the framework of the training program, health mediators are acquainted with the legal basis and system of health services in Bulgaria, the rights and obligations of patients, as well as to receive information about basic diseases. After passing the training and passing the exam they receive a certificate from the Faculty of Public Health by acquiring a professional qualification of a health worker. Health mediators work on health programs and projects with a major focus on vulnerable Roma groups by supporting the work of regional health inspections, general practitioners and municipalities. For another consecutive year specialized labor exchanges are held to encourage the labor realization of the Roma, with 4 such exchanges held in 2017 as a result of which 211 workers of Roma origin are appointed to work. In 2017 3119 young people from the Roma community were included in different forms of training and employment under the National Plan for the Implementation of the European Youth Guarantee 2014 - 2020. The report focuses on the problems of Roma employment and shows that despite the positive trend observed for increasing the number of employees on the primary labour market, the main and sometimes the only opportunities for setting them up are seasonal jobs and employment and training programmes. Members of parliament Galia Vasileva, Georgi Gokov and Nadia Klisurska took part in the discussion. The report was supported by GERB's parliamentary group. The opinion of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is that there is no progress in Roma integration and every year the differences between Roma and other citizens of the state are deepening. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 10 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012-2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-13.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Ladies and gentlemen, you are yet to meet four more reports. This will continue our work tomorrow, and then there will be debates. That concludes the plenary sitting today. We're adjourned. Tomorrow at 9:00 is the next regular meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
