ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[Laughter, noise and lines, cheering.]] Cancel registration! New registration, colleagues. [[Laughter and noise.]] I have to admit, I was too fast. That's why I'm canceling the registration. Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, you know that today at 9:00 we have only parliamentary control, which will continue until 2:00 but will end with the end of the questions to Minister Goranov, so perhaps we will continue shortly after 14.00 the remaining ministers will stay for next week. New questions for the period 16 March 2018. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man A question was received from the MP Rumen Nikolov Georgiev to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the state policy in the field of hydromillions. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 30 March 2018. The following are the written answers from: - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, Dragomir Stoinev, Donka Simeonova, Georgi Gokov and Spas Panchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, Georgi Turnovalyski and Stefan Burgev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Boris Vangelov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jaffer; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova. Is Minister Karakachanov here because the first question is to him? We'll wait for him. The Deputy Prime Minister is already in the Assembly building and will enter the Chamber at any moment. [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov enters the plenary.]] Hello, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The first question is to Krassimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Milanov Antonov about providing funds for the construction of a monument in the town of Pleven in memory of the characters of the Doyran Epic. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of War Affairs! On 19 September 2018, 100 years of the Doyran Epic are celebrated. In it, the officers and soldiers of the Ninth Pillar Infantry Division, under the command of the legendary General Vladimir Vazov, show unimaginable heroism... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u3	Mr. Antonov, just for a minute, I'm sorry! Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall and ensure silence. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u4	... wholehearted sacrifice and brilliant command decisions, which remain an example in Bulgarian and world military history. Of course, this is not only our assessment, it is an assessment of the warring and all military experts during the years of the 20th century. After the big Doyran epic major actors were respectively the Ninth Pleven Division, and against it there were seven times bigger adversary, seven times bigger enemy, seven times more numerous and well-armed soldiers. The difference in this battle, of course, makes her the legendary general general Vladimir Vazov. In the bloody battles of 16, 17 and 18 September, the assessment, which then made General Milk the commander of the English four divisions, is that for one day only two of the divisions remain on the battlefield.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u5	To the point, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u6	I'm moving on to my question. During these years, passing over a hundred years, attempts to build a monument dedicated to the Doyran battle have continued continuously, but there is no result. In this direction there are many decisions of both the municipality and the state and a number of initiative committees, but anyway we do not have a certain solution, we do not have a solution, we do not have a monument to [[the President signals that time has run out]] gives a final solution to this question. Here comes my question: what will the state do in your face to give its contribution to the initiative taken by Pleven to build such a monument for the Doyran battle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. For a response, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Antonov, you are absolutely right. If we are a people who respect their heroes, we should have long ago built a monument of the Ninth Plamen Division.. that division, which in the First World War finally saved the honor of Bulgaria. Because the Ninth Pleven Division defeated the enemies of the Southern Front and held back the offensive of the opponents, while under the pressure of the narrowsmen and friends of the Good Field soldiers left, a breakthrough was made and if it had not been for the Ninth Pleven Division, Bulgaria would have been occupied by foreign forces. So society is obliged - not only the weeding public, but also the Bulgarian society is due to those people who literally until the last day, before the truce of September 30, 1918, fought and did not allow the invasion of mass Greek and Serbian troops in Bulgaria. From this point of view, you know that a week ago, literally last week on Friday, there was an Initiative Committee in Pleven, a municipal meeting of the Initiative Committee in Pleven, the Heroes of Doyran, on which it was proposed to build a monument of the Ninth Plenipotentiary Division and of its commander General Vazov. You know this initiative is from the early 20s. Money was collected and before the construction of the monument, after 9 September, this money was allocated and given for the construction of guerrilla and other party monuments. I can assure you that much easier and faster the construction of the monument will take place if the municipal council, literally next week, votes a decision on the proposal made by the Initiative Committee, this monument will be built in the Square of Freedom. If this is entrusted to the Initiative Committee to mark the 100th anniversary of World War I, on which the Minister of Defence, in this case, I am chairman, to allocate the necessary funds for the construction of the monument. The Ministry of Defence can specifically help, as it helps any such patriotic initiative, to provide the material - old shell casings, which, by the way, is one of the great costs of building this monument. Financial resources are available in the Initiative Committee, which are for 100 years since World War I. At this meeting, I also proposed something else. The Pleven Election Region has 9 MPs, one of whom I was elected. I proposed, as Minister of Defence, and all the Pleven MPs to donate a salary, as well as the mayor and municipal councillors in the town of Pleven. I can tell you that the project would start literally with 50% of its amount forward and with the money from the Initiative Committee, which, of course, are from the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, as soon as possible, within a maximum of a year this monument can be built and the heroes pa Pleven, those sons of Bulgaria who fought in the Ninth Pleven Division, will receive the deserved monument and, of course, the Bulgarian General Vazov, who is the only Bulgarian warlord to whom the winners 20 years after the battles in which he defeated them, drop their flag as a sign of respect for his military genius. Thank you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, thank you for your answer. Of course we have a basic task to build this monument. There's been a lot of ambition so far, but there's really no action. We also accept the idea that you have taken, it is actually our idea before the conference, and all those who have the opportunity to donate what they can. But this is about the attitude of the state and the honour of the state, not only of Pleven, not only of the Pleven municipal council, of the Pleven administration, of the Pleven MPs. In your options is the first film shooting, you have military television, you also have a resource with people who can shoot such a film accordingly in the glory of the big events of Doyran events. The other thing I have to mention is not unilaterally the place that is defined in the square of "Freedom" because there is another monument there. There was another figure there before that. So very carefully we must approach this initiative, but we also accept the initiative as a left-wing party, as a socialist party, we have a number of noble initiatives in this direction for raising funds, because we all have to make our contribution, but also the contribution that the Bulgarian Socialist Party will make in this direction will be significant, will be impressive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For the coat, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Antonov, this is not about party initiatives, but it is about a recognition of the Bulgarian nation to those heroes who saved them, again, the honor of Bulgaria, because these characters were guided by the saboteurs on the front to leave the positions, but they did not, unlike others at the Good Field, who gave their oath to the people and to the then head of state. But that's another historical topic, we won't talk about it. I don't want to get into an argument, it's not my problem where the monument should be. Once we start arguing about where the monument will be, another Bulgarian job will become. Yes, there was a monument, absolutely ideologically engaged and had nothing to do with Pleven. I said what the initiative committee's proposal was. This is the work of the municipality of Pleven, of the district governor, where they decide, where the Pleven public wants. I declare readiness, the Ministry of Defense, the Initiative Committee for 100 years of World War I to help build. Yes, of course, it is a national cause, and any Bulgarian who feels proud of the heroes of the Ninth Pleven Division can help. But, I said it at the meeting last Friday, we're weirdoes, we're chosen by these people, descendants of those who died on Macedonia's battlefields. If we don't do to this monument of our ancestors a gesture to give a salary, then, frankly, we're doing a PR action and nothing more. There's nothing in our way, nor will we be impoverished as MPs. Four ministers are related to Pleven and nine MPs. One salary at a time, I can tell you that the monument... I'm re-evaluated by the shell casings we're about to give up, the Department of Defense can do it by the end of the year. So the initiative is noble, I would ask your colleagues in the municipal council to cooperate when this proposal is tabled by the committee of directors of the Ninth Plenipotentiary Division to support it in the municipal council so that we do not waste time and in a very quick way to do something that deserves the respect of the next Bulgarian generations. Thank you, Mr. Antonov, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank Minister Karakachanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Next, a question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov. The question is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva and Georgi Gokov regarding abuse of children and children's images in advertising and videos. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy! At the beginning of this year the National Network for Children in the Republic of Bulgaria came up with a position on the occasion of an advertising video with the participation of participants from the National team of rhythmic gymnastics of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the position of the advertisement in question, it encourages children and young people to participate in gambling. In an open signal on 26 February 2018, the network, which is the unification of 150 organizations in Bulgaria, defines the video by quoting:..a serious violation of ethical and legal norms that protect children and young people from threats to their development. Perhaps we will agree with them or disprove them when we answer the question whether the advertising video motivates more young people to exercise, for example, rhythmic gymnastics, or drives them to buy tickets? It is obvious that the friction of lottery tickets has become a national sport, but the specific occasion poses an extremely important issue, and this is: how long will we put the development of children and young people in the Republic of Bulgaria at risk. Agree on what image of a successful life we are building in front of young people in the country depends on what the future of Bulgaria will be a nation of healthy and working people, or one of purchasing tickets for easy profit. The advertising video is just a reason to think about it, but there has to be a position. Therefore, the question to you is: what are the measures taken to prevent abuse of children and children's images in advertising distributed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to protect the rights and health of children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u16	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Antonov! Hat I take off for the initiative, it is worthy to join all Bulgarians in it. Besides General Kolev, the other forgotten general is General Vazov. However, I recommend that the monument of General Vazov be centrally located in Sofia, because it was one of the most successful mayors of Sofia and in Pleven to be the monument of the Ninth Pleven Infantry Division. For starters, wherever General Kolev's monument is, I personally undertake to bear the cost of 50% of the value of the monument. [[Applause from GERB, BSP for Bulgaria.]] If there are no other donors and 100%.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u17	Come to the question now, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u18	Dear Mrs. Halacheva, regarding the broadcasts in the electronic media advertising video of a lottery game featuring contestants from the Bulgarian Federation of Art Gymnastics The State Agency for Child Protection in the light of its competence has requested information from the Chairman of the Bulgarian Federation of Art Gymnastics and the organizer of the lottery game. The executive director of the company provided information that no children were involved in the filming of the video in support of which seven copies of contracts were provided to the filmed persons. Currently, the verification by the State Agency for Child Protection continues as we do not accept 100% the reliability of this information and we want the Bulgarian Federation of Art Gymnastics with a view to collecting reliable objective information and from another source to submit the relevant reference in order to take follow-up measures and actions to guarantee children's rights. All cases of children who are affected and discussed widely by the media require measures to protect children from involvement in activities that would have negative consequences for their physical, mental, moral and social development. Due to their inexperience and aspiration to imitate adults, they are a vulnerable audience, so there are internationally recognised standards for their additional protection against inappropriate or harmful media content. In this direction, the State Agency for the Protection of the Child, together with the Council for Electronic Media, has developed criteria for assessing content which is adverse or threatens to damage the physical, mental, moral or social development of children. This document refines the application of legal provisions for children by journalists and radio television operators in the country. Media service providers are obliged to respect the rights of children governed by the Child Protection Act and other regulations. According to the criteria, the same should not allow gambling to be presented as an appropriate means of acquiring money, which can lead to addiction of children and the children's audience. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 of para. 1 of the Gambling Act is regulated that direct advertising of gambling, including advertising of such games, is prohibited. I tell you what has been done in this regard. In the event of an infringement, sanctions shall be imposed by the President of the Gambling Commission. In the present case, among other things, the Council for Electronic Media and the Gambling Commission have been referred to for taking jurisdiction actions where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mrs. Halacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, thank you for the concrete measures taken about the problem, but, agree with me again, this is not about the participation or non-participation of adult children in advertising, it is about the incitement to gambling and once again the issue of abuse of children and children's images in advertising is raised, so the practice in Bulgaria is disturbing. A study by the American Academy of Pediatrics shows that on average, children watch 20,000 commercials a year. The screen has become one of the children's most important educators, but they can easily be fooled. Therefore, we adults need to care for the protection of their rights. Why we do not use good practices, such as pointing to Spain, where a professional code of advertising aimed at children has been adopted since 1993. Another problem I would like to address is the use and abuse of the image of the child in advertising. According to the Council for Electronic Media, the image of the child is exploited in the promotion of medicines, banking products, incorrect presentation of food and food products. For example, messages are given that all problems can be solved by taking a quick credit or with a magic pill. And there are good practices here, for example, in England law restricts the use of children's images in advertising since 1864. In this regard I would like to remind you that just nine months ago I put a question to you about the conclusion of an agreement between the CEM and the State Agency for Child Protection and to thank you that it was signed in 2017 because it speaks of the state's commitment to the physical, mental and moral development of children in the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope that it will also be signed in 2018 and within the legal deadline in accordance with the Law on Radio and Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Simeonov for the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u22	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Halacheva! As your question has been formulated, it is specifically related to the abuse of children's images when creating advertisements and broadcasting advertisements. So was my answer. However, if the issue is raised more generally in relation to the impact of gambling advertising on children's psyche, it is quite another issue, very serious, absolutely legitimate, in which I will take the necessary action to gather the necessary information and propose relevant changes, because I believe that at the moment in Bulgaria are constantly broadcasting gambling advertisements, in the most depraved way that affect not only children, but also mature people, suggesting that they can become rich, can be achieved success in life without work, which is very damaging and I think this is ruining the value system of the Bulgarian for maybe ten years. So, personally, in my opinion, you have to change the laws and apply them in all their strictness, because I think right now, with these constant ads rubbing tickets there, I don't know what's actually doing a gambling commercial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. The first question is from the MP Vasil Antonov about the future of the prison in Belene. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Tsacheva, in 2017, by order of the public defender of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Manolova, the national preventive mechanism for fundamental rights and freedoms of the human being, carried out a check in the prison in Belene for the domestic conditions, social activities and administrative capacity. Similar checks were carried out both in 2012, and in 2015. One of the conclusions in the report is the need to build a new bridge from the town of Belene across the Danube to the island of Persin on the territory of the prison itself. In 2014, the European Committee against Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Detention or Punishment visited the Belene prison. He recommended its closure and construction of a new prison structure with land location and, if possible, near a large urban communication centre or implementation of the programme for the complete major repair of the existing prison. The prison is one of the main employers in the municipality of Belene. The employees are about 200, most of which are residents of Belene, of the neighboring municipalities, of the Pleven region. It also employs people from Pleven District, of course. In its decision, No 20 of 7 March this year, the municipal council also expressed its categorical opinion on the preservation of the prison. In this regard, it is also my question to you: what action will you take to improve working conditions and endure punishments in Belene prison, so that you do not delete from the map of territorial units in the country of Belene as a city? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For an answer, the Minister of Justice, Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Antonov, Belene is a settlement with more than ten centuries of history, five cultural and historical layers and hardly demographic problems and the future of Belene are related only to the prison in Belene. I think your specific question is a little insulting to the weeders and the Belencans in particular. In particular, your question will not be closed, the prison in Belene will not be moved. You refer to documents from 2014, but the efforts made as a whole for the penitentiary system in Bulgaria are reported not only by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in his latest annual report, but also by our partners. In particular, from 13 to 15 March this year in Strasbourg, the Committee of Ministers in the form of the Human Rights Committee discussed the measures for implementing a number of recommendations from previous years, which you cite in the reasons of your question, and are mainly related to the group of decisions. "Neshkov "Kehayov v. Bulgaria", where a position is expressed, I quote: "For outstanding progress in the Bulgarian penitence system and successful reform in the field of residence conditions..?........................................................................................................................................................................................................ In 2017, an open-ended prison hostel was opened at the Belen prison, but there the conditions are consistent with the necessary square meters of personal area for each person deprived of liberty, the necessary sanitary conditions, which are common European criteria, and we strive to achieve them in all prisons. Particularly 4 square meters of living area per person, bathroom with bathroom in each bedroom. In the new prison dormitory there are nine bedrooms, a room for group work with prisoners, food spills and so on. It is true that in view of the picture of employment around 190 are jobs that are guaranteed by prison work and the hostel in Belene. There is a prospect of increasing these places, so calmly for you, calmly for the Belencans, will not move the prison in Belene. The recommendation is from 2014 and is of no relevance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, thank you. To a large extent, your answer is satisfactory. To ask this question, it is clear that there was a great deal of concern both in the municipality and in the area regarding the relocation of the prison. After your adamant response, we understand from this high tribune, all who monitor the process of parliamentary control that the prison in Belene will remain, all the more so that you have also read a number of measures that are to improve the working conditions, as well as to serve, and to endure the punishments in Belene. However, we must pay serious attention to the prison. We should not periodically ask ourselves only the issues that are to be addressed both in terms of administrative capacity and in terms of improving working conditions and in terms of improving the conditions for suffering penalties. The heavy problem at the moment is the pontoon bridge, which largely brought about this issue. Here, to a large extent, the support of the Construction Ministry is also needed and, accordingly, to a large extent, of the military minister Mr. Karakachanov, who we had a chance to see just now. In this direction, rapid action must, of course, be taken. With regard to demographics, you are also asking a very important question. Belene prison is not a solution to demographics, but it is a small part of the unresolved endless issues that Belene, Pleven and Pleven district have. I do not need to remind you, but the 2012 and 2013 decisions, including in the National Assembly and you as President, were in the direction of deletion of the Nuclear Power Plant. Thank God we're going the other way now. Thank you, however, for calming down from this tribune of Belencans, Pleven and Pleven District.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u30	Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In no case are the tasks relating to the necessary reform relating to the penitentiary system, in general, in places of imprisonment cannot be Campaign. It's my ambition as a minister in charge of these policies. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr. Borisov, who shares the need not only to allocate funds to improve the conditions under which prisoners suffer penalties for which we can use and use a number of funds under the Norwegian mechanism, under other operational programmes, but also for the parallel, parallel improvement of the conditions of those working in this environment, a policy that is always linked to domestic remuneration, is linked to national resources and funds. We have the Prime Minister's support, I declare it responsibly. Syndicate dialogue is extremely advanced, and much of their demands are met. We are trying and in parallel, I have always put the two main questions at the same time: improving the conditions for prisoners and improving the working conditions of people responsible for maintaining order in these establishments. Just two sentences about the pontoon bridge. Indeed, the connection between the town of Belene is made by a pontoon bridge. The island is exclusive government property. It is about funds to be committed by both the state and the municipalities, working on this issue. You yourself realize that it is not easy and could not be decided within the deadlines that I can commit to today. It must be done and the regional minister has requested from the Minister of Environment and Water an impact assessment on how it will affect the special regime used by the island itself as a protected area for animal and plant species, so this issue is also on the attention of the government of Prime Minister Borisov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question to Minister Tsacheva is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the location and development of probation measures in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! My question concerns the punishment of trial, the system of probation measures and probation services. For more than 10 years since the introduction of the punishment, the system undoubtedly has its upward development. Probation services were secured with a material base, all probation workers were trained, developed, established and implemented programmes for individual and group work with offenders by types of offences. In general, during this period the probation office of Bulgaria established itself as an institution and took its professional place in the system of execution of penalties. But so much for the good stuff. In recent years, some disturbing trends have also been a fact. For four years there has been a permanent reduction in the application of the punishment.Probation, and this trend is deepening. The feeling of limiting the scope of the probation measures is created, contrary to the development noted throughout Europe, precisely of the criminal measures applied outside prison. These trends have an impact on the Bulgarian system of penalties, their consistency and relative weight, which in its own way puts on the agenda the issue of the place of probation measures and brings to the fore many issues, some of which are: what is the reason for the permanent reduction of the application of probation? What policy will you follow to develop probation in the country? Is there any conviction in the Ministry of Justice that the punishment of probation, such as a set of measures for control and impact on the convicted person outside prison, achieves the objectives of criminal policy and for a number of offences, affects more effectively than other penalties? Given the tendency to reduce the imposition of probation measures, what is your view of the future of probation services and their employees? This is a question that interests not only the employees in the probation system, but also the entire Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, in fact your question contains four questions, I will answer each one of them specifically. The number of persons undergoing probation depends on the sentences given and the number of sentences depends on the wording of the Penal Code for which this kind of punishment is envisaged. I agree with you that in the last few years there has been a certain reduction in the number of probation penalties imposed, but it is mainly related to changes in the transport crimes With regard to road safety and the many car accidents that are also crimes, the legislator has provided for stricter sanctions. In most cases, there is a conditional conviction, where the point is that the penalty imposed in advance is also sustained upon re-exercise. Again, I say that there should be a link between the legislator and the texts in the Penal Code, the degree of public danger to certain types of crime, but we all agree anyway. And on yesterday, the measures taken in relation to the pedestrian paths are unbearable, the accidents that occur on the Bulgarian roads. I believe that I have responded to you as to what is due to the permanent reduction. What policy are you going to follow for the development of probation in the country?Successful for this punishment is that it does not isolate the condemned by society. This enables fewer funds that the state will then allocate for the re-socialisation of the person convicted. The quest to search for new ways to curb disorder. In 2018, electronic surveillance is introduced in order to contribute to rehabilitation, to reduce recurrence, to ensure the protection of society. I have repeatedly answered questions from Members of the National Assembly regarding the so-called Graves. It's a public procurement. A contract has been signed. We will also use these modern tools to make sure that the person is not deviant. I guess I'll answer the other two questions in the form of a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u35	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u36	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although we will finish it in the back. I am aware that for the time set out in our Rules for asking a question by the Member of the National Assembly two minutes, and for the Minister's response to three minutes, plus two minutes, is not seriously short when it comes to serious and fundamental questions about the justice system for the execution of penalties such as probation, so I ask you, if you have prepared written material on this subject, if you can provide it to me. As for your specific answers, I find logic in them, but it is not important for me to be satisfied with them, but first of all to be satisfied with people working in probation services and the whole society. Since probation had no tradition in our country, it was necessary to explain and defend probation. This process of imposing probation as a kind of punishment has been carried out and carried out for the most part of these same probation workers. Today, when the Probation Service of Bulgaria has established itself as an institution for the execution of penalties and has taken its professional place in criminal enforcement law and when in society there is no doubt about the correctness, usefulness and prospects of probation as an alternative to imprisonment, and when there is a significant development in the application of sanctions and measures outside imprisonment throughout Europe, in Bulgaria it seems that their scope of application is not eligible to be narrowed down. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask you to assign your team of experts to include those from the probation services, to examine and analyse probation, to draw conclusions and to come up with suggestions on how to reverse the trend, because it reflects on the entire system of execution of penalties. Punishment of imprisonment and his alternative probation are linked to the principle of docked vessels, i.e. reducing the penalty for probation directly affects the places of imprisonment and leads to an increase in their overcrowding. If you will, this team will come up with proposals for changes in legislation, in the regulatory framework that will lead, on the one hand, to a more effective impact on offenders, and on the other hand, to ensure the development and full implementation of probation services. Thank you for what you will then answer and please, if you have more information, provide it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in. I can spare one more minute because the subject is really important. You were extremely strict in your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mr. Gokov, for commenting on the questions on which I did not answer you, but you had a ready, prepared reply on them. So now I will have the opportunity to thank you for your comments and to answer your questions. Your third question: Is there any conviction in your ministry that the punishment probation as a set of control and impact measures without imprisonment achieves the objectives of criminal policy? In this position are also the policies regarding the penitentiary system and its development. As of the moment of its introduction, probation as a means of penal policy marks a rise as a measure, because it is a relatively new punishment, but we aim to meet the European criteria in the policies that are followed in the European Union and mainly in the Council of Europe, in the Committee of Ministers on these policies. And the fourth question: Given the tendency to reduce the imposition of probation measures, what is your view of the future of probation services and employees in them? At any time, however, when it is taken into account that it is good to use this kind of punishment in order to make sure that the person is not completely excluded from social life, that is to say that policies and means for his resocialization will not be imposed afterwards, we must be very careful, because any change in the Penal Code, any change in piece, leads to an imbalance of the entire system. Therefore, a very careful assessment of the types of penalties must be made of probation, and we cannot be guided only by the need for these penalties to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u39	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Tsacheva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MPs Dragomir Stoynev, Ivan Ivanov and Milko Nedyalkov concerning violations in the implementation of the activities of the Head of the Regional Administration of Teteven. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u40	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! This question is asked to you on the basis of what we have received, as MPs, information regarding the activities of the Head of the Regional Administration, Teteven, concerning various violations of both professional ethics and the normal work of the Regional Administration. In this regard, can you answer: have you received such data, has the head of the respective district management been checked, and if you have detected any violations in such an inspection, tell us what they are contained in, and what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, for an answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, gentlemen Ivanov, Stoynev, Nedyalkov! In connection with reports of violations in the performance of the Head of Regional Management, I will inform you of the following. By virtue of art. 119, para. 1 of the Administrative Code shall be issued to the authorities directly directing and controlling the authorities and officials whose unlawful or inappropriate actions and omissions are reported. In accordance with art. 43, para. 3, p. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act and art. 18, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry, the Director of the Regional Directorate, is the authority which implements the general and immediate management, which organizes, is responsible for the activities of the Regional Directorate. The checks carried out, motivated and issued by a competent authority under the Administrative Procedure Code and under the Internal Rules for Working in the Ministry of Interior, with the proposals and signals, show that the statements made should be considered unfounded, excluding the signal which was the subject of a previous parliamentary question and the signal was and contained evidence of unlawful use of physical force when placing aids, handcuffs by officers of the District Government. A commission has been appointed by order of the Director of the Directorate-General for National Police. A check has been done. The data from the alert were considered to be partially justified in their part relating to the applicant's detention. A check was also carried out by order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Lovech. The same examination ended with a proposal for disciplinary proceedings for a disciplinary infringement against three employees of the Regional Administration A number of further inspections by appointed committees are under way, which are to be summarized and analyzed by the results of the nine, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u44	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like, in the form of a reply, to say that there are indeed some significant problems in the work of the Regional Police Department in Teteven. They are reflected in some mass media. I would like, Mr. Minister, to read to you and something that is in the very report of the District Department for the past year............................................................................................................................................................................... between the various between the various between the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the................................................... For example, it is written that in 2017 there were no reported robberies. During the reporting period 2017 there are no registered home burglaries. This is in the report of the Head of the Regional Branch.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. During the period there are no booklifting registered. This is recorded in the report. Fine, but in the report of the unit that is working on the technical part of these crimes, it is recorded: Of them: crimes against the person "six," burglary "18," before it was one, ordinary larceny "24" -- before that in the report of the chief himself -- not one. It follows from this that there is a serious dissonance in the reporting of activity in this regional government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u45	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, there must be such discrepancies after you have seen them. By the way, the analyses are currently under way in all the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and I was present there and in Pleven I was, and in Lovech I was. The pity is that the question is literally a moment after that and I didn't know about it, I was going to ask exactly what it was about, but whatever. If you put it like that and you've seen numbers that don't match, I'll check it again and I'll pay attention. Just to add to what you asked me a little while ago, and in your question there is, I have a reference, but there is no time, and now I just see it. There's another one, two, three, four, five, six signals for there again for the District Department's work. For some of them there are no data, for others there are data. For two of them, the checks continue. Thank you for what you do and focus your attention. You must be from this area, too. I will further check the work, and especially the district management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev on Graphics. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u48	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A signal was sent to me by citizens containing data on unprofessional and incorrect performance of graphical expertise. The problem is very disturbing, given the importance of these expert opinions in the course of criminal proceedings and cases. The specific case was prepared and presented in a district investigation case at the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra, graphical expertise for Protocol No 130, for the purposes of pre-trial proceedings No 41 of 2013. It is apparent from the document that the text presented is from another expertise, not even changing the name to that in the current case. The same employee turns these infringements into practice and the case is repeated in 2017 by passing on to the Regional Court the handwriting expertise of Protocol No 60 in relation to criminal proceedings of general character No 333 of 2016. Here, apart from the fact that no name has been changed from the copy of the report, the period for carrying out the examination of the case itself has not been changed. My question to you is: Have the Ministry of Interior checks been carried out, including internal security, on specific signals regarding the experts described above and the persons prepared them, and what are the results? How many experts from the Ministry of Interior staff have been drawn up in this way and used in pre-trial proceedings and criminal cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, on the allegations concerning the preparation of handwriting expertise for the protocol, which you have announced on 25 November 2013, in case No 41/2013, according to the description of the District Investigation Department of the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra, from 2013 until now a number of inquiries have been carried out, including by the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Interior in 2016. Following the completion of the verification, the materials of the case, together with the documents produced by the Department of Home Affairs, have been sent to the District Prosecutor's Office, Silistra, to decide on jurisdiction. By Decree of 28 February 2017, the Prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office "Silistra" reported that in relation to alerts with the same content in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Silistra," checks have been carried out which have identified their unfoundedness. It is also noted that the file of 2014 concerning falsely prepared expertise by an employee of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate of Silistra was sent to the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra, from which a decree of 23 July 2014 refused the formation of criminal proceedings. In the so established factual situation, the Prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra concluded that there were no unlawful actions by the employees of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate of Silistra in the execution of their assigned actions by the Prosecutor's Office and because of the lack of evidence of a criminal offence ordered refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings in the case. On the allegations concerning the preparation of handwriting expertise for Protocol No 60 of 2017, we are talking about something else. Didn't you ask if there were any more criminal cases of general character No 333 from 2016 on the description of the District Court? A signal with the same allegations has been made to the Prosecutor General and to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and has been sent under the jurisdiction of the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra, which entrusts the inspection of the Department of Internal Security to the Ministry of Interior. After getting acquainted with the materials of the inspection of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office of Silistra, delivered a decree of 3 November 2017. It states that the allegations in the alert concern technical errors, one of which has been removed in a timely manner and does not alter the final conclusion of the assessment. In this regard and in the light of the circumstances that the file does not contain any evidence from which it can reasonably be assumed that the crime committed is of a general nature, the prosecutor shall refuse to initiate pre-trial proceedings in the case. The technical errors made in both experts have not affected the course of criminal proceedings. The experts have been drawn up by observing all stages of the handwriting study, according to the established methodology for this type of expertise. Picture material is attached in Section "Instructions". There are no technical errors. The expert conclusion shall be subject to control by both the prosecution in the course of pre-trial proceedings and by the court in the next procedural phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u52	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister, I don't know if you've seen the case I'm talking about is about the two checks we're discussing right now. Mistakes or violations are prominent and are a fact that casts a shadow on the experts themselves. As you yourself know, such expertises produced by the relevant specialists do not require special knowledge and skills in this case. None of these have been applied since we are here witnessing a classic rewriting. However, this way of drawing up graphical expertise affects the outcome of criminal proceedings and criminal cases. If it had happened once, let's say it was a technical error, which was then removed, but here we see a relapse, as this type of violations are repeated. I'm worried myself. I hope that the checks you have carried out have indeed been carried out in depth, and if you think these circumstances can be verified, as I say again, this type of expertise has an impact on the outcome of the cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I didn't have time to do another check before I told you some things in common. By my order of 1 March 2018, I have commissioned a commission of employees of the "Inspectorat" Department, the "National Police Directorate" and the Research Institute of Criminal Studies to carry out a check on the reported data in the signal from a resident of the town of Silistra and a resident of Dulovo. There is such a signal of unlawful action by an employee in the sector, a research-based laboratory............................................................ of the Ministry of Interior...................................................................................................................................................................................... In the alert, persons present the already verified allegations of misconduct of employees, expressing themselves in bad faith, formal and trendy drawing of handwriting expertise from the protocol with which we started the conversation with you, and you quote No 130 of 2013, which the prosecution has pronounced repeatedly that there are no violations. In this triple handwriting expertise in Protocol No 62 of 2017, the deadline for carrying out the verification and preparation of the report expires on 30 March 2018. In a few days I will know the results. I hope they don't want an extension. I agree with you as I have been an expert as well for a long time. It is very important and they really tilt without, of course, the court being obliged to accept the physical evidence of such and may not comply with them. This is where you saw what the D.A. said. I agree with you that these people, these employees, do their work well and conscientiously. I have other signals about such ones not only in Silistra. Yesterday morning, I think it was, I called the director of the Institute of Forensics. I warned her, asked her to objectify their data when dealing with handwriting expertise, because there were such signals only recently from last week, with me, to be careful and to be as objective as possible. This is a difficult expertise, made by experts counted on my two hands or perhaps more, but they should be prepared. It guarantees me that those who work on behalf of the Institute have no problems with them, there are problems with colleagues who are in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and they are not part of the Institute. There are preparations, but some are not prepared. I hope their actions are due to this, not intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u55	Thank you, Minister Radev. Next, a question by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 98 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I have submitted a question regarding the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior. For the implementation of policies on prevention, countering crime, protection of public order, protection of national security, protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, border control, regulation of migration processes and fire safety and protection of the population, the Ministry of Interior shall carry out the following basic activities: operational and searchable, security, investigation of crimes, fire safety and fire protection, disasters and emergencies, ensuring access to the emergency services through the National Emergency System with a single European number 112, information, control, preventive and administrative criminal and provision of administrative services. For the implementation of all these activities, the individual units - as they are under the Ministry of Interior Act - perform synchronized, interacting with each other, basic activities and carrying out tasks before the Ministry of Interior and placed by the Political Office, and by you as Head of the Ministry. What is your personnel policy at the Ministry of Interior with regard to the completion of all functional units, the motivation of employees and their career growth, as this provision and motivation of employees in the system of the Ministry of Interior is also extremely important in carrying out the tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A response from Minister Radev is next within five minutes. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the management work on the completion of the functional units of the Ministry of Interior is a balanced process in which many factors are combined. It has to be this way. For the purpose of greater efficiency and long-term management horizon in the Ministry of Interior has been established, exists and operates such a commission, according to art. 106a of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior. Its composition includes officials from the political and professional management of the Ministry of Interior with functional competence to assist the Minister of Interior in matters relating to the state and personnel provision of structures. The Commission's decisions take into account the current priorities and tasks of the Ministry and the capacity of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior for professional training. Cadre policy on career growth and the internal motivation of civil servants is also related to some of the latest legislative changes. This is actually restored, as well as the mandatory passage of the relevant professional training at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior after winning the competition. The basic principles on which the professional development of employees as part of the personnel development system is based are as follows: transparency; the application of clear and accurate assessment criteria; procedural rules for recruitment, professional development and including termination of service. Secondly, publicity, the announcement of procedures and mechanisms for selection and career development; objectivity by taking into account personal qualities; competence; qualification and experience and results of the work of staff and staff. Third, equal opportunities for every career development employee. Next, the implementation of motivational mechanisms for professional development. Next, a competitive start by ensuring objectivity in taking into account professional qualities, experience and qualifications. Next, a prohibition of discrimination. Eighth place, planning and managing the selection and development of the career. A large-scale analysis is under way, as you know, which aims to improve the management model of the Ministry of Interior, Activities and Structures. We are probably preparing the biggest changes in the Ministry of Interior so far slowly and methodically. As a result, I expect both structural and management problems to be identified. It is a type of professional management monitoring over the system. The results of the analysis will result in internal structural changes aimed at improving the overall coordination and increasing the effectiveness of the management and operation of the Ministry. The main focus will definitely be to increase internal motivation among employees. One reason for producing such a structurally functional model is that in the last seven years the state number of the Ministry's employees has changed repeatedly, more than 13 times. The changes were provoked by various reasons depending on further assigned and dropped-out activities of the Ministry, with a view to changes in legislation too. The most important question to be answered is the allocation of functions and the number of employees who have responded fully to the management objectives that we set ourselves. We aim to improve the regulatory base and to increase capacity as recorded in the Government's Management Programme 2017 - 2021, twice from 1000 to 2000 people, and the training of investigative police officers from 2000 to 6000. On the agenda before the Academy of the Ministry of Interior is the task not only to train but to train what is necessary for the structures of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, in the performance of their missions and responsibilities. We need to take into account the huge steps the Ministry has made in the last few months, namely the gradual and appropriate spending of uniform funds, annual bonuses, as foreseen by March 1st this year, the increase in wages within 15th " 20%." It is also envisaged that we will actively work in this direction. The salaries of the employees in the system of the Ministry of Interior will be increased gradually or systematically every year. As promised - next year by 10%, that is, it is not important now how much we will increase them, and it is something that will happen all the time and not eat wages from inflation. We absolutely and unconditionally carry out the goals and tasks set by the government for at least 1000 newly appointed police officers until the New Year. We did that, too. This circle of things that have been fulfilled is all about increasing the motivation of the employees and I think this is being taken into account by both them and the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u59	Thank you, Minister Radev. Please come in for further questions, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, regarding the following and the possibility to answer two supplementary questions, I note to you that my specific question is: a policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding the completion of the functional units. In the answer I did not hear, and that is why in supplementary questions I ask you: what is the failure in the Ministry of Interior if you can tell the individual functional units as Directorates? What are you going to do and do right now for the motivation of the employees at the Ministry of Interior? I do not accept the answer that you are waiting for a structurally functional model to be drawn up and then take action. In order to assign such a model to be drawn up, you have identified shortcomings in the system that you are in charge of. What are these main shortcomings of the Ministry of Interior that you have identified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. You are welcome to answer the supplementary questions, Dear Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u62	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, the assembly of yes, the Ministry of Interior of State is 49 838. Nearly 4,500 are inconclusive, despite those appointments we're making right now. It's a non-completion in the entire Ministry. You can place it almost evenly in all structures. There are some structures somewhere with a larger set, for example, in the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. It's harder to find footage there, you know, maybe you're familiar with it, I guess because you're the least member of the Commission, we're trying to get them out of the system for objective reasons. We're constantly announcing competitions to catch up on this setup. Of course, I've said it many times, and personnel experts know that there must be an uncompletion that is healing, and there must always be some competition. How much does it have to be, if we have to get to 2,000 less than that 50,000 or 1,000, and this is how it works, there are always some who leave, some who enter the system. The problem with the Ministry of Interior is that it is a very specific activity and when we hire people, they must pass this training for six months. Before that, it was nine months before they entered, and then a year or two to become police officers, as our colleagues in the system say. The motivation of the employees does not accept the answer, but I do not expect you to accept it. I hope he gets accepted by the employees and they take it well. These are my impressions of what I'm doing right now. I am going to Blagoevgrad today, I hear from the employees what they accept and what they do not accept. They very well accept what the current leadership does. They well know that everything that has been done in a piece before, for various reasons, including objective, now we are doing it methodically, slowly with the award of this procurement that we have talked about here, and you have asked me questions or your colleagues until this structural functional model becomes. We already have a draft, we know what to do, what functions are duplicated, what are the flaws in the system, but we want to make the overall model. My hope is that by mid-summer this will happen. Then you will hear about these changes that I mentioned and they will be essential. People know what motivates them. They want a few simple things. And I've said it many times, until we found these reasons, to call them that in general, not to use the other word the unions used. Why we had to raise wages is clear, that we did this once - 55 million this year, 470 at the end of the year, then another 100 million - we raised wages. I just said: it is more important to always have an increase, every year, people to work and know that inflation does not eat their wages, even a little there is an increase because of the risk work they are doing, including those numbers that I have said them I'm just making a comparison between the two systems. So these people are at risk every day and they get paid so much higher and everything else they get. We immediately solved the matter, and a number of other things that happened to them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And the most important thing that I'm finishing with is that they put this question, and we're working on it - career development. Every single one of them knowing, entering the system or who is inside, will have career development to Secretary General if we talk about professional leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u63	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Iankov, you have the opportunity to express your attitude towards Minister Radev's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, a 10 per cent non-completion and for you it's normal?! You lied again from the parliamentary tribune regarding the newly appointed. I quote your reply, written by me on 20 February 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, repair and Of these, civil servants interns suppose 577, nearly 600. Do not explain that these interns fully meet the requirements that apply to the employees of the system with experience. And at the same time, for 2017, there are 2082 out of the 2100, i.e. to consider it from the 2800 employed, by subtracting 2100 out of them 600 interns, continue to explain that you have fulfilled the commitment with 1000 new recruits. Keep explaining it! At the same time, with a service in the Ministry of Interior up to five years old, there were 728 left last year, and this is a third. That should bother you. Those who are interns over 15 years are 850. Subject to analysis and you have to answer why are prepared employees of the Ministry of Interior leaving? Why are they leaving and newly appointed, provided that they are trained and ready to be part of this career development, which you believe employees approve. Otherwise, in terms of motivation, surely as Minister of the Interior, as head, you hear what you want to hear. But I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u65	The weather, Mr. Yankoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u66	...the big problem at the Ministry of Interior is the attitude.. Yours and the political leadership, the employees, the work of these employees and the misunderstanding of the importance of this profession at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. There is a question from the National Representative Michael Hristov concerning the period of validity of driving licences for persons with permanent disabilities. Here you are, dear Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I repeat for the hundredth time: one of the most discriminated against groups in Bulgarian society are the people with disabilities. The example of driver's licenses is significant. If one of you goes to get a driving licence, it will be for 10 years, but if a person with a disability, including himself, goes, my driving licence will be for five years. As we know and as it is written in the Constitution, discrimination is any action based on social status, gender and so on. My question to the honourable Minister is: will this discrimination be dealt with within a normal time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, according to art. 12, t. 3 of Regulation I 157 of 1 October 2002 on the conditions and procedures for issuing a driving licence for motor vehicles, the driver's report and their discipline, the period for validity of the driving licence for persons with permanent disabilities is, as you said, five years. However, the time limits are determined by the transport district medical committees.. TOLK, with only the difference from the other committee, or by the Transport central medical expert commission, and it is possible that the period of validity is less than even five years. I'm sure you know that, too. A whole new Road Traffic Act is about to be reviewed, you must know the old one is divided into three. The projects are: Law on Road Vehicles the second, and the third Law on Motor Vehicle Drivers. In the course of the discussions, I was thinking while listening to you, and we can make such an initiative, but somehow we lack capacity. These medical committees, you see, that's where everything comes from, they have some reason to do this. If you have an initiative, you should also do it. We are about to review them for public discussion and include them in these amendments to the Law. If you have any reason, you probably have one, but we can do nothing but do what each other has done and they are called doctors in those committees that I have told you. This is my brief answer, trying to get into your questions, which must have grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u72	First of all, thank you, Minister for understanding. There's really a problem, because I get daily calls from people who can't explain, purely logically, why you get such a gap and it's within 10 years. We are not even talking about money here, as people with disabilities are exempt from any fees when using the driver's license, when issuing, when reissueing. So the problem is actually that this is a Regulation and it cannot be changed by the MPs, and such an initiative should come from you. Soon there will be protests of disabled people on April 11th and 18th. I suppose, as a huge gesture to all disabled people who manage motor vehicles, the initiative to come from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Christov, well, I understand that too. I was wondering if I should answer that, but I agree that we should take the initiative. The regulation is really, I started with her, to address these medical teams or to whom they need to give us an idea if they can change anything. And I remember one more thing, it might have been done, and I'm going to ask them once again to check on the situation in neighbouring countries. Let me say this: we have people with disabilities, they have other countries, let's see if it's five years or if it's more. Because I'm thinking that every five years, yes, without fees is, as you say, but one trip there to change, despite the e-government, which we are trying to massively enter and reduce administrative causes, expenditures, not in cash, I mean, moving is even difficult. I'll try to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u75	Thank you, Minister Radev. There is a question from the MP Stoyan Mirchev about visiting the authorities of the order at home addresses. Here you are, dear Mr. Mirchev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u76	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I will only open a clamp on my previous question of handwriting expertise, since you said that even now there is a check going on, I would ask you if you could inform me in writing after the end of this check what the results are. Now I'm going to bother you, at first glance, with a more biological problem, but in its essence, there are basic discrepancies with what people expect. During the regular receptions in my electoral district, it is still a matter of Silistra district, I was informed by a number of citizens that various administrative acts establishing an infringement or imposing penalties, such as an outstanding international passport, are served at the late hours of the day or on holidays. Citizens do not complain about the fact of the administrative fine itself and their objections are not against the fine itself. These are people who are honest, good citizens who have accepted that they have committed some kind of violation or non-compliance with the laws and want to pay the corresponding fine. Their legitimate problem comes from worrying the police to ring the doorbell in serious late hours, as well as from the anxiety created and tested by the neighbors of those persons to whom the relevant act is actually served. My question to you is: is it a practice for administrative penal acts to be served in this way by the staff of the Ministry of Interior and if it is a practice what imposes it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, the actions taken by the Ministry of Interior regarding the service of subpoenas, messages and papers are related to the powers granted to the police authorities, as described in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Administrative Violations, the Act on the Ministry of Interior and others, if there are documents, but these are the main ones. In accordance with art. 84 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, in relation to Art. 180 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, subpoenas, messages and papers shall be served in person against a receipt signed by the person to whom they are intended, or by an adult family member, you know. If they're not there, there's a house manager, a roommate, a neighbor who can take on these obligations for signatures to be handed over. The Law on Administrative Violations and Punishment and the PPC does not provide for any specific rules, or rules at all, which prove on which day work, rest, festive, at what time the subpoena, the message or the papers should be served. For the most part in working hours, citizens or the adult family member or manager and neighbors shall be located at the address indicated in the document. On the other hand, however, the manager, the roommate or the neighbor very often does not undertake to hand them over to the person for whom they are intended and refuses to receive them. I inform you that there is no practice required in the Ministry of Interior for the service you are concerned about, for various administrative acts to be carried out at late hours of the day or on holidays. The visits made by the authorities in the order of the home addresses at service of various administrative acts on different days shall be at different times, including at late hours of the day or on holidays and holidays, including. They aim to ensure that the intruder is entitled to know for what he is being punished and to be given the opportunity to appeal this is also very important if he considers the same to be unlawful, as well as to comply with the requirements of the Law, the penal decrees issued to enter into force. That is why we are so persistent and trying to do it, including as you have noticed, there are complaints at the late hours of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u80	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll give you one of the examples: a retired mathematics teacher, who on one part of his day is home for most of the day, but not even experience has been made by the employees of the Ministry of Interior in this part of the day to award the relevant act, which is for 30 BGN. The guy called him on the phone, said he was gonna go pay for it, and yet in the late hours of Christmas Eve, the police called him, and it didn't ring his doorbell, it called his neighbors. In the very entrance, there is a confusion about what is going on. These are elderly people and this type of stress can have negative consequences for them. You said there were no rules. Perhaps we should also consider creating some type of rules, since we are not talking about criminals here, we are talking about very minor violations that people do not refuse to pay. You say there is no practice, but this example I set is not the only one for Silistra. Apparently in the Regional Directorate this is an established practice, perhaps also for the convenience of law enforcement officers themselves, I have no idea, but this somehow casts a shadow on the trust of law enforcement officers. Because in the late hours, you know, when there are more crimes, they instead of being on the street, walk and stress the city's citizens that way. My personal request is, I pay attention to this practice, if it can be stopped and some more human way to have relations between law enforcement and citizens, to save ourselves this form of stress on them. And since I just heard it from you that because there are no rules made, perhaps to consider creating rules to solve this problem, because I guess it's not just practice in the Silistren area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u81	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here's your coat, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, yes, there are no rules, I stressed it. You're also saying maybe there should be rules. I just want to inform you that there are complaints from our employees that they have become subpoenas. A lot of their working hours, by the way, goes just for that. Along with that, I see a reverse trend. People want the police everywhere. Mr. Iankov and I were arguing about this earlier, about these 1,000 people being appointed. Everyone wants to have the police next to them, and I'm a little surprised they're worried. Yeah, in the late hours, when I go to Silistra, I'll check it out myself, the civilians wear uniforms, at least that respects it. Not that there aren't any who can't do it and change, but when they see the police, they shouldn't be stressed out. This love is obvious, since older people continue especially to pay money to cheaters, phones mean. But I, taking what you say seriously, certainly yes, at night, in the late hours, mean not five-six, but perhaps later, when they manage to pass a few addresses and the last happened at nine o'clock, almost not later. Yeah, it's not very decent to do that, I'll pay attention to my colleagues in Silistra, that's where this analysis went. However, there is a line in the chain to pay attention, lest there be something there and start explaining to me due to lack of enough footage and so on. We'll pay attention to that. But to tell you that yes, from the check you will get the results and if you can take here my colleague Iankov did not see it, I and him promised him and here is the answer to a question he asked me. [[Passing a folder to the MP Stoyan Mirchev.]] Before that, I promised him I'd have an answer if you could give it to him. In the same way, I will give you an answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev about the measures taken to prevent crime on the territory of the resort complex "Sunny Beach" and the Black Sea municipalities. Here you are, dear Mr. Baychev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Radev, the Crime Prevention Strategy is part of the strategic management system of the state and is an essential element of the planning of state activities in the Security and Public Order Sector. The strategy is aimed at limiting conventional crime, taking into account its relationship and interaction with organised crime, corruption, economic crime, road accidents and national security. It is a complex of measures aimed at establishing, limiting and eliminating criminogenic and victimogenic factors that are carried out by the central public authority, district managers, local authorities. One of the priorities of the government in the field of internal order and security is improving crime prevention in order to increase citizens' confidence in law enforcement institutions, mutual cooperation, as well as promoting socio-economic development in creating a secure and predictable business environment. Mr. Minister, I will quote you for a moment regarding the coefficient of criminogenic environment, which for Burgas is 17.9 and as it turns out is the highest in the country, including higher than a city like Sofia, which is several times bigger. According to the current legislation and the Security Strategy, the Ministry of Interior is right and can implement measures to prevent crime. We all remember the ugly scenes that took place in front of Bulgarian and foreign tourists one summer ago. The question is, will the Ministry of Interior allow them to repeat themselves this tourist season? I realize that it is very difficult to predict the criminogenic situation in advance several months earlier, but at the same time we have to take into account that there is one persistence in the implementation of certain types of crimes and the aim is to minimise them to a sanitary minimum. In this regard is also the concern of society and, in particular, of this part of it, which has and is developing some kind of business related to tourism and the sea. Therefore, I would like to ask you the following question: is there any measures taken to prevent crime in the territory of the resort complex "Sunny Beach" and the Black Sea municipalities?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u87	Following a response from the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, the annual preparation of the tourist season starts in April, based on an analysis of the operational situation and the working organisation is developed Plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior in public order protection, countering crime and ensuring fire safety including in resort complexes and tourist areas during the summer and winter tourist seasons. In this case, we're talking about the summer one. During each summer season for the protection of public order and the fight against crime, additional police forces are seconded to the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, whose territories are resort complexes and tourist areas, joint police patrols are formed with employees from other European countries including Romania, Czech Republic, Poland, this is what we do. The practice of co-operation with foreign police officers has been established, the quality of police services in resort complexes has improved. The joint work helps to overcome the language barrier and has a positive effect on foreign tourists. For the upcoming summer tourist season in the resort of Sunny Beach, for which you are interested, served by the District Department of Nessebar, at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Burgas, the places with the greatest concentration of crime will be secured with an enhanced presence of uniformed and civilian police officers. In support of the District Department, 480 police officers will be posted under this plan with security, operational, search and investigation functions, including for the period from 1 June to 20 September 2018. On average, 120 employees per month. It is planned and is posted to Romanian, Polish and Czech police officers in July and August to carry out this joint patrol and posting activities, as well as orders with service dogs, bikes, motto and foot patrols. The activities of police officers from Nessebar District will also be supported by car patrols, if necessary by the Department of Gendarmerie. Each year before the start of the tourist season, a preliminary organization for the protection of the life, health and property of the guests of the tourist complexes and sites is established by the authorities of the Ministry. During the whole summer season additional preventive, security and operational search events are implemented in accordance with the dynamics of the operational situation. The district directorates Burgas, Varna and Dobrich, whose territories are situated seaside resorts, provide measures for coordination and interaction with local authorities and representatives of private security companies, as well as representatives of branch organizations and hotel managers, including tour operators. With the help of the Black Sea municipalities in key places of resort complexes are built systems for video surveillance. Regularly throughout the summer season in tourist sites and complexes will be carried out joint police operations with the territorial structures of the NRA, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Consumer Protection Commission, the Customs Agency, the Ministry of Tourism, Health and others. The creation of interdepartmental coordination centres in Varna and Burgas, you must know about them, has been established as an effective form of interaction between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the NRA. The centers for the interaction of these structures during the months of July and August conduct joint inspections of drinking facilities, amusement clubs, commercial sites located in Burgas, Varna and Dobrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Radev, I see that you have targeted measures, analysis, action plan and so on, which is a good thing in this case that however, at least the minimum necessary measures you take them. However, I will allow myself to give you some tips I have taken from Ibiza and Cyprus. In addition to all that you have listed, this is undeniable. It exists there, too. There is also something else there necessarily lights up all the beaches at night, as part of the insurmountable acts are carried out on the beach itself. This first, by the way, in our concession contracts for the beaches also includes this point for the lighting of the beach, so you could require these things. As far as video surveillance is concerned, there is everywhere, if possible I would also recommend that the video surveillance be covered with us absolutely everywhere. The other thing that is being done is the so-called "respective" stocks that demonstrate the strength and presence of the state in the resort, in order to prevent and act comfortingly on holidayers to see that they are still protected. The other thing that is also interesting I do not know if it is foreseen, you did not mention it. The work with civilian policemen and their patrolling and naturally the work with the agent and its implementation among the crimiconstructing agent in order to obtain preliminary information and not to run after the events. Thank you, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u91	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you are for the duplicate, Mr. Minister. Is it possible to include other people's experience?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, speaking of international experience, I will only mention that at the end of last year a meeting between the managements of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Tourism and the diplomatic representatives of the countries for which Bulgaria is a traditional tourist destination gave us a very high appreciation not only because these countries have their representatives here, by the way, reciprocally and we send them there. I agree with the things you say, some of them are a commitment of the regional governors and we can carry out, I think you stressed it, control. That's what we can do. The lighting on the beaches is in the contract, but is it done?! You know, we're taking part in some committees in the municipal councils, so we'll ask them if they're respected. Video surveillance where it exists costs money. We are back in very good coordination, especially with the mayor of Burgas. There's almost everywhere, it stays connected, and most of it is. You remember the exhibitions and I took part in one very soon as a young minister: we went to Burgas for that reason. I know Mrs. Bachvarova used to do it the same way before me. With civilians and agents, we're dealing with them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u93	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is asked again by the National Representative Todor Bajchev regarding the identification of the reasons and conditions which contribute to the committing of crimes against the child's personality in order to remove them in due time. You have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Radev, the heads of regional police stations should organise cooperation with state authorities, local self-government and NGOs through joint programmes. They shall determine the procedure for holding and participating in the meetings with the public. The same shall determine the tasks of the security police officers for the implementation of the strategy approved by the Minister of Interior by adopting measures to improve the partnership between the institutions of the state administration. The task of the police is set to seek to establish an open, productive and useful partnership with the public by performing its functions of ensuring public order and security in terms of transparency and accountability, respecting citizens' rights and dignity. Increasing public confidence and supporting citizens to the police is envisaged as a key element in establishing this partnership. However, I regret to note that there are individuals in our modern society who take advantage of the fragile children's psyche and the child's defencelessness, committing a crime against the individual of the child concerned. I am aware that, given the development of technology and public relations, it is difficult to control access to children and access to certain technologies by children themselves, but this should not refuse us. On the contrary, the Ministry of Interior should take advantage of and build a system for controlling and deterring the criminal contingent in terms of committing a crime against children. In the context of what has been said is the public's concern about ensuring a safe environment for our children, which is why I have the following question to you: Is the Ministry of Interior working and how the reasons and conditions which contribute to committing a crime against the child's personality in order to remove them in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, part of the Ministry's Strategic Objective No 1 for the period 2018 - 2021 is prevention: "Coordinating countering conventional crime and protection of public order." Activities related to the protection of children's lives and health are envisaged for this purpose. Methodical guidance shall be developed annually at the opening of school sessions to the heads of regional governments to set up an organisation to ensure public order, including traffic safety, to prevent abuse of adolescents and high-risk crimes in educational establishments and adjacent to such establishments. An organization has been established for enhanced police presence in the districts with educational institutions in the country; police, junior police inspectors and patrol officers in the so-called peak hours of the day. I've answered a similar question before about schools. Measures shall be taken to counter the distribution of narcotics in educational establishments by setting specific tasks for the execution of police duties. Every year the Ministry performs activities included in the National Program for Child Protection. It focuses on prevention, as you stressed, on children of school age; building models for safe conduct; getting to know students with initial legal concepts. The staff of the Ministry of Interior lectures on the national program The work of the police in the schools has such a program. The Ministry also conducts a number of thematic campaigns aimed at limiting traffic traumatism with children and reducing the number of crimes and offences, including those committed by adolescents. In order to prevent early school age the program is realized and the Children's Police Department is said to be. 204 children's police departments were established on the territory of the country for 2017. Within the framework of the Bulgarian-Swiss project the protection of the child and prevention of child crime is created and put into service a specialized website for reducing the number of cases of child violence and child crime. The Ministry of Interior is training teachers and other professionals to work with children and improve the skills for Internet protection. In order to protect children and prevent their sexual exploitation and harassment, information materials on the safety of children on the Internet have been developed and published. The Ministry actively cooperates with other state institutions involved in this problem, such as the Ministry of Education, the State Agency for Child Protection, which has basic functions in this area, and the Agency for Social Assistance, of course, with other state structures and agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Baychev, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Radev, thank you for your correct information. I'll also introduce you to some statistics. According to the current system of professional effectiveness for combating and preventing crime and the anti-social manifestations of minors, as well as the working method, there are several issues that you have not addressed, perhaps in the back we will discuss them, namely: lack of coordination and interinstitutional cooperation. The system is bureaucratic and clumsy in the imposition of stricter educational measures. The procedures for the imposition of educational measures are too extended, which leads to a sense of impunity in child perpetrators. I would also like to share something from my practice as a lawyer, namely that the educational measures provided for in the Law on Combating Anti-Societal Events of Minors are insufficiently effective, as a result of which they do not have the necessary impact. Some of them are practically not applicable and often unfulfilled. The measures under the same law are insufficiently effective in relation to the system perpetrators. I am pleasantly surprised at the work with schools and the preventive activities that have been undertaken there, as they affect and cover a large part of public life and the sector, but there is something else. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior should inform the competent and control authorities in order to increase the effectiveness of the penalties imposed, as well as to impose effective measures on parents who have been irresponsible towards their children with antisocial behaviour. We also need more effective work with minors and their parents by a children's pedagogical room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u99	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Minister Radev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, it must be such statistics, but you understand that there is not such a direct link between the Ministry of Interior and the children. We're chasing criminals, and with the kids, we're all trying to do what I said, but the main commitment there is to the State Agency for Child Protection. We're gonna give signals, you're right: signals to all that passes through the eyes of the policeman, who is also a district inspector, and whatever. All this goes where the institutions should go, and I ask you to take their place, including the family. I'd like to highlight something that hasn't actually come up so far, and that's why I took the floor. There is a mechanism of the Ministry of Education for which we have a very active participation. Those kids who are out there are potential criminals to go in over 20 thousand are currently, 22,000 is the exact number we managed to get in, especially minority groups, to be inside the school. It's prevention. If that's what we're able to do, I think these numbers you're hearing, this huge number, is actually for future potential criminals if we can't educate them. That's where we're trying to do it. Thank you for your confidence, because everyone is focusing in the Ministry of Interior to solve many problems. You also mentioned the punishments. And that's a little outside of us. But for the alarm, for what we see, and for what we need to transmit where we need to, we're bound to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u101	Thank you, Minister Radev. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Andreev about the activities of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I ask this question on behalf of many citizens of Varna region. In the same period of time start the summer tourist season in Varna and the harvest of the agricultural production. These two campaigns will have a big impact on the operational situation in Varna region. From meetings with the residents of the district of Varna, the main problem at present, apart from moneylessness, lack of jobs, is insufficient police presence, and in many settlements lack one that is necessary for the peace, security and life of the residents of Varna region. Minister, in this regard, I ask you the following question: please provide me with information about the state distribution of ODP Varna, according to the RAC and on the basis of comparative analysis what was 2010 if you wanted in figures, percentages, what is now in 2018? What is the number of pensioners working in the ODP Varna, and what measures have you taken in relation to the upcoming tourist season?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, as of 15 March 2018, the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Varna has a general state total of 1546 employees. One thousand five hundred forty-six employees! In addition, an additional state was established in 2012 and a group of That's extra. At present, new competition procedures have been announced for the purpose of filling in the vacant posts. In view of the timely planning and organisation of activities related to the protection of public order in tourist complexes and settlements during the upcoming summer tourist season and the harvest, as you said, a number of measures have been identified. First of all, holding meetings with hotel operators and tour operators on the ground, analyzing and arguing the need to form joint assignments with police officers from other countries, I mentioned a similar response to Burgas; creating an estimate of the justification of the need for additional powers and funds from other structures of the Ministry of Interior, including the Gendarmerie; preparing a mechanism for information provision of a security line for Bulgarian and foreign tourists. Next, in Varna you have a number of operational measures aimed at increasing the effectiveness of police force work, changes in patrol and post work. For some of the employees of the Territorial Police for the summer period, different working hours will be introduced from the current one. Finally, an enhanced control of the activities of private security companies is being carried out, as well as an organisation for conducting specialized police operations and carrying out checks together with other institutions. From 2010 to 15 March 2018 19 changes were made in the state of the regional governments of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. As a result, the total number was reduced by 259 stats and by 15 March 2018 was 808 stats. The amendments to the Social Security Code entered into force in 2015......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The right to a pension is a subjective right, as you know, and is exercised at the will of its holder. In exercising their right to pension, the employees of the Ministry are neither obliged to notify nor to seek permission from the appointing authority or head of the Ministry's structure for this personal act. In this regard, the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna has no data and none have been received from other institutions about the number of employees exercising the right to pension. That's how it is in the entire Ministry of Interior. If I have to find out how many pensioners there are, I have to ask the National Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, thank you for the correct data and for the comparison between these years, but I would like to note one fact. The police department of Provadia, Mr. Minister, serves operationally three municipalities of Zozopol, Provadia and the municipality of Vetrino, with one road and post car. There's no way, it's not possible, even if they give all they can to these employees, they can't cover this area operationally. It's the same problem in other municipalities. In general, this problem with the shortage of personnel is mainly in the police station that serve rural areas, because every employee who comes into such a police station is then looking for realization in the big city, realization, work for him, for the woman, for a better way of life. And it is these municipalities that suffer from this problem of police presence. I know that this problem has not started with you, but I hope that this problem will be resolved in your term, because we owe it to the inhabitants of these settlements and we must provide them with their fundamental constitutional rights, their tranquility of life, property. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Mr. Minister, will you take the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, since I was short on time, I have made a sample for all police departments and you can see it, but for Provadia you specifically said from 150 to 60. Is it 60? I think it's 91 right now, like they're down. And here I agree. They must be responsible for two or three villages. Yeah, we have a map that I've told you about a lot of times when it comes to this, where by different coloring in darker or brighter red, the areas with the most criminal crimes are shown. Maybe that's not the case here. I'll check it out. And one more thing, they'll be there on Tuesday. There's an analysis, the whole month is running. On Tuesday, I will be in Varna and these questions that you have asked, I will personally be interested in how far they have come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There was a request for a declaration on behalf of a group. Here you are, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! DECLARATION of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria on the occasion of March On March 26, we celebrate a significant event in the national calendar. During the Balkan War of 1912, the siege of Adrianople by the Bulgarian troops from October 1912 to 26 March 1913 ended with the capture of the Turkish fortress by the Second Bulgarian Army, a decisive victory that led to the end of the Balkan War. The allies are under the general command of General Nikola Ivanov and the decisive breakthrough of the eastern sector of the fortress was carried out under the command of General Georgi Vazov, who is the brother of the people's poet Ivan Vazov and General Vladimir Vazov. One nation with a population of less than five million and a military budget of less than two million pounds of sterling annually brought out on the battlefield after a 14-day mobilization army of 400,000 men and for four weeks passed over 256 km into enemy territory, captured one fortress and sieged another, led and won two major battles against the available armed power of a nation of 20 million and stopped only at the gates of the enemy capital. Joy and excitement are unspeakable! On this day we worship the feat of the Bulgarian warriors who died in the capture of the Edirne fortress. Unfortunately, after just a few months of September-October of the same year, we are witnessing one of the most dramatic and tragic events in Bulgarian history the genocide and migration of Thracian Bulgarians from their home in Eastern and Western Thrace, which directly affects more than 300,000 Bulgarians. On the south, in a valley, there were the corpses of about 100 women and children; there were little children caught by their feet and killed, having been hit on the ground. Others, very small, still in vocations, and tied them to a heavy stone, so trapped they died. Then on Tahtadjik-balkan we found dead children thrown on the road to Kurbalaka, at the gathering place, children in diapers, thrown, dead. There was a newborn here and left naked. Thus Professor Lyubomir Miletic describes one of the greatest tragedies in Bulgarian history in his book The Disorder of Thracian Bulgarians in 1913. Bulgarkoy with 350 Bulgarian men shot, the bloody march of the Bulgarians of Dedeagaccio, graduated in the bloody waters of Arda, cannot be forgotten. The Thracian genocide has long been recognized as the first in the history of the 20th century. It marks the beginning of a phenomenon, which in the coming decades will become the biggest global problem, the reasons for which are still unclear. On this day, we honor the memories of the thousands of Thracians banished from their homeland, who remain in Turkish, and the refugees find shelter in the liberated Homeland. We honor the victims of the unheard genocide, of the nightmare, of persecution, extermination and destruction of the Thracian Bulgarians. We also honor the numerous Bulgarian heroes who have remained forever in the People's memory.... Captain Petko Voyvoda, Dimitar Madzharov, Rusi Slavov and many others. March 24th is one of the brightest and most memorable dates of our history and one of the most glorious and heroic pages of Bulgarian new chronicle! It is no coincidence that our grateful grandfathers in the distant 1914s declared March 26 for Thrace Day, and the Bulgarian government officially recognized it in 2006. Since then all Bulgarian patriots, officers and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church celebrated March 26 as a Bulgarian holiday. And it is so significant today because the liberation Balkan War is, unfortunately, a rare but great example of unity in our history. This is not just a battle for territorial unity. This is the emancipation of the powerful urge and spiritual community between the Bulgarians. Our people vividly and categorically demonstrate their will for unity, their will for the realization of their national and moral ideal. Dear colleagues, let us also be so united and unanimous in our national priorities, regardless of our political views and biases. Let us honor all those whose national cause was unity, not division; understanding, not confrontation; patriotism and patriotism, not political strife. We still owe to the memory and sacrifice of the ancestors who created the Bulgarian state and those who gave their lives for the unification of the nation. And more than any other time we must contribute to the preservation of the Bulgarian identity in the European Union and the globalizing world. Our ideal to be Bulgaria with a reborn economy, culture, science and education, Bulgaria, whose citizens do not emigrate to the world, but enjoy a decent life in their homeland! Let the meaning of our efforts be the prosperity and spiritual development of the nation, the affirmation of its dignity and perspective as a European nation with a glorious past, which must be remembered and tachi. Dear colleagues, let us learn from history and make our honest reckoning................................................................................................... Let's do it in the name of our people, whom we swore to, and who sent us here. And let us not forget our duty to the Thracian Bulgarians and their descendants! Because Bulgaria is still in debt and the Bulgarian government is obliged not to let the Thracian issue go into oblivion. Therefore, we demand that the fair claim for the compensation of the Thracian Bulgarians be placed in front of the Turkish side at the highest level. Let our role as mediator between Europe and Turkey not be at the expense of our role as defender of the Bulgarian national interest. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u111	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. We continue with another question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev to the Minister of Interior. It is about the cases of aggressive treatment and beating children in children's institutions. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I am seriously concerned about the issue of the security of Bulgarian children. Particular concern has caused frequent cases of aggression in schools and beating children from the lowest age groups in the nursery and kindergartens, in most part became known and received publicity thanks to records made by parents. These cases rightly raise the awkward question as to whether it is a single case or whether it is already a really worrying trend and a serious phenomenon. The fact is that parents feel insecurity, need and demand actions and measures to improve the environment of security. For nearly one month now, since February 12th, parents from 12 cities in the country in the form of a legal protest have expressed their demands within the framework of an initiative for a quality and innovative education system, with the signature currently supported by more than 20 thousand people. The initiative and concerns of parents received the unique attitude and willingness to cooperate by all members of the Commission for Children, Youth and Sports. Given the desire for efficiency and the outcome of this cooperation, I ask for your response to the following: in the last two years, what are the data on abuse of children committed by the staff in the institutions concerned and on the number of deaths or bodily injury cases? How many complaints and signals did she receive? What is the number of checks carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, the Ministry of Interior is currently not collecting statistics on acts committed by staff of childcare facilities. No such statistical data shall be collected. In the case of specific acts related to violence, the relevant norms of Bulgarian legislation shall apply. In the last two years the Ministry received 34 complaints and reports of cases of aggressive treatment. A thorough and thorough examination has been carried out on all of them and the files have been sent to the respective district prosecution for competence. Four pre-trial proceedings have been initiated in the case of child injury and there is no recorded case of child death, fortunately caused by employees of a children's institution. The Child Protection Act clearly identifies the rights of Bulgarian children. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 The child's protection is said to be based on respect and respect for the child's personality. Article 11 of the same law states that each child is entitled to protection against infringement of his dignity, methods of education, physical, mental and other violence and forms of influence contrary to his or her interests. Despite the laws that exist in the Republic of Bulgaria, children still continue to be subjected to psychological and physical harassment by the staff, as you pointed out, and we have all seen on television. The complaints and complaints of child rights violations shall also be carried out by staff of the General Directorate of the Child's Rights and the State Agency for the Protection of the Child. In the event of the detection of infringements which are of other authorities, the staff of the General Directorate for Child Rights shall notify them without delay. The Ministry and its staff shall conduct a rapid and timely exchange of information with the employees of this state agency as the Agency is a body for the management, coordination and control of child protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a line, Mr. Chenchev? You have this opportunity, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I am pleased that the Ministry acted promptly on complaints and signals. As far as we can tell, there's 34 of them. This really turns such cases into an alarming trend. What's glad is that what the minister reported was that there was no death, fortunately. Indeed, Minister, the situation there, I would say, from what we are following, I look at the demands of the parents, that they have made such a petition with over 20,000 people who have supported it, really gives reasons for concern, and I ask the Ministry to really closely monitor the situation and react in due time, as so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chenchev! I only take the duplicate because once again it is raised by MPs for the protection of children and anything related to the crimes and against them, including crimes committed by children, but you have raised the issue of schools. I have delicately turned your attention to the Agency, which is responsible for these matters. Of course, the Ministry of Interior, with all its responsibility and all the powers I have listed, deals with these cases. This is not just an opposition issue, it is not just ours. Thank you for putting it on. With all seriousness and by all means, we will treat him, but I don't want to miss the family. Thanks again for trusting me, and you're pointing everything at the Ministry of Interior. Yeah, but we show up at the end anyway, I want to highlight it. Something's going on at the diner, we're looking at these things, not to mention them on TV. Everyone from law enforcement including my employees and colleagues from the Ministry of Interior are outraged, but we show up there at the end. We're going to see who broke the law. If there is a signal, this is mandatory, from this tribune again please hear how few the signals are. I was also impressed: for two years " 34. Not many of those signals. Just last week, there were a few signals on TV, shot at it. You have phones, social media let him in. I'm asking everyone to know that the rules are such that there should be a signal, this signal is necessarily set and we start working on it. Everything we put together, we give the D.A. The prosecution, of course, if that is the case, if not, before that and we refer to the Agency for the Protection of the Child, with its capacity to work. I want to return the conversation to this mechanism that is being made right now and that is working. I mentioned a little while ago on another matter, the mechanism on which these 22,000 children should enter school there to be trained, because much of the things that happen in children's institutions and schools are not only initiated by teachers, educators. They're total.. there's provocation on one side and on the other side of our attention. Thank you for pointing your attention in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question for Minister Radev. Thank you for today's participation in the meeting. Dear MPs, we are moving on to the questions raised to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. First of all, a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova on the development of integrated support programmes for areas with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, in the Third Government Management Program of Boyko Borisov, you have given priority to balanced regional development in order to reduce regional differences. This is probably about the whole territory of Bulgaria. It is about internal cohesion policy and the means to do so. In parallel with this, Mr. Minister, you know, you are an informed person in this area, the facts show that the differences between the districts are deepening. The facts show that the Bulgarian regions are one of the most uncompetitive regions in the European Union. Our country is one of the Member States of the European Union in which the difference between the capital and the other regions is most pronounced. It is logical to bet a policy that you have written in the Management Programme that you will develop integrated support programmes for regions with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. And since there was one in the first two governments, you had as a document a targeted investment programme, you wrote it, created it, created it, created anticipation, moods. The Regional Minister, then you Deputy Minister, supported her. The Minister of Finance said: "This is not my view of the country's development and the financial resources that should go and influence the regions. " The conclusions of financiers also do the following as important for the finances that go to the regions. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 billion 200 million with a mandate, in a different way they have gone somewhere in the country, but this is not a targeted impact, these are not integrated programmes. That is to say, there is a resource, but it is not according to the Minister of Regional Development's view, it is not according to the view of the collective leadership, it is sectorly here and there something is pricked, which does not give sustainability and does not equal the regional differences. This is my concern to raise the question and in parallel to asking you: You have committed yourself to Bulgarian citizens with such a policy, how have you implemented it for one year by the government?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within five minutes in the questioning procedure. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have very precisely and clearly formulated in the questioning and made rather the incision between policy and the instruments for its implementation and realization. Regional policy, as a horizontal policy, refracts through its prism all sectoral ones from a territorial point of view, with the global aim of reducing the differences in development and disproportions in development between the different regions and within them, of course, between the different municipalities and districts in the different regions. It is a fact that regional policy is implemented with different instruments, not only financial ones such as programmes, such as funds, but also through regulatory ones, and even through institutional ones. Deconcentrating an administration in a given area, for example, is also an instrument for conducting a regional policy. You know better than that. Specifically for the Targeted Investment Programme. You know, with pain we have debated both you and I and the Regional Commission, and in others in expert and personal meetings, it has been developed. The MRDP has developed a similar programme within two mandates. It covers the backward regions of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, the border, the semi-mountain and the mountain underdeveloped ones. Its main objective is to increase the employment of the population and attract investment in the economically lagging regions in the country with a view to supporting economic development in order to achieve growth, create new jobs and overcome negative demographic processes in these regions. The purpose of targeted State intervention is to support these areas. I mentioned, with the key demographic problem, and, of course, with an increase in economic parameters in them. In the full scope of the Targeted Investment Programme are included more than half of the Bulgarian municipalities - 149 of which, however, live 30% of the population of Bulgaria, but cover more than 54% of the national territory. We see even in this angle what disproportion there is. On the basis of the territorial scope of the Programme, its overall structure includes four sub-programmes for Northwestern Bulgaria; sub-programme for the Development of the Rhodope Region; Sub-programme for the Strandzha-Sakar Region; and sub-programme for the Development of the Border, Half Mountain and Mountain Low Developed Regions. I will not comment on all the strategic objectives of the Programme. Some are the main priority areas in it: stimulating the economy; strengthening human resources; thirdly, renovating infrastructure systems and risk prevention; fourthly balanced spatial development through cross-border cooperation. In view of the better applicability of sub-programmes and in order to ensure results in the medium term, specific interventions, specific projects of the good principle from below, have been identified for each target area by local authorities through regional development councils to reach the Ministry. A financial resource is envisaged, you mentioned. The start of the programme should have started 2017 as specific investments. Its total budget for the period 2017 - 2025 is almost 1 billion. 300 million. lv. At the moment no funding has been provided, you well mentioned the Programme, but it is still a good basis for policy making and directing public resources towards the development of the backward areas that fall within its scope. Since a large part of the projects set out in the Targeted Investment Programme as specific intervention measures, such as specific specific projects, are financed through other instruments, either through targeted decrees of the Council of Ministers, of which you mentioned, be it through projects related to European Union funds, i.e. projects through operational programmes, be it through separate budgetary programmes available to investment ministries such as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, such as the budget programmes of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, mainly in the sector of the European Union and in the sector of Gesating and preventing landslide, erosion processes. Maybe I'll get more information in the back. I will only mention that the number of projects and the value of grants under projects that are implemented or in the process of implementation under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" in the municipalities that are included in the Targeted Investment Programme is as follows: for the Northwestern region we have 79 contracts for 265 million. lv. the grant; for the region of Rodopi. " 63 contracts, more than 220 million. lv.; for Stranja-Sakar-Sakar-Sakar-Sakar-Sakar region, 12 contracts, more than 8 million Three hundred thousand. lv. the grant; for the Mountain, semi-mountain or low-developed areas.... 37 contracts with a total resource of more than 120 million. lv. Overall we have 191 contracts with a resource over 614 million. lv. only according to the REGIONs in growth. I will continue a little later, indeed the topic is extremely important and up-to-date. Thank you. PRESENT YAVOR NOTEV: Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Yankova, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u123	Dear Minister, since asking is about politics, and in the Programme you have written that regional differences can be changed through integrated programs, besides "Regions in growth" which is a European programme that has its weaknesses, of course, you know that district cities remain in the periphery without financial resources for 14 years and for this reason there should be a targeted impact there. These are living peripheries, especially the district cities. In the budget, we proposed a targeted impact fund. Such a fund as an alternative and perhaps as your understanding as several ministers in the cabinet, but the fact is that in the State Budget Act there is no means of targeted impact. I understand from you that you continue to maintain that, yes, the Northwest is the poorest region in Europe, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, mountain and semi-mountain, but the problem is already happening for the whole country. My second question is: will the government have the political will to actually start in a complex to look for the targeted impact? Because what's happening right now? Those are the two questions. You have taken out again the theme "Aimed investment program." Two governments, there is such a document, you as ministers, part of your cabinet reheat it, offer it, excite anticipation, but it is not financially bound and for it there is no act of the Council of Ministers. There is no ruling, it is really a good wish in your hands. That's why my questions are: is there targeted programs, or is this Targeted Programme? Do you have a financial resource and a political will to make something happen towards integrated territorial investment?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, in the back you have made a commitment to answer these questions, to complete your answer. You have this opportunity, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the fact is that you know very well the genesis and the specifics of the relationship in the cabinet. I'm not going to confront the finance minister, you can bet! It is a fact that perhaps our efforts as ministers, which we support such an integrated targeted tool, have not been sufficient, even with your support in this case. Yes, I will defend such a policy, but not only in the form of the instrument, a Targeted Investment Programme, since after the adoption of such a programme, and it has been adopted, filling it with financial content will not solve all the problems of the backward regions, but will be a clear basis for regional policy. In the first part of my reply, I mentioned that a large part, not to say in the majority of the public investments directed through individual instruments, whether by a decree of the Council of Ministers on the basis of sound financial implementation of the budget and the efforts made by the Ministry of Finance and Revenue agencies to have surpluses to spend in similar areas for specific sites, whether by way of other budget programmes of the ministries, we are once again conducting regional policy, as all the project proposals that we finance fall into priorities and, for the most part, as specific projects and intervention measures in the Targeted Investment Programme. That is, in an indirect way, without fulfilling the programme with financial content, we are fulfilling its objectives. Apart from that, because we only commented on the ODA, every public resource that reaches the Bulgarian citizens has its territorial dimension. It is integrated in its essence and is refracted through the projects in the territory in which it is realized. Every public resource has regional significance. The question is, how far does it go in these regions? I have subtracted and will provide you with even more detailed statistics not only on the R &amp; D, but on all operational programmes, including the Rural Development Programme, OPEC, OPEC. We've got good money. For example, in the ODA we comment more globally in Northern and Southern Bulgaria, with 67% of the population of Bulgaria living in southern Bulgaria and almost 80% of the gross domestic product is in South Bulgaria. The Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" financed projects in South and Northern Bulgaria in a ratio of 52% to 48%. Here we have a more global magnitude of the regional approach still at programming level. I've made a reference to our travel projects with targeted government funding. I've ruled out European funds here. With the renovations made from the state budget in the period 2016 - 2017 when the Targeted Investment Programme was launched, for these regions we have almost 383 million for repair only for road projects from the state budget. In the course of the current renovation we have 220 million in these municipalities and in the backward regions. Under the Transit Roads, we have more than 101 million government and investment loans. lv. We have implemented cross-border programs. But not to list all the tools. And these regions have also reached funds under the Energy Efficiency Programme or other budgetary programmes. Breaking things through the focus of the backward regions, much of the country's resources are deliberately realized in these municipalities. I know what your criticism is, I know it well. You're sure I'm well aware of it. It may take even more serious efforts to have sustainability of this policy, to have forecastability and a more balanced concept with specific follow-up of priorities, objectives and specific projects. You might say we're working on a piece, but that's something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Due to the importance of the topic, we have delayed time, but I think we will not tolerate criticism. Mrs. Yankova, you have a say in how to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The fact is that in the programme implemented by the government, you have recorded: One of the main objectives is to reduce regional differences. This is a recognition that both governments have done something, that European funds are being worked on. There is supposed to be a complex approach and conclusions, but our regions are one of the poorest. We are catching up with the capital, to some extent going to the regions that have been developed, to the Southwestern region and several cities. The fact is that you have a commitment in your program to the Bulgarian citizens, you have recorded it. It is good to take out the programme and look at it: "Integrating support programmes for regions with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. Now these integrated programs you really didn't do. The problem with regional differences stands. I was at the debate, and you have had the opportunity to hear Commissioner Oettinger say that it is recommended targeted, investment action that this is an experience in the European Union in order to be able to support the backward regions in their development. We in your budget have offered you a solution to some of the problems: targeted impact of cities up to 10,000 inhabitants, funds for the water supply of small settlements up to 3000 inhabitants and again financial resources - a package in which, if you had looked at it in its entirety, you could have actually made a targeted impact. Mr. Minister, the conclusion is: in the first year of Borisov's third government there is no policy, there is no political will of the whole cabinet for integrated projects for targeted impact on the poorly developed regions. I appeal to you: on Wednesday at the Council of Ministers, put this issue in place so that I do not invite the Prime Minister to the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Let's move on to the next question. He was re-placed by the MP Ms. Dora Yankova to Minister Nankov. It refers to the quality of the drinking water in the district of Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Nankov! My question is about the quality of the drinking water in the district of Nashtan, the city of Devin. At a meeting one month ago, the residents of the district, but not only at this meeting, but at all other meetings in the neighborhood, I was informed and people again, unfortunately, raise the question of the poor quality of the drinking water they use from the water company offering them the water. It was shared with anger. You know that in Devin municipality is one of the highest increases in water due to the policy that follows the government. You are empowering the governor to vote for these increases and for higher prices in the regions. In parallel, municipalities do not have financial resources. Devon is a large municipality, with large territory, with many settlements, but if you have to do something with tax money, you can't make an investment. In the budget of Devin Municipality for Water and Water in the district of...................................................................................................... lv. for design. In the investment plan of the water company, the company was debated a few days ago with the district manager in this package I could not see for the district. I could not respond to the residents of........ as you as a representative of the government and minister are engaged in politics, whose portfolio is this policy. Please inform me what you are doing through the water operator to improve water quality and perhaps water infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I'm taking note of the name of the neighborhood. I beg your pardon, I misplaced the emphasis. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, there are three conceptual topics in my answer to the question. That's how you put them. First of all, the policy with the cost of water, especially for Devin municipality. There, politics is about the actions we take. There have been changes in the Water Act in 2015. I have checked all colleagues from the Bulgarian BSP voted for these changes in order to have a single price of water for the territory of the given water. Second is the quality of water. I have prepared information for you to appease the people all the test samples, all the test protocols on all the biochemical, Organoleptic water parameters in the district. The water doesn't have abnormal parameters. It is a fact that the water system in the district of............................................ the water system in the district of........ It is highly depreciated and in poor quality. I'm gonna skip the résumé my colleagues wrote me. I summarized it with three sentences. I'll give you a brief answer, except I'll give you the water quality protocols I've prepared. They're from March 6th, pretty up-to-date. In the budget programme, but not under the water operator, not under the investment costs, but in the water, the price of water was not indexed nine years, and at twice and a half increase in the minimum wage for this period, almost twice the increase in the average wage, increase in the cost of consumables, electricity and so on. Not to list all the waste feathers of the water supply, Smolyan, the normal inflation processes, the correlation index. We're all wondering, and I'm guessing that you, too, how the Water and Water Department Smolyan managed to preserve some positive financial and economic and technical operating parameters in this shortage. In relation to what I have to answer specifically to your question, we have a small budget fund in the MRB budget programme, which the former Minister Lilyana Pavlova called "Clean waters" mainly aimed at clean drinking waters, and in very rare cases is financed sewerage, the mayor has applied with a resource of 983 thousand. lv. We have set aside budget funds for the implementation of the project for the replacement of the water supply network for drinking water in the district of............................................................................................... He's on the name list. The budget of the Ministry is approved as separate items with expenditure under budget programmes. The specific project is set. This year will be funded. I hope that the poor condition of the water supply network, which is expressed in frequent accidents, in poor submission of the service, will be solved as a problem rather than in its quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! There's a water problem. If you hadn't promised me funds for the water, I would have brought you water every Tuesday from...... and asked you to drink from it. Because the local population doesn't drink it! He doesn't drink it because the pipes are one of the oldest etherite tubes. You know, where there are connections, it means bad quality. The waterfall is in the river and when there is a flood of waterfall, the quality has also changed. I communicate a lot with people. The good news for the residents of the district is whether because of the question I am putting, or for other reasons, you have allocated resources, so that the residents of the neighborhood may buy another year of drinking water, and then there will be a changed technical infrastructure and these leaks will be replaced. Mr. Minister, this information will be glued to the center of the district....and let people look at it. The other news for Rhodopeans and for the people is that the policy of yes, you support the policy of increasing the cost of water companies, but for Devin, the municipal council limited the mayor's mandate to vote to increase the price. You know, the problem is whether the first increase in the price of water in Smolyansko due to administrative procedures is legal. Do not allow false documents to go to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission at any other time, because this compromises not only you, but it is put as additional burdens on the citizens themselves. It's a good thing I put the question to you and put aside financial resources for a sq. "Nestand" and the residents of....................... to know that there will be financial resources. In a year, I'll ask how they spent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Would you like to take the opportunity for a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, not the price of the water company, but the price of the water that the water company provides as a service. Since we are not privatizing, we are concessionating the water supply, the price of the water company as assets does not interest us. Secondly, yes, thank you for the question, since such questions also move us to action. This action, however, was taken back in 2017. When we were preparing the State Budget Act, in the part of the Ministry's expenditure, we had divided two meetings in Devin Municipality, one of them even made a specific commitment. You know, there we found a heat conduit to deliver the wasteful up to this point? Autumn 2017, warm thermal mineral water. A commitment is a poet. In no way do I downplay, on the contrary, admire your efforts, but indeed the funds are provided. The site will be implemented and after a year together we will check how the municipality has dealt with the effective spending of these funds and how much it has solved the problem. On the basis of your question, we have a lot to think about: is this how we will drive it in the water sector? Whether, on the basis of the resource available to the state, I exclude European funds, they are not limitless, they are not panacea, and in the time frame after 2020, there is money for water, figuratively speaking, it is not there. The State of Two Tools: POSO.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. The State is not obliged, by the way, to be a municipal infrastructure owned, operated, operated, operated by private commercial companies, I say private, regardless of the public nature of the State, state or mixed participation of the State and the municipality. If we make money in the road sector, we have talked a lot about this topic, we will find long-term sustainability to finance the sector, but if in the water supply sector we will be doing so in the next ten, fifteen, twenty years and in the absence of instruments of European solidarity, i.e. operational programmes, the Vic sector is not going well, figuratively speaking. By no means the subject of Concenses, by no means! The concept is given and perhaps we really need less populism and politics on the subject and much more expertise. Mr. Genov was here. You have a lot of expertise on the subject. Together, we find a good solution that will be a long-term solution, not for a year, two, but for the next ten, fifteen years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question by the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov. Ms. Jeleva will develop the issue of the state of drinking water in Haskovo and the region. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question concerns the quality of drinking water in the town of Haskovo and the region. Since the beginning of 2017, the drinking water in Haskovo has been measured with high levels of uranium. This condition continues to this day, and not only is the issue currently in place, but it is also deepening. Unfortunately, only a month ago, such increased values were found in the villages of Dinevo, Haskovo municipality and the village of Malki Voden, Madzharovo municipality. The problem remains and no solution has been found for the villages in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, Varbitsa, Stalevo and Light. For a year Haskovo Municipality has been buying bottled water for gardens and schools. In several districts of the city the drinking water can not be used for a year, and the villages in Dimitrovgrad are in watermen using drinking water through watermen. At the moment, the most important thing is to find the reasons for these deviations. I am sure that in your response you will pay great attention to the fact that 2 million have been allocated. lv. for duplicate wells in the town of Haskovo. What will happen to the other settlements in the area? In this regard, our question to you is: when will the problem of drinking water be solved in the town of Haskovo and the region? What measures have been taken so far, and what will be taken in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Jeleva, Mr. Dinkov! I must disappoint you. I will criticize the experts who have prepared my answer - there is nothing for these two million levs here. Nothing! Since 2017, the town of Haskovo has been operating an order of RZI, Haskovo, water supplied from the water supply network, to be used for domestic purposes only. The population of Haskovo has been informed not to use this water for drinking and cooking of food. Drinking water is supplied with watermelons at 12 points on the territory of the city. In accordance with orders from RZI Haskovo, four wells at the moment remain excluded for the operation of the site to be stopped................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The joint rapid monitoring of the city's water supply network and the regional laboratory of the Executive Agency for the Environment of Water Quality in the water systems continues. The levels of natural uranium and/or total alpha activity shall be monitored. In all settlements with identified problems, the measures prescribed by RZI "Haskovo" are respected. At present, through funding from the budget, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has contributed funds to Haskovo Municipality. However, the mayor of the municipality is delayed, we will not criticize him. We also have work projects to duplicate pipe wells in the area of the water supply zone of Uzundzhovo, multiplying three pipe wells in the area of the water supply zone of Eastern. An assessment of the conformity of investment projects from Construction Supervision is ongoing. What's taking so long with this realization? We will send a check, but we are not a competent authority either, perhaps because it is within the prerogatives of the local authorities. In this case, with financial resources provided, it is basically to increase the pace of work on these so important projects. I'm not gonna quote what the coworkers said. Perhaps globally, I will lock in my reply, the problem of water in Haskovo was very thorough, expert, professionally analyzed by the Temporary Committee of the National Assembly. Mr. Georgi Kolev was her chairman. It prescribed a set of measures and implemented within the framework of the investment programme, together with the colleagues from Vik Haskovo EOOD, will be realized part of them. They would all have a palatative nature if the funds you ask for would rather be responsible in much part for these two million levs if they were not met. Everyone else on the water supply line will be palliative. Apart from that, the pre-project studies have already started, an alternative water source for the town of Haskovo and the region is being sought, because the water body of the underground water supply in the long term, in the next 10, 15 experts still can't tell what this horizon is like, could be, figuratively speaking, contaminated on the basis of uranium and alpha activity. That is, the measures currently being taken, after fifteen years, for example, to be non-working. In other words, there must be an option, still difficult, of the scientific community, of the engineers working on the subject, to give a long-term and long-term solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dinkov, you will take advantage of the possibility of a line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! A year ago, the question of water in Haskovo was raised in this Chamber, as it was clear from the end of 2016. A decision was made to release money from the Council of Ministers, and this thing happened, however, the implementation of the events that were set out took an extremely long time. The money cannot be allocated another month of April and the wells can be built at the end of 2017, and the order for the water supply from Pompena station to the North Zone and Pompena Station to be awarded is to be taken measures on it only at the beginning of March this year. As things are going, it appears that the issue will not be resolved by the end of this year. I'd like to add something else. You told me about the temporary committee of inquiry. In the decisions of the Temporary Water Commission of inquiry, there was a decision to set up an Interdepartmental Commission to investigate the causes of water pollution. This issue is still on the agenda, because in the long run it is not clear whether the other wells will also receive relevant uranium contamination and the water has increased alpha activity. You didn't say anything about the villages in your response. Seven villages in the area cannot currently drink water from their water sources due to pollution. When we looked at the budget, it came up. [[the President signals that time has run out]] for a program for the construction of local treatment plants for settlements up to 10 thousand inhabitants. I think the solution to these villages and smaller towns should be sought in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u142	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dinkov! Like you, I am not aware of the delay, the slow, sluggish, not to use any other qualifying actions of Haskovo Municipality's management. You remember, one of the first decisions of the Council of Ministers in May was precisely the provision of financial resources in order to implement this engineering event to duplicate wells so that the water in Haskovo could be made for drinking needs. You are not right that the problem has been known since 2016. Fact, laboratory tests show that the early 1990s water in Haskovo is with these values ranging with very small amplitudes in the individual years, from the 1990s, of uranium content and alpha activity. It is a fact that the reduced, i.e. restrictive, much more restrictive requirements under the European Directive and our regulations subsequently, since 2015, have created the possibility that water in Haskovo is unfit for drinking needs, as five times have been reduced, rather increased requirements for uranium content and other heavy and rare metals. It is a fact that the technology that you are commenting on and which has been examined by the Committee of Research, and our meetings with experts on the subject, the technology for local treatment facilities could hardly prove its effectiveness, as we are talking about uranium, we are talking about radioactive metals and the effect of the purification of such facilities would not be greater than 20 to 30%, that is to say, it is going to bring down the world practice, we have also looked at the US, we have looked at both Russian and German models, we are going to drop by no more than 20 to 30%, and in this case we are going to exceed the standards by five times, to 45-50%. It's really a very heavy subject. First, we need to start from there, the mayor has to complete his commitment on the basis of government-owned resources. By the end of the year, we're going to check how and why they're slowing down, how many heavy planning procedures, as long as we're talking about an emergency and force majeure situation in Haskovo...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u144	Thank you, Minister, we're running out of time. We are going to ask the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Ivanov about putting the Tol system into service. Mr. Svilensky will present the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, every spring, when winter passes and snow melts, Bulgarian citizens, and we MPs, and you ministers, and the Prime Minister, see the result of the government's work on maintaining and repairing road infrastructure - whether it be Republican, whether it be municipal, but the holes in the streets are a fact. This is the most direct indicator for your work on the maintenance and repair of these road sections. What we hear is that a 200-thousand-dollar administration will be taken out into the streets to solve the hole problem, believe me, the administration won't be enough for you. The holes are a lot more than the administration, and that's not the way to do it. The way is perhaps in the policy adopted by the government of Borisov 2, the conduct of the so-called "toll system" -- that is, payment for distance to be reached. You started this in 2015 and after a long effort three years of appeals, suspension, launch of the procedure, to date we have an elected contractor. But what's happening? At the start of the procedure you announce that the range of the system will be about 83 - 85% of the territory or of the roads of Bulgaria. Then suddenly we heard that this would not be 83 or 85%, but would be 60, 70, we reached 50% of the Bulgarian roads. Bulgarian citizens still do not know to this day what part of the road infrastructure and which category of roads will be subject to this fee, because it matters both for the collection and for those people who have to pay this money. A few days ago, and you've been saying for a few weeks that bad roads wouldn't be used tol the system. Here the time is to tell exactly how you will judge which roads are bad, what is the criterion that will be defined by the good roads, who is this person who will say in a given area, a city, a municipality whether to be placed with a tol system, or not be put at risk? Are the companies responsible for the repairs on these roads, which should be placed with a toll system, but because of the poor repairs will not be imposed because you say so? In other words, I have now tried in just two minutes to throw at you a few of the problems that excite the whole Bulgarian society, and it is high time for the Bulgarian government to come before the Bulgarian society... [[the President signals that time has run out]] and to say what is the government's policy on the introduction of the Tol system, step one, step two, step three. In order not to get the wrong idea that we do not support this system on the contrary, for us this is the fairest payment system on the Bulgarian roads, the question is really to explain to the public your policy regarding not only the choice of performer, but also the introduction of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u146	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski and the other co-authors of the question. First of all, thank you for the objective assessment. While we are doing similar palliative repairs with insufficient financial resources, about these mendings we will talk about each year, the society will be dissatisfied and we will, as they say, be in an unfavorable position towards our society, people will be dissatisfied, we too. The Tol system is not a fairer model, what you have confirmed so committed, and as the sufficient resource that will generate on the basis of the fair model, will enable us to fully rehabilitate the roads on the basis of higher guarantees, more efficient spending of resources, so that the responsibility of the performers themselves can be really, and the state will be so that we do not talk every year about mending, holes and all such bad, unfortunately, more than 30 years of practices. Secondly, just to mention the range of roads, in particular, and then I will develop my answer on this issue. Range of roads and charging on these roads. The range as set by assignment will be these almost 85%. The infrastructure will be built on these 85%. I mean, it's a contract commitment. It will be built. All counting cameras, capabilities, mobile scales, charging machines and so on electronic, but we will not start charging tolls on the entire volume of these 85% roads. Regarding the scope of the roads, at the moment the expert working group is outside the scope of the contract, to the Agency with respectively authorized by other departments and the non-governmental sector, we determine the range of roads....it does not matter what we call them: good, bad, in three ranges, three different segments..... poor quality, medium and good. These around 55% of the Bulgarian Republican roads will be specified on which will be charged and on which a toll of heavy goods vehicles will be paid respectively. A little specific details on the policy response. You know, it started, it was signed on 15 January 2018. The contract for introducing tolls and electronic wineries, according to our technical arrangements for the terms of the tender documentation, the contractor should build the system within 19 months. The first seven months are intended mainly for design and construction of the system, delivery of the necessary equipment, software and all other components of the system, as well as for conducting the initial tests in its individual components. And over the other 12 months, it's crucial to prove its functionality in a real working environment of corrected defects, adjusting some imperfections, every country in which a toll system was introduced, even within 2 years, not at these 12 months, these, to call them audits, the system's modifications were a fact. Both Austria and Hungary are all, and even old tol systems, such as in Serbia. The policy that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works conducts on the construction and operation of the electronic system to collect tolls from cars over 3.5 tonnes for the use of the Republican road network can be described, you yourself said it as nationally responsible. It's not just within this government. You know when the idea came. The fact is that already in the second cabinet, by the way, efforts are being made by the office to implement as quickly as possible. They have given 1.5 million a day losses, but it is a fact that on a daily basis Bulgaria loses.. not you and I, our society loses resources, which will be invested precisely for the quality reconstruction of our existing republican roads, but, of course, the construction of new ones, based on the fair model. Major transits will indeed be affected and internal, respectively severe traffic of major transits. Fifty million, according to rough data, on an annual basis is currently the resource that remains in Bulgaria from transiting heavy goods vehicles. Do you know how much it is in Serbia? Three hundred million euros at 50 million. lv. in Bulgaria for almost the same kilometers. What are we talking about? At the time it was 11 euros the one-day car for a heavy goods car, 13. This is the maximum price, you know very well about the European directive that limits us is for a one-day pass through our territory. We have always argued that Bulgaria does not have much resources other than its really strategic, transport, geographical location. It's a geostrategic situation. If we don't start exploiting it, in a good way, in such an adequate way... Therefore, I am convinced, indeed, that this 600 million more than the current bill collections, within a year and a half of the start of the toll system on an annual basis, will give us reason precisely to solve the problems that you are asking me every week on Fridays as parliamentary questions. It's not just you, the whole society is interested in them. Our efforts are directed to the greatest extent [[the President signals that time has run out]] in the maximum rapid construction and operation of the system. I'm running out of time again, but this time it's only 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u148	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Minister. We're about to blow the meeting schedule, so I'm bothering you. Mr. Ivanov, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! From your exhibition once again, Bulgarian citizens, and we have heard a retold of the common framework of our Tol system, which is to be introduced. Indeed, yes, we also say a fair model and so on, but there are a lot of questions that we hope you will answer, of course, and Bulgarian citizens, because this is the most important thing. This is the essence, the basis of this problem. According to your data, exported to the media and the Prime Minister, and from the ministry we hear different figures, for example, revenue including. The Prime Minister and your employees have said that we will receive between a billion, a billion and a half a year. We've been listening to you announce in the media that the revenue will double, and now, according to the latest data, it's about 350 million. I mean, what's the truth about a billion and a half or 750 million because it's extremely important? What goes into the budget, how much money is invested. From there, who will determine the tariffs? Who will determine them and how these tariffs will be fixed, because this is what Bulgarian citizens are particularly interested in. Who will determine this range of roads? You say 85%, but in fact the tariff roads will be less. That's very important that we want to know. If you can answer us, it'll be perfect. Most of all, we are interested in the question how will it affect the Bulgarian carriers of freight and passenger, because we are always talking about foreign? How will this affect Bulgarian carriers? Don't turn out to be a losing side. What is this fair model you said and where are our carriers in this fair model? That's the most important thing we want to know. This is practically the essence of the policy of the country that we want to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is not one thing. The things that are important to you and to society are several. It's a fair model. Why fair? Mr. Svilenski responded to you not only for miles, but also for the corresponding tonnage. The one who travels a greater distance, which weighs more, pays more. It is also the case in all countries that have an adequate transport policy and a policy in maintaining the road sector. That's the fair model. Let's reverse the proportion of cars that currently give us about 240 million based on paper wine stickers to withstand two thirds of the financial sector. This is only found in Belarus and two Latin American countries. We're turning this model around, making it fair the way Mr. Svilensky explained it to you. For the Bulgarian carriers how? There's no, as they say, empty in business. It is normal for Bulgarian carriers, Mr. Svilenski understands a lot about transport and transport activities, he will explain to you that they will calculate the increase in their prices, respectively in the cost of their service, and this is a normal approach. But the Bulgarian carrier, who pays 60 euros in Serbia, for example, and pays 11 euros for the same distance this year, is normal to be more solid, even with its national responsible policy. Yes, passing through Serbia pays 50 euros to the border with Croatia and to Subotica are about 60 euros. In other European countries, they pay 110 euros for even less mileage for less distance. So in this angle, I think you're well aware of logic. The subject will be very politicized. Of course, without debate with the Bulgarian carriers of heavy goods, bus and coach transport... By the way, bus transport is a very social sector not only along the lines of the passengers they carry. There will be some preferences there. There will be a debate, and it will be very wide on the basis of the tariffs, for which you have asked your second specific question and something that you are interested in. Currently, tariffs are under way outside the framework of the contract, colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency will enter into an agreement... [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov.]] That's right, they're gonna make an agreement. And you, too, if you have any expertise. You're welcome. We will also have external logistical assistance. We are currently agreeing on exactly what the approach to it was in the form of an international financial institution. Maybe in two weeks I'll have clarity on that. Who will assist colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency. We have created, you know, a very serious interdepartmental working group together with colleagues from the Customs Agency, the Border Police and the Ministry, the Interior Ministry, the non-governmental sector and the IT sector, and the financial institutions, so that this tariff process, which is the most important to me, is the most important, if we are to be honest, along with the second most important process, which is once again outside the scope of the contract with the selected contractor and the selection of the scope of the road. It is a little easier as a topic, because we have options set out in the World Bank's report at the beginning, at the start of the procedure for tol system, so these two issues in parallel with the implementation of the system will be taken, first of all, as an expert solution, and, second of all, as a political one. That is why I call, because now I assume that Mr. Boychev will answer that he is not satisfied with the answer to the question that I have given, to challenge a debate on the topic in Parliament. We have a right based on the questioning procedure, we will have much more specific, and I also have time to explain and answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's hear the attitude that you ask. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You correctly assumed that we could not be satisfied with the information we receive from you, because under the road and above both the Prime Minister and you, for at least a year and a half where you take pictures of some roads and some objects, explain about the Tol system. The MPs from the BSP tried several times to challenge this debate in the portfolio committee. Everywhere there is talk about the politics of the Tol system, only not in the National Assembly. By the way, this is the body that ultimately has to take a number of legislative decisions in order for this system to function. That's why we did that question today. We can't be happy because what we are getting as information, hence the Bulgarian citizens, is that we are getting nowhere with this system, Minister! You have been waiting so long for this system, so long have been sabotaged to the government and now I understand the big question, which concerns all Bulgarian citizens, who will determine the tariff, you say: we will now decide to prepare for the tariffs and hire additional consultants. I mean, what have we been doing? I ask, " What have we been doing so far? I wanted to get an answer today, who will set the tariffs? Will the Council of Ministers be the authority? Is the Road Infrastructure Agency going to be the Authority? Is it going to be the National Assembly? I would like to make it clear, on behalf of the BSP, that we are ready to participate in this debate and in this process in determining the tariff policy of the introduction of the Tol system on the Republican Road Network, because we are very keen to protect the Bulgarian national interest. This is what we will ask for, because it is now clear from your response that the service will be charged on the transport service accordingly, and that means expecting an increase in prices. Both on bus and coach transport, and this debate had to begin and a very clear commitment to be made that it will be held here openly in front of all Bulgarian citizens. These are the big questions that made us ask this question here. We hope that you and the government will, as soon as possible, engage the people's representation with this issue, because Parliament will have to adopt a number of legislative changes to operate toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u154	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. We move on to the next question by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Petrov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vassileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Valkov. Who's gonna introduce? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, not for the first time together with my colleagues from GERB party in Burgas, we are putting before you the question of the condition and the urgent repair of road II-99 in particular on the 56km stretch, which connects two Strandzha municipalities - two municipal centers, namely Tsarevo and Malko Tarnovo. This insistence is motivated by two arguments. In the numerous conversations we have had, including in answer to another of our questions, you have expressed your agreement that the condition of this road is indeed quite severe and critical, as it has not been repaired for more than 30 years. The other argument that motivates our insistence is that you informed us in the autumn of last year that the API included in its graphic plan the design of a technical project for major repairs. After the heavy rains that were in October and December and in recent weeks, the condition of the road segment has deteriorated, and this is no wonder. Not only does the road connect the two municipal centers, but it passes through villages in Strandzha, which have no other option, another alternative to connecting with the interior of the area, as well as a link between the interior of the mountain and the coast. This is important on two lines. First of all, because this is one of the roads, I would say, the only one in the country through which the patrols of the border police are going, when they have to guard the border of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, when they have a signal of any violation and the other is purely economic, because this time and its condition is the only chance to revive the settlements that are inside Strandzha. They have great potential, many interesting natural landmarks, historical sites that can be seen and shown, chances of successful rural tourism. However, these chances will be realised when road infrastructure is at another level. In this plan, here are our specific questions. Is the road being repaired between Tsarevo and Malko Tarnovo in the programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2018? What are the shortest deadlines in which urgent repairs can be started? Is the design of a complete rehabilitation of the section foreseen and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Savateva, and other MPs from Burgas, Vasileva, Boychev, Peeva! The second-class road II-99 Burgas is part of the Republican road network of the district of Burgas. The road is a major link, you mentioned, between the cities of Tsarevo and Malko Tarnovo and is extremely important for the economy and tourism of the two municipalities. However, we are talking about the most backward, not to say the least backward region in Bulgaria, namely Strandzha. In addition, it is the most direct link between the Southern Black Sea coast and the Republic of Turkey. In the section Tsarevo "Gramatikovo," Malko Tarnovo, in km 58 to km 117 no rehabilitation has been carried out for more than 40 years, which is why the asphalt flooring is heavily worn out. This required road II-99 in the section from Tsarevo to Malko Tarnovo to be included in the programme for the design of the Road Infrastructure Agency. A design assignment is currently being drawn up on the basis of which a public contract will be announced for the selection of a contractor for the development of a technical project for the major repair of the road section. The aim of the project is to restore and improve transport-service qualities and bring the quality of the pavement, which will ensure good drainage of the road and safe conditions for movement. The envisaged date for the initiation of the procedure is 15 July 2018. In case there's no appeal, you know, we'll do a project for no more than 30-35 days with all its consoling parts. However, the contract period does not include the time of the contracting authority to review the project and hold a meeting of the API's expert technical and economic board. It will also make a commitment for no more than two weeks to adopt the project with the possible remarks to be reflected. Following the adoption of the project by the contracting entity, procedures shall be followed for the preparation of the complex assessment reports and the basic requirements for construction and technical control of part design of the duration which are not subject to accurate design. If we sum up everything in 2018, we will end up with absolutely everyone, we will even start, I am convinced, within three to four months, the contract for the selection of a future contractor for the overall rehabilitation of the road, which, by the way, is in 2018, and for these reasons, that the technical project will be prepared and agreed in detail for these 40 km, will be approved the complex report, will be passed through the expert council and all other procedures under the Law on Device in the Area 2018 are not foreseen funds for its complete rehabilitation. In expert assessments, by the way, we have commented, we are talking about almost 20 million. lv. In our previous meetings, I even remember some similar meeting in my office. I will not list back in time, as these were palliative measures which are related to the repairs of individual sections which have not led to almost no improvement of the road section in 2016 - 2017 - I will only tell you that a programme for ongoing repairs and maintenance in February this year of the compromised sections has been made patching of the pavement with a cold asphalt mixture. These palliative measures, which we explain, that we must put an end to them after the increase of resources after the introduction of the toll. However, after improving the weather situation, what is good and I will respond to you really absolutely responsibly, perhaps even in April, as we are currently preparing the technology project for about 15 days, repair activities will be carried out along the entire length of the section between Tsarevo and Malko Tarnovo. lv. In the case of an estimate of 3 million. lv. We'll give 200,000 more. lv. for securing the most critical heavy stretches as early as 2018. That is, we are doing repairs this year in the heavyest stretches, we are mending the entire section of the road along, as within a seven-mile radius, in the heavyest, and we are doing complete rehabilitation. Meanwhile, we are designing, coordinating the project and life and health next year we will start with the full rehabilitation of these 40 km of the precinct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you very much for the specific answer both on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of me. For us this particularity is extremely important because we have already talked about this repair, but we do get specific information on two main lines, I would say. We are aware of how serious your responsibility is because you are responsible not only for these important 56 km, but for another 20 thousand, if I am not mistaken as the Republican road network includes. As you pointed out yourself, it is about one of the most backward regions and its revival is part of our cause. Personally, I am extremely pleased that a specific deadline has been set for urgent repairs, and this is only the first part. As far as I have written from your reply, it is about entering the technique of the section in question within a few weeks, and this urgent repair will include around and over 3 million. lv. It is about really dealing with the difficult situation, which will allow in the summer of 2018 along the Tsarevo section to travel peacefully. However, it is more important to me the answer you gave to the other part of the question, which concerns full rehabilitation. The fact that the technical project will be carried out and completed this year and is expected with all these necessary steps in next year 2019 the full rehabilitation of the road with an estimated value of around 20 million will be included in the budget. I thank you and I would like to assure you that we will monitor what is happening along this section as regards the renovation that is due in the spring and we hope that the quality of this 3 million-dollar repair will be really high so that the road can perform its functions until the time comes for full rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Secretary? No douche. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Georgi Gokov he is about the need for an extension of the 6km connection of Stara Zagora with the highway of Trakia. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I am asking you an extremely important question for the Stara Zagoras This is explained because this issue excites Stara Zagora people from the distant 2005 years 2006 because Stara Zagora's approaches to the motorway are key to the development of transport and through them the economic ties of the region. Currently, according to the Agency, the road infrastructure "Stara Zagora" has four links with the highway. At 174th kilometer Chirpan-west, at 184th kilometer Chirpan-east, at 208th kilometer Stara Zagora, at 240th kilometer Nova Zagora. According to Stara Zagoras, however, they do not have any normal connection to the highway. This claim is based on the fact that the Chirpan connection is located 50 km from the city and next to it there is no normal road speed, but is passed on a third-class road network through Chirpan and two villages Rakitnitsa and Bogomilovo. The connection by road node Freedom is located 25 kilometers from the city and there is no normal road speed, but is passed on a third-class road network through two villages - Rakitnitsa and Bogomilovo. The connection through Nova Zagora road node is located more than 40 km from the city. Next to it there is no normal speed road, and it is passed along a third-class road network the six-km connection between Stara Zagora, the airport and Trakia Motorway. The connection Stara Zagora "Dimitrovgrad" is perhaps the only relatively normal one, but the road is a two-way road, not a speed road and in peak moments these six kilometers pass not in ten minutes, but in more than twenty minutes. This is a prerequisite for tension among drivers of vehicles and is a prerequisite for road accidents. In addition, there are aggravating circumstances and I can tell them if there is time left, but please answer the following questions: is there a vision for the construction of at least one more, second normal approach of Stara Zagora to Trakia Motorway? When will the project be implemented to expand the existing single connection of the city to the highway and turn it into a speeding road? It is true that there are urgent and urgent repairs, it is true that the path E-79 has lunar craters, but on the highways is the same Sorry about the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer. You are prepared for this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u163	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I am prepared for this matter. Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for your inaction charge. I can accept it in a personal capacity, but it is not always about results. The question is what results will we give the public so that the questions to you in your receptions will decrease, and you as a citizen of Stara Zagora, a resident of Stara Zagora, will be really more relaxed. E-79 craters?! There were quite serious holes to just say what you finally conceived in your question were refilled in the palatial mending technique, which really does not give a clear solution, but we have launched the tender for the construction of 34 km of the speed road along this path, so we really do not do nothing, be sure. On the subject you asked me about. In the investment intentions of the Railway Infrastructure Agency there is no new connection for the town of Stara Zagora with the highway of Trakia and I have answered such a question before. For the existing section of the Republican road 1.5 between Stara Zagora and Trakia Motorway, about 5 km long, which is currently the most direct connection of the city with the highway route, there was a technical project available in 2008. The project provides for double-up. You also asked it as a question on an existing route of road 1.5 in order to achieve the G-20 gauge, i.e. two lanes of movement in a direction that divides the strip in the middle and two banquets from both sides. A reconstruction of the affected engineering networks is also envisaged. Since 2013, by order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, a detailed development plan of the route has been approved and in 2014 are estranged properties and parts of private property affecting the movement of the detailed development plot. The determined amounts for the compensation of land properties are provided for in the account of the district governor of Stara Zagora and API have acquired ownership of parts of the property, that is to say we have completed the estrangement procedures. In view of the changes in the regulatory base in recent years as regards the requirements for restricted road systems for the use of bitumen to the horizontal marking and vertical warning to drainage and others, an update of the work design currently being carried out should be carried out in 2008. I was alerted to the cases, and this case concerns already the economic and economic parameters and the transformation of Stara Zagora really into an industrial and business area that deserves, as a second center perhaps on the Lower Thracian low, so an update is currently taking place. According to a preliminary assessment there may be more accurate information at the end of May when the update of the project itself will be ready and the realization of the site is in the order of 25 million. BGN, including value added tax. I mentioned that the value would be specified in May and that would be a virgin price. You know that it always falls after public procurement, and in some sites such as "Hemus" by even 40% of the price paid. Due to the lack of financial resources and the fact that in 2018 the technical project will be updated, it is good that we are done here with absolutely all the plotted alienation procedures and all those heavy procedures that generally delay the realization of the investment intention. In 2018, we will issue a construction permit for the site and I make a commitment from this tribune that in 2019 it will be included in the Agency's budget programme. After removing the building permit, we will decide how appropriate it is to start with the procedure under the Public Procurement Act, as we do with other objects to save time. And in 2019, after securing the resource, which I make as a commitment from this tribune, to start with the real activities, after respectively the weather conditions at the beginning of the construction season in 2019 allow construction itself. It's in general terms. We are trying with and without this insufficient budget to carry out repairs, to maintain the current route of the fivekm stretch, we are putting on an annual basis several tens of thousands of leva under the current renovation, but its expansion will give Stara Zagora really that opportunity for economic, economic and demographic development that the city and the district deserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, first of all, let me begin with a clarification: not that you are not idle, but I have not accused you of inaction, because I have told you and now I am going to read it: "You should be aware that the Old Zagoras are waiting, and if you do nothing, you will not be forgiven. I am now reading to you something else: "To build a second approach of Stara Zagora to the highway "Trakia" will have a separate project in 2011. It will be seen as a separate site so as not to stop the construction of the autobana. "These are the words of the then Minister Plevneliev in Stara Zagora in August 2008. This person, apart from the ministerial mandate, passed a presidential mandate for five years, has no quick connection, there is no second link, there is a wild populism. That's why, Minister, I can move on. Plevneliev's words from that period: The necessary funds are to be provided for in the programmes of the Railway Infrastructure Agency for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012.......................................................................................... Therefore, Minister, it is important for me and for Stara Zagoras to say: Stara Zagora there will be a double road from the airport to the connection Dimitrovgrad You say it, just to know when it will be, because from 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 and now we are 2018, but there is no other connection. It is also important for Stara Zagoras to say once and for all: will there be a second approach of the town of Stara Zagora to the highway? Get out on that stand and tell it to the Stara Zagoras. One city such as Stara Zagora, despite economic development, although the economic minister is talking about setting up Stara Zagora Airport as an industrial zone and another industrial zone - Zagora - or what will it be called, another in the old place of the Aztator plant, third in the village of Edi-what is it, and suddenly this city is left with one approach. Plovdiv, I think there are three or four exits, Chirpan has two approaches, and Stara Zagora has one, and it is not quality. So on what date will the Old Zagoras have a double road and will they have a second approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, if you are an oracle, you can hardly predict an exact date after three years So as responsible people, I tell you what we do and the commitments we make will be done. For a second approach, I have now mentioned very clearly and specifically that the Road Infrastructure Agency is not predicting. Such are the terms and opportunities of the budget.. does not foresee. The Agency provides for an extension of the existing approach in the G20 four-band gauge. We have another approach, and we know very well that it is much more direct than the one we are talking about 20 km before the current approach, it goes along a republican road with not so good transport qualities, it is also rehabilitating it. But what I make as a commitment is that 2020 will have such an approach. It's hard to tell if it's April or May. If everything goes well as an award procedure, we will build it in 2019 within not more than 9 months. The budget will be provided for next year, I mentioned, this year we will finish the process of processing the technical project. We have alienations, I mentioned a few moments ago, we are working on them, on the plot plans, on alienations from 2013, 2014 and 2015, we are processing this year the project, we are taking out a construction permit and starting with the tender procedure. In 2019, life and health, at this time we will start with the realization of the site, 9 - 10 months, and you probably know why the time limits are conditional. Even in these foster homes you can explain to Bulgarian citizenship, which is really impatient, because back in the years many promises have been taken not only to Stara Zagoras, but to Vrachans, to hunters and to all others. For President Plevneliev I will not lawyer up, but such were perhaps the conditions at the moment, such were the budget options and the site was not realized for a number of reasons. I tell you what is realistic about which I make a commitment, which, by the way, will really turn Stara Zagora with industrial zones.. Don't do so with neglect really, as the industrial zone at the moment, if we are talking about Stara Zagora airport, is regulated as a property and we have a detailed development plan that is due to be approved within a few days, and is indeed a potential for economic development. There is provided funding from the Ministry of Economy for its realization a huge potential for development not only of Stara Zagora, but also of neighbouring municipalities. We see what happened in Plovdiv. The fact is, this commitment I'm making, I'm going to pursue it and realize it. Life and health, my heirs too, if by then there is another minister, to continue the commitments I have made. Everything that depends on me at present, I mentioned. No later than May, a work project, a construction permit within June, come on, let's say, the beginning of July we start the tender procedure. By this time next year there will be an elected contractor, and the construction itself is the easy process. I have always said that the procedures are much heavier than the construction itself, and together with you we will monitor the quality of the construction activities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u168	Thank you, dear Minister. I hope you're happy with the answer, Mr. Gokov. Then we'll continue to discuss it with you. We move on to the next question by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Petrov, Diana Savateva, Asya Peeva, Ivan Valkov and Galya Vasileva and it is about the stage of implementation of the tour of the town of Pomorie. Who's gonna ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The construction of a four-band road between Burgas and the largest Black Sea resort Sunny Beach is of crucial importance for the development of summer tourism. At this time part of the route is ready and hard work is being done on the section of Pomorie.. Aheloy, as well as the so-called tour of Aheloy. However, construction activities have not yet started along Pomorie's tour, a stretch of approximately 5.9 km from the 1.9 Sunny Beach... Pomorie from km 217 to km 222 plus 849. In order to have a real effect the extension of the road must cover the entire route from Burgas to Sunny Beach. On 15 August 2017, the Road Infrastructure Agency signed a contract with an elected contractor for the construction of Pomorie's tour, but due to an appeal the finalisation of the contract has been delayed for a third year. The aim of the project is to provide a good transport connection between the district town, Burgas airport and Sunny Beach. During the summer season this is one of the busiest Bulgarian roads, taking over traffic, comparable to that of the highway. I would like to point out for correctness that only at Burgas Airport during the summer period are processed about 3 million passengers, which are respectively potential tourist users.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u170	Can a Quaestor come to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u171	With the full range of the route 1.9 Burgas "Sunny Beach" and meeting with the companies performers we carried out, I and my fellow MPs from GERB Burgas, in January it became clear that the work on the fivekm stretch between Pomorie and Aheloy and the construction of Aheloy's tour are progressing, and the two lots will be released for movement early at the beginning of the active tourist summer season this year. But the traffic along road 1.9 Burgas "Sunny Beach" will be completely relieved when the tour of the town of Pomorie is built in full. My question in this regard is as follows: what is the progress in the construction of the town of Pomorie, and what are the deadlines for its implementation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u172	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, Republican Road 1.9 Sunny Beach Pomorie is extremely important for the Burgas region. This morning Atanasov was in a TV studio. Half his participation was to comment on the progress of the road. During the existing section to the town of Pomorie, intensive traffic is going on year round, and in the summer months the growing tourist flow further makes it difficult to move. As with you, we have commented 3 hours from Sofia to Burgas, if you respect the restrictions on the highway, and 2 hours from Sunny Beach to Burgas.. absolutely inadequate as a state policy for the development of a quality tourist product on the southern Black Sea coast. The purpose of the site we are discussing is by building the tour of the town of Pomorie with a design length of 5 km 840 m is to take transit traffic out of the city, to be taken out of the city, which will lead to increased road safety, speed, comfort of travel and improvement of the quality of the overall tourism product, an inextricable part of which is also the good transport accessibility of the individual resorts on our southern Black Sea coast. You mentioned it correctly. Very quickly and within time; I know that you have done inspections several times, even in January; in these severe weather conditions, mainly associated with heavy rains and heavy conditions and soil tempering, the builders, following their linear schedule, work so that at the latest in mid-June we have completed both sites: Pomorie Specifically for Pomorie's tour. The tour of the city will pass west from the municipal center, in the peripheral part of the city, the beginning of the section of km 217 on road 1.9 before the town of Pomorie in the direction of Nessebar, and its end is before the inclusion in road 1.9 to km 229+849 in the direction of Burgas. The site is included in the programme for new construction for 2018 and will be built with funds from the Republican budget. The API has chosen and concluded contracts for the implementation of the SMR... construction and repair activities, for the construction supervision after a public procurement contract has been announced on both subjects. Here we are done with the procedures under the Public Procurement Act. At present, by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 29 of 19 January 2018, the alienations for state need are being treated, that is to say, we have pushed very hard our efforts at alienation. The estrangement act shall be communicated individually to the interested parties under the order of art. 34b, para. 2 of the State Property Act and in accordance with the APC. So far, there have been a few complaints made by property owners. This process, in general, slows down implementation, but we must ensure that, despite the delay, the protection of property rights of the affected owners. By the end of June on all schedules, following the practice of administrative courts in ruling on estrangement procedures in disputes of citizens, we expect by analogy with previous ones by the end of June to conclude the estrangement procedure. At the end of June, at the latest the beginning of July is the realistic schedule, if we are optimistic, we can also talk about May, immediately afterwards start with the construction permit Here we will not choose yet a contractor of construction or supervision. We're done with the alienation, we're getting construction clearance, and we're gonna start right away. The good news is we can work in the summer season. The new route does not affect the old one in any way. Only 4-5% of the linear length overlaps old with a new track, but within the summer season we will be able to work. Let us end the alienations so that the tour of Pomorie will be ready in the spring of 2019 so that in the summer of 2019 we can have an absolutely ready connection between Burgas and Sunny Beach. This summer I mentioned Aheloi's tour, and the Aheloi section of Pomorie will be ready. We are currently completing the estrangement procedures with everyone else on the northern perimeter of Burgas, so that all traffic from the highway to Sunny Beach can be taken out and not pass through the city or into settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I don't have a supplementary question because you were very precise and correct in the answer. You really gave hope to the whole region, to the whole tourist industry. I will allow myself to thank you on behalf of the tourism industry and all residents in the region really in the foreseeable, short term to have a complete completed route. I would just like to point out that this road is important both for road accidents and for the development of the entire tourism business, which is a major part of the formation of the country's gross domestic product. Once again, I would like to thank you, as well as for the personal commitment of the Prime Minister and the entire government, for building this section. I know that for you, and it should be, the whole road infrastructure in the country is important, but this really is a priority road. Just to be correct, I would like to point out that the idea of this project for this time is over 40 years old. Thank you for your personal commitment and that, within the next summer season, with the completion of these two sections of Pomorie, Aheloy and Aheloy's tour of Aheloy this summer, I very much hope that the problems of congestion will be solved and that for the next summer tourist season 2019 we have an absolutely complete path along these settlements. Mostly because of what I said, that Burgas Airport has more than 3 million. treated passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u176	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Secretary? You don't have an ass. The next question is from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev and it is about the repair of the road infrastructure of the highway. Mr. Bonev, if you'd like to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the highway is part of the European Transport Corridor No. 4 in its part Vidin The motorway has a gauge of 29 m, with two lanes of 11.5 m, with two active lanes and an emergency lane. The track connects the North Rainbow of the Crossroads of the town. Sofia with road node Daskalovo near Pernik, bypassing the villages Malo and Golyamo Buchino. The total length of the track is 20 km. The highway was officially opened on 15 May 2011. The total value of the project for the construction of the highway was 185 million. Euros. One hundred and eighty-five million euros! In the period from 2012 to the end of April 2017, we are talking about a highway of 8 million. 115,000. BGN 317. VAT, of which 339 thousand were paid for the highway facilities. BGN 352. My question to you, Minister, is as follows: what funds have been spent on repair activities of the highway in 2017? What are they intended for 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u178	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, this is the second time we have commented on the topic "Lulyn" - the deadlines. I stated and not only stated, there is such a fairy tale: Don't look at me, look at what I'm doing! One of the topics that we commented on in your previous question was precisely about the guarantee deadlines on the highway and which activities are covered by the guarantee and which are not, but also the design itself. One poor project, as is the highway, Lüline. If we have to take back time, leads to activities that were not part of the project, they were implemented, the highway was implemented. Euros, huge, colossal resources, the highway is executed in heavy mountain and semi-mountain terrain. I remind you that such roads, for example, next to the Tsank Stone, and a number of others, as well as the highway, are unbuilt landslides. It has really been accepted with problems "You understand a lot better than many other colleagues, including most of all by me theme "Spills and collapses." We know how it was adopted and how it was designed at the very beginning of the highway. Specifically on the subject. In 2017, a total of 2 million were spent on ongoing repair and maintenance of the motorway. 433 thousand. 911 BGN. with VAT. Of that, one million. 437 thousand. BGN 513. with VAT are invested in the implementation of repair works and 996 thousand. £398. VAT is spent on winter maintenance of the motorway. Winter maintenance has been carried out within those means. The construction works on the pavement were also included in these activities. Dismantling and installing new containment systems do not enter into the warranty. There is restoration of fence networks, drainage events, delivery and installation of road signs, laying of horizontal marking, maintenance of electrical systems, tunnels, road nodes, cleaning and maintenance of the dilation joints of bridge facilities, cleaning of landslides, collapses, cutting and cutting grasses and cutting shrubs. In the budget of the API for 2018, the repair activities of the motorway will be awarded according to the Agency's available budget. In addition, opportunities will be sought to secure targeted funding from the state budget under a decree of the Council of Ministers. Only by expertise at present, we know what the situation is, maybe afterwards I'll have the opportunity to mention a few landslides that are currently being activated, we even closed the entire tape the other day. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Bonev]] Yes, I was on the highway yesterday, closing the entire tape between the first and the second tunnel in the direction of Sofia, so that we do not cause a traffic accident and endanger the lives of the passing ones, as the descent was almost 7 km + 500 - 600 m to the dividing line, the dividing guard. Apart from that, two weeks ago, there was an Earth mass collapse where rock pieces entered the oncoming lane. There, with trucks, with mobile machinery on the highway, we temporarily limited the fall of a rock mass to where we brought it. Just to overcome these landslides and collapses, it is a good thing that they are not very deep and very large as a square and volume, more than 6 million are needed. Three hundred thousand. lv. with VAT for 2018. I delayed, but maybe I'll have a chance to talk a little bit more in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the reality is this. As of now, part of the highway is closed. It is closed due to the fact that there are two active landslides: km 7+500 and km 8+800, both landslides on the highway road and create an immediate and real danger to the life and health of travelers. It is necessary to take urgent and urgent measures from APIs. In order not to be naked about the actual state of the motorway "Lyulin" and the quality of the construction works, I will quote the following facts: "Slachishte" blocked the highway "Lyulin" "3 January 2013" Slatchishte is blocking the highway of Lyulin. 1 April 2015 Scaly fell on the highway of Lyulin. In the direction of Pernik and blocked the movement. A landslide of stones stops the movement of the highway. "Slachishte" blocked the highway "Lyulin" "13 August 2017" Slatchishte makes it difficult to move on the highway "Lyulin" and is closed at the present time "Slatchishte" 7 March 2018. These are the facts they say, Mr. Minister, that for a guarantee facility worth 400 million. lv. to Bulgarian and European taxpayers, for this year alone another 2 million have been spent. 430,000. lv. repair due to poor performance of the site. Mr. Minister, for the state of the highway, it will once again be nature's fault! Insurmountable forces are constantly preventing the Bulgarian authorities from dealing with the problems of the highway. What is happening on the highway today is the result of the well-known for years of carelessness, butaphory, idleness and transfer of responsibility. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to point out that cutting ribbons is too expensive for the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[(Replicates from Minister Nikolay Nenchev and from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u182	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you are, Minister, you can justify the international situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bonev! In no way in time. Of course hydroclimatic, geological conditions are like that, but I'm going to turn back time without acquittal. I'm gonna talk about this other shithead. Do we remember when the highway was designed? Do we remember when it was designed? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, no, do we remember when the highway was being designed and when construction was being carried out on a corrupt project in which there were in no way measures related to strengthening the landslide processes along the highway? Do we remember the seventh and eighth year? Do we remember these years and how projects were awarded for hundreds of millions? We all remember very well. I'm younger than you, but I remember too. Well, look how we're picking the fruit, and it's the very bitter fruit right now out of one of the no-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go. And if you say that we should not be putting back activities to strengthen the landslides on the road, which, again, I say, this has no interest in the development of these poor, these unacceptable insane projects. We all remember the years when such activities were assigned. I mentioned both of them on the other objects, and these fruits will be harvested. Yes, the fact is that at the moment we have to invest these funds in order to make the crossing of the highway unhindered and to protect the safety and health of people. We have to put it in! I won't speak ironically, but you tried to pluck our eyes out, and you wrote our eyebrows out. We are currently paying for the projects which, over time, other governments from 2007 and 2008 have entrusted them in this insane way. I thought we weren't supposed to make excuses. I don't want to justify ourselves to nature or anything backwards, but the facts are facts. Facts are facts! Yes, we have mentioned that we will continue on the basis of the resource available to carry out these repairs. Unfortunately, for the highway to have it, we have to do it. That's how it's designed, that's how it's built, that's how it's bet at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from the MP Vesela Lecheva to Minister Nankov. It is about the main repair of the plumbing network in Veliko Tarnovo. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, with a decision of the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality a procedure for carrying out construction works on the project for authentic urban environment under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" was opened. The procedure has ended with contracts concluded under the defined lots. It's about replacing the street flooring to repair and repair the sidewalks. At the start of the awarded construction was received a warning letter from "Vik sewerage" Ltd. - Veliko Tarnovo, which states that in most of the plumbing network corrosion is significant, in some places is located extremely shallow and very immediately under the pavement. It is expressed the opinion to undertake repairs on a technical project made by the company. A warning has also been made that if the proposed repairs are not carried out, there is a real risk of compromising the pavement and, above all, a risk related to people's lives and health, damage to the environment and so on. For this purpose, funding from the state budget is requested for urgent and urgent emergency repair of the plumbing network. The estimated value of the renovation is 4 million. 665 thousand. lv. without VAT. I will not dwell on that fact. I will not dwell on the fact that the company designated as a contractor has given in its offer only seven leva lower than the estimated one. There are also enough dubious coincidences here, but more importantly, how will the project be implemented, will it be necessary to repeat repairs. Because we're witnessing how on newly renovated streets, highways, roads are starting to rebuild. And this is at the expense of the increasingly thin pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer. My concern and concern is mostly about a signal that came to me and the information about gross violations of regulations. Here, look, I'll show her pictures. [[Shows.]] I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u186	I'm just gonna ask you, Mrs. Lecheva, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u187	And my question to you is this: has Regulation No 8 been complied with for rules and regulations for the implementation of technical conduits and facilities? Have you issued permission to deviate from the regulations of the Ordinance? What checks and what time will be undertaken?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works financed major renovations of the existing plumbing network in the old part of Veliko Tarnovo, in connection with the implementation of the project Where we build with a European resource overpowering infrastructure, we improve, as in this case, there to provide, as far as we can, financial resources to municipalities to replace the underground infrastructure, if they fail to replace it with their own funds. In the case of the seven leva, contracting entity, you know who it is, so please, not to me. At the local level you will ask why is this price, why is this artist chosen? We have made it possible to secure the financial resources. At the end of last year, we signed two agreements with the municipality for a total of 288 thousand. BGN 676. Almost one million leva. This year we signed another agreement covering the need of the municipality to implement all the sites, not to list them, on all the streets referred to and claimed by them to total just over four million leva, as you mentioned. This year we signed a 3 million-dollar agreement. And 100,000. lv. an approximate value. Again, don't list all the streets. Regarding the repair itself, we are talking about emergency repairs, we are not talking about reconstruction, we are not talking about new construction, we are talking about hitting the hypothesis of Regulation No 8. For the implementation of those activities financed under those agreements, the municipality shall assume full responsibility for the lawful, qualitative and temporary implementation of the sites corresponding to the regulatory framework and the requirements of the approved projects. In case of failure to comply with the objectives of the projects or detected violations of the target use of the funds provided by the municipality in the same one, such is the agreement that we conclude, we protect respectively the thin pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer, as you have expressed yourself, and the budget of the Ministry and of the whole country. The funds are being reimbursed in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I mentioned under what conditions if we have a failure to comply with conditions and violations of the target use of the funds. No such infringements have been identified at the time when the said project was implemented and this is also confirmed in the Constitutional Protocol drawn up in connection with a preliminary examination ordered by me. On 20 March 2018, the protocol was introduced into the Ministry of Interior by the Regional Directorate for National Construction Control. The inspection was carried out at the site of the construction "Main repair of an existing plumbing network" on the abovementioned streets in Veliko Tarnovo, located in the old urban part of the village. The verification showed that the construction is being carried out in compliance with the regulations and requirements of the approved projects, which are also agreed with the local water operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I cannot be pleased with your answer because what I have shown as visual material and these photos are really rude violations of the Bulgarian standards regarding the implementation and implementation of the plumbing system in Bulgaria. Rough violation of Bulgarian standards! After all, you, as a minister and as a minister responsible for implementing Regulation No 8, must carry out a thorough inspection to ensure the quality of the implementation of the repair activities, as you say, in order to ensure that the funds that are given each year by the Bulgarian taxpayers for the continuous repairs in which they live. It is about the pride of the Bulgarian state "Old capital," where we know all cultural and historical heritage is the focus of millions, tens of thousands of visitors and tourists, but in the end it should also be about the comfort and lifestyle of the Turnovo residents.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, I will provide you with the constant protocol of the inspection of the National Construction Control Directorate. You are absolutely right "The Old Capital," unique as parameters "I am convinced and as sustainability and effect for Turnovtsi, for the guests of the Tarnovo project "Operational Program" "Regions in growth" 2014 " 2020" is a really unique project. The state adequately, I repeat, has provided funding under certain rules, of course, for the replacement of the underground infrastructure Everything else is speculation and political play with people's fears, as at the moment the competent authorities will leave the constant protocol to the colleagues of the National Building Control Directorate, and the VKV Veliko Tarnovo, have also participated in the inspection. These are competent institutions, they ensure that repair activities, except as quality, are carried out according to all regulations currently adopted in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Stefan Burgeev and is about the status of the third-class road III-305 of the Republican road network in the section passing through the village of Sadovets, Dolni Dubnik municipality. Mr. Burgeev, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Nankov, at the exit from the village of Sadovets, Dolni Dubnik Municipality, Pleven District, towards the village of Uglen again there is a huge fall of the lane for movement. The relevant institutions responsible for the condition of the road have been repeatedly alerted. The repairs carried out so far have not given the necessary long-term result to end this landslide process and there are currently about three meters in depth there is a landslide itself. My question to you is: what measures will be taken so that cars can safely and safely pass light and heavy goods vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u196	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, after consulting the register of landslides in the Republic of Bulgaria, it was found that a landslide process of Republican road III-305 at km 19 plus 780 was registered in 1975. The landslide is periodically active with an area of just over 5 acres, a width of 110 m, a length of almost 50 m and affects urbanised territory Republican road III-305 Krushovitsa In 2015, damage was found to be on the pavement of the Republican road in this area. Since then, cracks have been formed periodically and the pavement has fallen. Regional Road Management Specialists Pleven, are systematically related to the condition of the section and measures are taken under its restraint. In November 2015, for example, excavation works, pouring and sealing with unsorted crushed stone, removal of the old deformed road pavement and laying asphalt concrete layers were carried out. In 2016, for example, we have flattening with asphalt layers in the execution of an excavation of up to three meters deep, pouring and sealing with unsorted crushed stone. Over 84 grand has been invested in the repairs. lv. In 2016 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Between March and July last year in the section of the road from km 12+000 to km 25+000, which includes the section through the village of Sadovets, about which you mentioned, on a current repair and maintenance activities were carried out at a total value of about 28 thousand. lv. with VAT. These include mending compromised areas on the pavement, aligning banquets, cutting bushes and the like. In October 2017, API provided additional funds of 51 thousand. lv. for renovation works on the flooring of the section of the village of Sadovets, including in the section affected by the landslide process, based on a question which you asked from the parliamentary tribune. Despite the activities you have mentioned, in 2015 on the restoration of the area, at the moment due to heavy rain and snow in the current winter season, there are again cracks in the pavement, as well as developing, even in places of 40 cm. The division has been alerted to proceed with caution. According to a preliminary expert assessment for the restoration of the flooring in the affected area, as well as for the removal of other available damage, subsidities, holes and so on, a minimum of 560 thousand are needed. lv. with VAT. After the winter maintenance of the Republican roads will be completed, measures will be taken to secure the area according to the available budgetary resources. At the moment, 1/3 of the API budget is provided and we will try to secure the rest by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers! Mr. Goranov, I am glad that you are also here and you have the opportunity to hear the question and the theme that the residents of this municipality are putting up. Dear Mr. Nankov, I admire that. You've paid attention to previous questions I've asked. You also note that there is a big problem there and will not be able to be solved by spending small amounts often. In the end, both you and we are aware that it is short-term and leads every spring to ambiguity of what will happen. This is an important artery that connects the Balkan with the Danube Plain. I hope and appeal to find once funds, but enough that in the long term can provide some normal peace. We haven't bloomed there in many ways anyway, and this is fundamental to both life and the movement of cargo and goods. I hope to take note and resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u200	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. A hole? You won't use it. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev about the state of road II-81 Sofia Here you go, Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We continue with the topic and the chant of questions about the state of the Republican road network in Bulgaria. This time, Mr. Nankov, I will take you to a region of Bulgaria. The Montana road, part of Republican road II-81, is in an extremely bad condition, is closer to a lunar landscape than any normal road connection. The situation in the Montana section is particularly difficult. Brusartsi, which section is potentially dangerous for the occurrence of road accidents and damage to cars. Our question to you is: do you also foresee when the repair of the road II-81, Montana section Lom, and in what volume of repairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u202	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. For your answer, Mr. Nankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Timchev, the section of road II-81 Montana is 41 km long in your question. The unit of the Republican Road was rehabilitated in the period 2007 - 2009, notice the years, with the funds being provided under the PHARE Programme TGS, Bulgaria - Romania. The value of implementation of the construction works is more than 13 million. BGN, however, to rehabilitate it 2007 - 2009. The rehabilitation improved the infrastructure, provided safe and comfortable conditions of movement. To date, the condition of the segment is satisfactory, according to our qualification in average operating condition, neither good nor bad. There are minimal problems on the pavement and subsidence at the base of the road due to intensive heavy traffic. The Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to rehabilitate the compromised sites on the pavement in April this year. As your question concerns the Montana section of Brusartsi, the opinion of the experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u204	Do Lom.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u205	To Lom, but we're covering the Montana Brusartsi precinct. ...is that the comments regarding the condition of the road concern the section of the third-class road network in the direction................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Indeed, the state of these sections that I have pointed out is tragic not to say in a very bad state. On the road III-112, Montana "Brusartsi" the movement of vehicles over 12 tonnes is limited by a period until 31 March this year. In October and December 2017, a cold patching of road pavement was carried out in order to ensure passability. However, the activities carried out do not result in any lasting effect, simply increase the safety of the winter season, nothing more. In view of the poor performance, the section from Montana to Brusartsi, which I mentioned, is included in Lot 18, which has a total length of almost 30 km. and 800 m under Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and is entirely on the territory of Montana region. We have secured funding, a grant contract has been concluded for the site worth just over 15 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 493 thousand. lv. guaranteed European funding and, of course, national co-financing. The value of the construction works from the value of the entire contract is 14 million. $700,000. lv. with VAT. Construction is about to start within the next two weeks, depending on the metrological conditions. The road division III-112 is a direct link between the settlements of Northwestern Bulgaria and Corridor No 4 Vidin. Montana and indirect connection with Corridor No 7, namely the Danube River, via road II-11 to the port of Lom and the ferry. Rehabilitation provides: restoration of pavement and road body in areas with insufficient wearability, cold recycling, laying of basic and wearing asphalt layers along the entire length of the section, improving drainage, rehabilitation of five large facilities, performance of new vertical signalling and horizontal marking. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Do not read what this rehabilitation will lead to as economic benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u206	In the back, maybe you'll finish. Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Timchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Nankov, for the so-called clarification concerning the number of this road - part of the Republican road. It's nice to see you in this part of the country, in the Northwestern region. I am glad that the funds are provided for its renovation and this will enable the revival of this poorest region not only in Bulgaria but also in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Will there be a hole, Minister? No. We should thank Minister Nankov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. The first question is from the MP Georgi Gokov on the State Fund for Guarantee and Sustainability of the State Pension System. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, the State Fund is serious about ensuring the sustainability of the state pension system, or as it is more popularly known as the Silver Fund. It was established by the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2006, and at the end of 2008 the National Assembly adopted a law on it and in its implementation was entrusted to the Minister of Finance to manage the fund. The purpose of its creation is to support and ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. For now, I will not comment on the extent to which the fund fulfils its objectives. My question here is about the funds accumulated in it. It's about 2.8 billion. lv. and must complement the basic pensions of the Bulgarians when necessary. They are held on a deposit in BNB, which is renewed every year, but for the last 5 years the interest rate has been zero and in practice since 2012 there has been no increase in funds in the Fund. At the end of last year, information appeared that for 2017 a negative interest rate was defined or rather agreed on minus 10%. This basically means that for the deposit of the 2.8 billion. lv. From the Fund, the Central Bank will hold 0.1%, or about 2.8 million. lv. Annually. In the creation of the Silver Fund, the idea is to constantly include funds from privatisation, concession, the funds to be increased by investing with a clearly established strategy, but in recent years the privatisation subsided, the government of GERB began to divert the revenues from privatisation and concessions, and finally negative interest on the deposit in BNB. A little over a year in the Silver Fund also entered the contributions from the second pension of the people who transferred their insurance from private pension funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u210	Your question, Mr. Gokov, time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u211	Next are the questions: what is the general state of the Fund nearly 13 years after its creation? Does it help and guarantee the sustainability of the state pension system in this state? How many funds have been received by the Fund in 2017 from privatisations, concessions, fines related to the privatisation process, from a change in the insurance from the Universal Fund to the State Fund of Pensions? How much money has come from the budget surplus? What is the loss of the Fund due to negative interest rates? When will a strategy for investing the funds from the Silver Fund be drawn up and adopted to increase them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For an answer, Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I have long observed the Fund for Guarantee and Sustainability of the State Pension System. By the way, one Saturday of 2006, I came up with the name of the Fund. In answer to your question, the total cash resource in the Fund's account is 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of The question: whether the Fund supports and guarantees the sustainability of the state pension system in this state must be examined in a complex manner, since there is no single answer. It is mainly related to policy and future measures to curb the deterioration of the balance of state social security. The long-term budget forecast for the development of the pension system in the period 1917 shows that it will remain in deficit throughout the period, with all options and assumptions for the choice of insurance between the first pillar and the second pillar presented in the Convertive Programme of Bulgaria 2017 - 2020. In the first few years of the forecast period, the deficit of the DVO budget improved, reaching its lowest levels of around 3.9 per cent of GDP in the period around 2025, and in the period 2017 the deficit is contained at levels below 5% of GDP, which is mainly due to the 2016 package of measures that have a stabilizing impact on the state social security system. For that period, the improvement of the deficit is mainly due to three factors: increase in the amount of the contribution to the Fund 69 CSR with 20 percentage points, and the introduction of stricter conditions for access to pensions, namely increasing the required ages and insurance service to acquire pension rights for all categories. While maintaining the current assumptions for demographic, economic and pension insurance indicators is expected to deteriorate the balance sheet of the DEA after 2040, and in the period 2050-2060 the forecasts are to reach the highest value of about 6,8% of GDP, and pension expenditure in this period will reach 11.7.. 11.8 per cent of gross domestic product, i.e. in the long term factors such as increased average life expectancy, ageing and decrease the number of insured persons begin to have an increasing impact and to test the financial sustainability of the state pension system. Given the actuarial forecast, it can be said that it is not effective and appropriate to set aside a budget resource in significant amounts in favour of the Silver Fund and its use in the period after 2040 when a higher budget deficit is expected. This means inefficient blocking of budgetary resources and, at the same time, a possible need to use a borrowing resource to finance debt payments and cover the need to finance the budget. The accumulated resource appears to be a buffer and here is the greatest meaning and benefit of the Fund. The Fund can support the DEA budget with about three or four monthly pension payments in the event of an unforeseen or crisis situation in the country. In response to the second question, I inform you that in 2017 funds of EUR 127,67 million were transferred from the central budget. lv. On the third question, the negative interest paid on the Fund's fixed-term deposits for 2017 amounts to 2,6 million. BGN, but in accordance with the regulatory requirements it is at the expense of the central budget and does not reduce the resource of the Silver Fund. In answer to the last question, I would like to assure you that in applying the fund's assets so far and in the medium-term conservative approach are managed in compliance with the principles of reliability, liquidity and transparency in the form of a deposit in the Central Bank or other instruments in BNB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the long term, in the event of adverse development of market conditions, the analysis of the possibilities for more active management of the Fund's funds and diversification of investments will be based on an assessment of the level of risk, as well as an assessment of the possible net income in the event of a decline in investment management costs and other costs under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u214	Maybe in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u215	I'm ready to leave you the answer and we'll continue our reflection on the so-called Silver Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u217	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. I didn't expect anyone else to be the answer, because these numbers are generally known. The purpose of my question was to provoke you into figuring out how to activate this fund. It's not normal to stay close to 3 billion. lv. on a deposit that does not carry any income, but has to pay its negative interest on the state budget. This is something which is an obligation by law to draw up and adopt a strategy for investing the funds from the Silver Fund, it is good to do it at last on the tenth year. I hope you do. You said it was not justified for a greater resource than the budget to be put into this fund. I'm sure it is, but if it is, let's change the law. We have written in the Law that the money from privatisation should be included, from concessions, and 25% of the surplus in the budget, if any. You have a surplus budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u218	From the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u219	Yeah, from the state. Again, if there's no point in putting money in this fund, let's change the law, because some money is being diverted from concessions. I remember what is the proposal for, for example, the concession at Sofia airport.. the money to go to rescue BDZ. But there in this law it says they have to go to the Silver Fund. So if you want to do things like this, let's change it, you have a majority, change it, we'll explain why we changed it more. I hope I have listened to you very carefully that 2006 you have even invented the name of the Fund and you think you are. Come on, not as the father of the Fund, but that it is your birth. [[speaking indistinctly]] have a greater commitment than you have to this money. Because that money is yes, it is true that it will be enough for three or four months for pensions, they are no more, but somehow this fund, if paid more attention, can also bring money to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u221	Dear Mr. Gokov, everything you say is correct. Here, however, the issue is the philosophy of the emergence of such funds in historical terms, and my finding is that the creation of the Fund in 2006 pursued very different objectives. In order not to create a cause for further opposition, I will not quote them, but if you want, I can also quote why Fund was created then. It was designed to block the political pressure to spend the surplus, bringing it into this Fund. This was 2006, and similar funds were created in some countries, e.g. Belgium, at a time when some significant restructuring of state assets was planned. The meaning of such a Fund would have been if it had been created at the beginning of the transition, immediately in the 1990s, so that all the volume of resources related to privatisation could enter it and be able to obtain a critically large resource that would make sense to be managed. This fund also makes sense to exist when the state social security system is not a deficit. Since the creation of the Fund itself, aiming at reducing labour costs, we have reduced social security contributions consistently over the years and have ensured that the Social Security Fund will be a deficit. In this sense, maintaining a deficit in state social security and financing it with a loan resource, because the deficit is financed by a loan or privatisation, while keeping aside some blocked funds is somewhat unjustified in terms of the general logic of managing the state resource. I do not want to say that the Fund is pointless, but it can guarantee in the long term payment of pensions or support the financing of the deficit in state social security in a relatively limited aspect. We must bear in mind, and your question begins so that these are fiscal reserve funds. A risk management for them risks a loss of resources, something that I do not know which minister of finance or which management of the Fund would agree with a more risky and more selective management - to invest the funds of the Fund. The debate is great, if you like, we can make in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy a deeper debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on Bulgaria's policy for Bulgaria's accession to the Banking Union in the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, on the grounds of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 98 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I have submitted a question regarding Bulgaria's policy for Bulgaria's accession to the banking union in the European Union. Asking is about political consensus. During the National Security Advisory Council in June 2014, where the President announced that there was an understanding between political parties that public confidence in the banking system is a key condition for financial stability in the country and for the functioning of the economy. The decision of the Advisory Council is the Bulgarian National Bank to request verification by the European Banking Authority to assess the effectiveness of supervision of Bulgarian banks, providing for a legislative initiative to improve the effectiveness of banking supervision and the clear carrying of responsibility. Since 2014, there have been more than three years, almost four years and the effect of the decision of the Advisory Council for National Security is largely made available to the public, but I urge you to reaffirm the stability of the banking system in Bulgaria in relation to the stress tests and international participation of experts at European level. The decision then is to initiate by the Bulgarian National Bank, to address the European Banking Authority and to unite to be launched by the executive authority all this verification of the banking system. There is a full consensus between the political forces to immediately launch a procedure for Bulgaria's entry into the Single Banking Supervisory Mechanism of the European Union, such as this being a first step towards Bulgaria's accession to the European Banking Union. Please answer the question in this regard: what is Bulgaria's application policy and our accession to the banking union in the European Union? Within what time is the mechanisms of the Banking Union expected to be implemented, including the Single Banking Supervision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, I am in a hurry to answer that there should be no concerns about the banking system. She's well-capitalized enough. This was also shown by stress tests and assessment of the quality of the assets of the entire banking system in 2016. This was shown by the deescalation of macroeconomic imbalances, which was carried out by the European Commission last month. From excessive imbalances we have moved to imbalances. It's a very specific subject. I will allow you to know the mechanisms and the commitments the Republic of Bulgaria has with regard to the Banking Union. With the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, Bulgaria also assumed an obligation to join the Eurozone. The Member States of the European Union, which are not part of the Eurozone, are divided into two groups, those with contractual clauses for non-participation in the Eurozone, the so-called derogation. It includes the United Kingdom and Denmark and Bulgaria is in the second group of Member States with a derogation and are committed to joining the Eurozone when they meet the necessary criteria for membership. In the last decade, in response to the consequences of the sovereign crisis and the crisis in the banking system in the Eurozone, there have been serious changes. Many new mechanisms, structures and institutions were created. The creation of the Banking Union represents one of the biggest institutional changes. The banking union was established after 2013 and consists of two pillars "The Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism." The Single Supervisory Mechanism shall be based on Regulation 1024/2013 of 15 October of the same year and the Single Resolution Mechanism shall be based on Council Regulation 806/2014 of the Parliaments of July 2014. The banking union is developing the Eurozone. This means that by joining the Eurozone, we will automatically join the Banking Union as well. Therefore, the preparation and then accession to the Eurozone and the Banking Union are two processes that take place and end at the same time. This is the practice of other countries that joined the Eurozone in the period when there had already been a Banking Union. For example Latvia has been a member since 2014, and Lithuania has been a member since 2015. As is already publicly known, during the previous government, we created a Coordination Council for Bulgaria's preparation for membership in the Eurozone. Order No 168 of July 2015. This Council and the formed working group carried out an analysis of the readiness for accession. As is known, Bulgaria has excellent macroeconomic indicators with which we consistently meet four of the five criteria for joining the Eurozone. These are the criteria in the Maastricht Treaty of State debt, budget deficit, long-term interest rate, in the case of 10-year SCC in BGN, which for February 2018 is 0.9765%, indexing... Our average annual inflation according to the latest data for February 2018 is 1.32 percent, measured through the European harmonised index for consumer prices. At the same time, it is also necessary to fulfil the condition for membership of ERM-2 - the criterion for the exchange rate "at least two years' participation in ERM-2 with the fixed rate of BGN to the euro. Given that the 21st year currency board in Bulgaria is functioning, the fulfilment of this criterion should not be any problem, but it is a formal one that we have not fulfilled. The focus should focus on this if we want to meet the strategic goal of membership in the Eurozone. Membership in the Eurozone, respectively automatic accession to the Banking Union, necessarily requires prior membership of ERM-2 and continuation of the followed macroeconomic policy oriented towards stability, which would ensure that we continue to fulfil the macroeconomic criteria for subsequent membership in the Eurozone. We are actively working to join the ERM-2, which is the first step to proceed to the simultaneous, I stress the simultaneous membership of the Eurozone and the Banking Union, because you cannot be a member of the Banking Union without being a member of the Eurozone. That mechanism is different and we can talk about it further. However, given the confidentiality of the procedure and the market sensitivity, I would not like to share any more details, at least out of respect and the rules of our European partners and the European Central Bank, to which we want to join.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Iankov, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the two supplementary questions to you are the following and they are related to the concern in our society after the CCB case, and this concern will be a long time in our fellow citizens, to reaffirm the stability of the banking system and whether there is state support at present for any of the banks that have generated and announced profit for last year? And the second question is: do you foresee periodic stress tests of banks operating in Bulgaria in order to prove to our society that they are stable and there is no danger of cases like the case of Corporate Commercial Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u229	I would also like to assure you that, in addition to the stress tests and the review of the quality of assets, at the insistence of the Bulgarian government and the European Central Bank by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the so-called...........................of the effectiveness of the financial system..... where a special report from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank was prepared, with a focus on the capacity of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bulgarian National Bank. The program is called FSAT - Financial Sector Assessment Program, and is a specialized program of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which ended with recommendations - all of which have long been implemented by the government and the Bulgarian National Bank. They relate to the creation of liquid support mechanisms by the state, if necessary, to a number of other technical details, which are rather the subject of an internal organisation of supervision by the Bulgarian National Bank. I want to assure you that it's been a long way since then. In an appropriate format we could consult and comment with the Bulgarian National Bank these interests of yours to get acquainted in depth with the system. What I can assure you is that after the 2014 crisis and the bankruptcy of a Corporate Commercial Bank, which we have debated many times, whether it was an exact bank and how the corporate management model of the bank has affected its final results, that the capacity and quality of the banking supervision has been significantly improved. You know, we also have new members of the Board of Directors involved in this activity. I would like to assure you that I personally, as a finance minister, have no concerns about any financial institution, whether banking or non-banking in the Bulgarian state. Both supervisory authorities are in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. For your consideration, Mr. Yankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I will periodically ask you this question because the quoted decision by the Advisory Council for National Security is exactly in the period when Bulgarian citizens were stressed after the closure of the CCB and all subsequent actions on the bankruptcy of this bank. I believe that it is necessary for Bulgarian citizens to be calm about the blood system of the Bulgarian economy and to expect the Ministry of Finance, supporting with the public resources of the state, stimulating the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria, which will lead to major improvements in the standard of living. The big scourge for our society, the big problem in Bulgaria, what generates tension, is the deepening inequality between rich and those who cannot guarantee their lives. You know about the research of the unions, which showed that in the country a four-member family is supported by 2400 BGN. per month, in Sofia more than 3000 BGN. Your work is complex from the banking system, the financial markets to the economy, you personally and the government should be aimed at improving the life in Bulgaria, the lives of our fellow citizens, as the tensions created in our society will affect both the economy and the financial system, as it will pass through the political parties the attitude towards power. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, I pay attention to you that it is extremely important that positive information that is available in the Ministry of Finance is made available to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Question from the National Representative Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov on the financial decentralisation of municipalities. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u233	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, various plans have been working for about 15 years and various measures related to the financial decentralisation of the Bulgarian municipalities have been identified. It is hard to deny the fact that it is becoming harder for Bulgarian municipalities to provide about 80% of public services to citizens and businesses, with about 15% of national resources or with 3 from local taxes of all 100 leva. taxes collected of a Republican nature. To carry out their imposed role as a bystander in essential services for the European municipalities, such as education, public order, business environment, and to fulfil commitments of the central government with the money of the people of the municipalities. During this period, there has always been the possibility of providing municipal income sources with many options. It is time for municipalities to provide resources adequate to their responsibilities and to conduct real financial decentralisation. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the development of the Financial Decentralisation Strategy at the moment, are legislative changes planned to create an opportunity for additional revenue sources of municipalities, and when are real actions expected in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u235	Mrs. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will read what the experts have prepared for me, but financial decentralization is not an objective, it should be clearly related to what responsibilities are actually implemented by the Bulgarian municipalities. I dare say that from the point of view of the tax model, there is no mistake. Property is taxed in municipalities, income is taxed at headquarters level. From then on, we need to assess exactly what the responsibilities of the local authorities are. You quote that 80% of public services are found in municipalities. I do not know how you have determined that they are of this size, but for example all education, all social support, pension insurance, internal order and security are being provided financed by the state budget, Republican since 2014 no longer exists. What I want to tell you is that, with the current structure of the tax system, we are not planning a transfer through direct allocation of resources from the taxes collected by the central government for the benefit of local authorities. There is a very large deficit in terms of the size of local taxes and the way they are structured. This is where the mayors run out of responsibility. Given that elections are coming up soon, I don't believe they'll have the courage to do anything. I will remind you of the debate when the Ministry of Finance proposed the introduction of a voluntary, additional income tax on individuals, determined by municipalities and for their benefit, between zero and 2%. The municipalities did not ask for such a debate, provided that the discussion whether there would be such a tax at all was left to the local authorities. But still, from the period we're talking about, a lot has been done. In retrospect with regard to the increase of the own base of municipalities, by providing new revenue sources and increasing local powers transfer of state property, results should be recorded in the Constitution in 2007 and in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, allowing municipalities to determine the amount of local taxes within the limits set by the Law and the amount of local fees. By the way, it doesn't stop the municipalities from collecting more. Amendments and additions to the Law on Underground Treasures, the Law on concessions, the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast were adopted, which achieved an increase in municipal revenues from concession fees by extending the scope of municipal concessions and increasing revenues from state concessions of municipalities. The mechanism for the allocation of the target subsidy for capital expenditure has been updated since 2016 in order to achieve the greatest objectivity, transparency and effectiveness in the distribution of funds based on natural indicators that are relevant to the allocation mechanism for these funds by municipalities. In 2017, on a proposal from the municipalities for the first time, an opportunity was introduced through the annual laws on the state budget up to 50 percent of the target subsidy for capital expenditure to be able to be transformed into a targeted transfer to finance urgent and ongoing renovations of municipal roads and school network, which also alleviated the conditions and created prerequisites for an optimal allocation of the subsidy, according to the needs of the local community. The changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees from 2017 introduced a new local tax on the taxi transport of passengers - 11.4 million according to our assessment is the effect of this measure for the benefit of municipal budgets. The amendments to the Public Finance Act in 2016 and 2017 introduced conditions for monitoring the financial situation and designation of municipalities with financial difficulties and a procedure for their financial recovery. The time has not come for the central government to deprive itself further, and it does so anyway through the matching subsidy from the revenue sources it forms to increase the revenue base of the municipalities at the expense of income taxes or indirect taxes collected within the central government. With regard to corporate taxation, as of 1 January 2003, the legislator adopted a single tax rate and replaced the tax on profits and tax on municipalities with a common corporate tax to facilitate administration. Taking into account the previous practice in the LCC, as well as the discussion of the opportunities related to the DCFL, the adoption of amendments to tax laws relating to tax receipts from direct taxes will result in a number of negative consequences, such as the realization of minor revenues only for municipalities with a larger number of population and employment, while for smaller ones, with greater unemployment, such legislative change will have no effect and further increase inequality between individual economic areas. Raising the administrative burden of business by awarding additional obligations, making it difficult to administer the tax for bringing and recovering the result of the annual tax return. Of course, procedures and rules will be imposed to correct errors in the interaction between the local and state budget. Summarizing, I can say this: the problem with the financial decentralisation of municipalities goes through the extremely low and inadequate taxation of property in Bulgaria. This is a subject that should be very carefully addressed because, if we are talking about local authorities in European countries, which we often give as an example, and we assess the amount of property taxation in them, it will be significantly different not only nominal but also relative to the value of the property. In fact, we can't have a Ferris infrastructure with pernish taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, although it was logical. What it shows is that there is really no active dialogue at the moment on this serious topic. Yes, I agree with you that at certain times, especially at the end of the local authorities' mandates, they seem to be becoming more cautious in this dialogue and in the search for solutions, because sharing responsibilities means sometimes making unpopular decisions. Surely the proposals that municipalities have and are linked to a change in property taxes, you know that there are local authorities' proposals for the creation of land tax related to ownership of agricultural land and forests. Also many other proposals that have been discussed, especially around large municipal forums, when the most serious promises are made to resume the dialogue on the topic of decentralisation deserve to be seriously considered. I believe you will have the commitment and the energy to resume this dialogue. As far as I know, a meeting of the Decentralisation Council has not been held recently, or at least there has not been a serious debate on the subject, so I hope my question, of course, with the efforts of the two central authorities and local authorities, to resume and start working on this important topic of greater financial freedom of municipalities to fulfil the commitments they have towards people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u239	Mr. Ivanov, we are ready to take part in the discussion of each proposal. For example, in what you are currently commenting on the taxation of the land. If you ask me, as an economist, I'm against it, but if you propose it, we'll decide how we vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov.]] Municipalities can't offer because we need a legislative initiative. 60 of the Constitution. Either way, the issue is very delicate because mayors want to manage a larger resource, but if they can not participate in its formation and collection. If I return you to the management of EU funds, all the major projects that are formed in municipalities, who co-financed them? Central government, of course. The debate remains serious, I am ready to participate in it, but, unfortunately, my experience, since I have been dealing with public finances for almost 18 years, shows that municipalities in private talks are ready to offer many solutions, but when it comes time to stand before the local community and protect them, then the MPs who have been proactive enough to help municipalities remain lonely in this debate. Together with you, we can achieve something in this direction if we raise the issue not doctrine-party, but consider what is wise to change in local authorities. In the next question, I'll be able to answer it. By the way, we are making some preliminary considerations on the taxation of property, which is the basis of local taxes. It is about cars, about property, but we are not ready to make clear legislative proposals yet, as the issue is relatively sensitive, especially in the context of the concerns of many mayors from the upcoming relatively short horizon local elections. So I'm not optimistic that we can make a revolution in peacetime, but I'm ready for this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Daniel Yordanov on liberalising the food vouchers system. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, art. 209 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax states that the social expenses under art. 204, para. 1, t. 2, b. Up to BGN 60 monthly provided in the form of food vouchers to each employee, where the following conditions exist, and listed in the relevant assumptions. My question to you is this: does the Ministry of Finance intend to proceed to liberalising the food vouchers system within the meaning of art. 209 of the Corporate Income Tax Act by removing annual square restrictions on the nominal value at which food vouchers can be issued? The existence of a quota system restricts the access of Bulgarian workers and employees to this social acquisition. Do you think the removal of food vouchers quotas with other changes in tax insurance legislation and what are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u242	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Yordanov, the quota system is regulated in the Corporate Income Tax Act. In this provision, the total annual quota for the provision of food vouchers is validated by the State Budget Act for the year in question. So much for facts. Philosophy to have such a quota is the undisputed fact that such reductions represent a loss for the Bulgarian budget and when planning it there should be a specific indicator that will limit it and enable the government to calculate such a potential loss. We monitor the consumption of vouchers for food and it is no accident every year between 2017 and 2018 that you see what a nominal increase there is about 15%, we try so to limit the quota that it covers almost all those who benefit from it as rights. What's the problem with limitless relaxation? First, the possibility of the Ministry of Finance planning the potential loss is lost and, second, there is, albeit hypothetically, we have observed similar abuses, the employer returning some of the remuneration in a food voucher. For this reason, the worker does not receive an increase in remuneration and, at the same time, the fisk loses. I'm not saying it's mass practice. There are similar abuses observed during the years in which the system is applied. The total amount of tax loss for 2017 from personal income tax and social contributions is 144,5 million and for 2018 is 165,2 million. What I can make as a commitment is that we are watching very closely the implementation of the Programme during the year and trying to plan for next year the amount of the quota so that the right and correct employers do not have the opportunity to benefit from this discount that the state makes in their favour. As a finance minister, I cannot promise and would not support its liberalisation at this stage, as I say again, there must be an objective measure for the losses that the state incurs from such a mechanism and they cannot be infinity. If problems with access to vouchers are observed at the end of the year, they are most often due to the fact that incorrect operators reserve large volumes of vouchers that do not realize in the system to end users, which creates an artificial deficit of vouchers, but we are trying to work through the revenue administration and reduce the possibility of such abuses. I undertake to update the limit of food vouchers and be adequate on the market. I can't promise, and I don't support removing the limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. During the last few years, the annual quota of food vouchers within the meaning of art. 209 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax, which was approved in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, runs out of 3 4 months before the expiry of the calendar year, which leaves tens of thousands of employees without this social benefit, despite the desire of their employers to provide them with this opportunity. It is clear that the quota is set in the State Budget Act, but the proposal is made by the Ministry of Finance, respectively by you as a minister who runs this office. This chronic shortage of an annual quota may lead to inaccurate planning of food vouchers consumption, although every year you have information from the National Statistical Institute on employment in the country workers and employees. The topic is actively supported by both employers' organizations and trade unions. The question arises: As a minister, do you have a vision for the future regarding the right of the active Bulgarian citizens to enjoy fully a real social benefit, such as food vouchers? Is the policy that you are leading with regard to regulation of the food vouchers market adequate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u246	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u247	Let us be clear that we are not talking about any market, but about the tax concessions that the state is making. If anyone sees this activity as his own business, it is a market, but for the State it is a loss of revenue. Let us be clear that no employer has any difficulty in giving food vouchers after the limit is exhausted. If they have such a corporate social responsibility and a mission to support their workers and employees, the lack of quota does not limit them. The quota is a limit of tax losses on which the state relies in the budget. There is absolutely no obstacle to this employer, who wants to continue to continue, only that he will not benefit from the relief under the Law on personal income taxes and the exemption from social security contributions under the Social Security Code. Of course, I appreciate the policy as adequate, as the Finance Minister, whoever he is, needs to know what is included in the budget, which he is charged with implementing, respectively, the government. What I have made as a commitment and we will continue to monitor it are the distortions in the system that you have not said anything about. The first distortion: incorrect food vouchers operators who reserve a quota resource and do not use it, but book it in advance to ensure the performance of the contracts they have. A kind of delusion, which is undoubtedly a problem that must be solved by the administration. It's not a problem with the legislative framework. The second serious problem that we need to focus on, because such abuses are also being observed, I quoted it in the answer, I will say it again: there are incorrect employers, a small part of them who use this mechanism to save taxes without increasing the effect on workers and employees in the provision of vouchers. There are incorrect employers who disintegrate, i.e. reduce the remuneration they pay to their workers and employees the size of vouchers, and provide them. This is not the policy's goal in terms of providing food. Not to mention that there are many chains of abuse of such vouchers intended for food. They buy drinks, buy tobacco products, but this is still a matter of mechanism of operation of the system, which is not the problem of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov and is about the criminal procedure initiated by the European Commission relating to provisions in the Law on Value Added Tax. You have the floor to state the question, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, what is the position and what measures will the Ministry of Finance take regarding the initiation of a criminal procedure by the European Commission against Bulgaria relating to the provisions of the Law on Value Added Tax applicable to the tax liability of persons trading in fuels and to the use of assets of the tax liabilities of persons for the purposes not related to their economic activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u250	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, since 2006. Since the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, similar procedures have been repeated. They are related to the compliance of Bulgarian legislation with the applicable European legislation. In this case, we are talking about a statement by the European Commission of a non-compliance with our Value Added Tax Act with Council Directive 2006/112/EC or the so-called.......... Directive............................................................................... The topics concerned are two: firstly, with regard to trade in fuels. Our law provides for a lower limit of collateral, which, according to the European Commission, contradicts and is not proportionate to the Directive to the extent that trade in fuels can also be lower as the amount of collateral required. In this sense, the plans of the Bulgarian state are to comply. When we proposed this measure, which was related to increasing control of the trade in fuels, by the way, a topic which the Meeting is currently considering and must also be very careful in the context of the Commission's claim that non-compliance, when providing for such a restriction, we had in mind the costs generated by commercial operators for the issue of such a guarantee. We will comply with the European Commission's claims and we will change our legislation, our Value Added Tax Act, so that there is a complete correlation between the amount of fuels released for consumption and the guarantee required by traders with them. The other infringement procedure is related to the personal use of assets. Our law treats the levying of value added tax for personal use to be on the reporting value of the asset or acquisition price, without taking into account depreciation. Once again, we believe that in this case the European Commission has reason and we will take measures to adapt our legislation so that the value added tax charged in personal use includes depreciation and takes into account the current value of the asset. In this sense, it will also be the answer to the European Commission and we will take a foreseeable change in legislation in order to comply with the directive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u253	Mr. Minister, the latest regulatory changes relating to fuel trade in the Value Added Tax Act clearly show that rules have been introduced that not only stifle the correct business but also contradict European practices. At the same time, they do not achieve real results in the fight against the grey economy and tax evasion, as well as in the taxation of assets used by taxable persons for non-economic purposes. There is no clear methodology and opportunities for the application of bad practices by the controlling authority are created. I did not see you defend any measure to improve the material and professional security of the customs and tax administration and to counter corruption. Therefore, tax collection problems do not have a real solution, and the government makes a patch on a patch on tax legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u254	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u255	Mr. Kirilov, if you wrote to yourself what you read, it is reprehensible because you have been misled. If anyone else wrote it to you at his expense, we'll write it. I defended 200 additional state figures for the increase of remuneration in both the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency. If we often change legislation, it is because the dynamics in social and economic relations are such as to counteract the attempt to circumvent taxation, it is not an easy job. It is no accident that tax matter is one of the most complex items related to value added tax is perhaps the most complex in tax legislation. Of course, we, like you, are concerned about more and more collections. We have partial successes that show billions in more, collected in recent years. What I want to assure you is that if the changes we are talking about regarding the trade in fuels seem restrictive to you, you need to focus very much on how you will vote on the legislation tabled by all parties relating to the control of the trade in fuels. Because if what we need to correct in the Value Added Tax Act is a small amendment to fully comply with the directive, I do not know how to look at what is now being proposed, although as a finance minister I must be the person to support it with two hands, but the fiscal interest is one, the economic interest is a completely different subject and we need to find the balance between the two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question to Minister Goranov. He is from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev and is about the legislative changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. You have the floor, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I will be brief and ask the question: what legislative changes is the government planning in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u258	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u259	There's a short and long answer. The short one is: none! We reserve the right as people with legislative initiative, I am talking about the Council of Ministers, as soon as we are ready, first you understand it, because the laws are validated by the Bulgarian Parliament anyway. Now more seriously: speaking just now in connection with the decentralisation system, the taxation of motor vehicles is a subject which must be considered very seriously, at least in the context of the imperfect tax model inherited from the beginning of this century, where the value of the vehicle is taken into account without taking into account its environmental burden, if I may say so. In this respect, we have confused incentives in the following directions: we allow very cheaply to become Europe's tomb in relation to cars. In a few years' time, Europe is about to ban the use of diesel units in motor vehicles. And if we do not take on time, we will allow all the old diesels of Europe to come to Bulgaria. I suspect this will happen. That is, one big topic that we need to work on together with you is the rebalance of the system of taxation of cars. The other theme with regard to local taxes and fees, on which we need to work a little, is imperfection in the taxation of natural persons' property. In small and not only small settlements, it is even more pronounced that when we have a new construction or when we have a recently made deal with a particular property, its tax value is updated. At the same time, other properties with which no instrumental transactions have been carried out or have not been newly created appear with tax values far inadequate on the market. This makes for example a capital city to have areas in which there is no well developed infrastructure, but taxes on real estate are in times more than in the ideal center of Sofia. On these distortions in the taxation model, we need to find the solution together. That's what we're thinking at the Ministry of Finance. As soon as we are ready, we will turn them into a legislative initiative, and otherwise you understand my joke is a process. What are you going to offer on this topic tomorrow? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u261	I really thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister, but it is clear to everyone that the system of local finances must be changed. The old one just doesn't work. The state has set aside certain activities for which the Constitution has a commitment to ensure relatively equal access to people, value them and thus fairly distribute the funds by municipalities. This is the responsibility of the state and it should stop there. However, the state did not stop, but continued in the old manner after the State granted the funds, the responsibility of the municipality is only in practice to reassign them, sometimes not according to the will and preferences of the people. A solution must be sought within the framework of a new law on local finances, which must create lasting, stable legal guarantees for other types of relations with the municipality and enable people to do with their money and their taxes what they want. When tax funds remain in the municipality, taxpayers have more opportunities to influence. Less can affect when they go to the Ministry of Finance. At the moment there is too much fear that if you give a little more normal freedom to municipalities, they will bring down the state. This is an expression of complete distrust towards local elected officials. If we don't have confidence, there's no point in talking about decentralisation at all. If they're going to be determined by Sofia where the money goes in place, they don't have to go through the municipal budget. Even small European municipalities have the right to determine the amount of local taxes. If we do not allow municipalities to be competitive in their own country, we make them unable to survive in the common European area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u262	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u263	Mr. Topchiev, your question about what legislative proposals we would cook and what we think about local taxes and fees is irrelevant to the last thing you read, but we are talking about the same thing anyway. If we want to change taxation on the revenue base, that is, to expand the revenue base that local authorities are using, we need to focus on property taxation. If we are debating whether the current mix, which, by the way, is being used throughout Europe, is being used in the local authorities, and the taxes are being paid by indirect, excise and income taxes to enter the state budget, this is a different conversation. It is rather related to your colleague's question of decentralisation. There we have some position, but we're ready to have conversations. Nobody's saying the local authorities don't have the authority. On the contrary, there are so many examples of ruined municipalities, thanks to the implementation of the powers of the local authorities, that each of you can probably look into his party and into GERB, and in the left, and find such mayors who have managed quickly to ruin a municipality and then come to the Ministry of Finance to seek support. But in terms of local revenues, they are entirely in the discretion of local authorities. Moreover, several hundred million matching subsidies are also entirely and only in the divisions of the local authorities. The government through the legislator, through the law, regulates only the activities delegated by the State. We have no dispute that municipalities should have more resources because local infrastructure is expensive. It is no accident that we invest a lot of resources from the European funds, because life is practically in the municipalities. And this building is located in Sofia Municipality! But in order to increase in the current concept the revenue base of municipalities, this goes through the answer that I previously gave you........................................ the revenue base of property taxation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the MP Stefan Burgeev and is about announcing the new samples of the excise banderols. You have the floor to raise the question, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Goranov, honourable colleagues! My question, Mr Minister, is as follows: what stage are we in the decision-making process, correspondingly issuing an order and announcing new samples of excise banderols on tobacco products, given their specific provisions of Directive 2014/40/EU, which enter into force on 20 May 2019 and which have an impact on the location and model of excise banderols with a view to the timely information and preparation of the tobacco industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u266	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u267	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Burgeev, I will be very brief, as I appreciate your concern for tobacco operators. The interest is also ours in this direction, as they are average excisers. From 2016 to 2018, we held many meetings with representatives of the tobacco industry. We are very much ready to announce the procurement, which will be followed by the issuing of the order you are talking about. In general, I can say that we will fit within the deadline. We have a technological readiness and consensus with tobacco manufacturers not but with tobacco manufacturers and traders. The deadline will be respected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Burgeev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Goranov, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Thank you. You've kind of run out of questions. I will confirm why it was important to ask, to raise the question that has been brought down to me by industry and stakeholders. Although it is illogical as a member of the Commission for the Control of Income Agencies and Smuggling, I have surprised to find, and to stress the importance of the tobacco industry is the largest source of income. The illogical thing is because it is ahead of the fuel sector we are fighting for, and yesterday there was a discussion about this logic to bring it into use. So far, the concern is that the information that is leaking from the Ministry of Finance and the work that is being done is so slightly foggy and at very slow pace and paces. You have given a somewhat satisfactory answer to my question, and I thank you. We hope it works and calms down the sector, and this is also important for a fissure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u270	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Will you use the right to the backrest, Mr. Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u271	Just to make it clear that the tobacco industry doesn't pay excise duty. It is paid by tobacco and tobacco users, but this does not change the subject that we will notify them by letter where we are, so there is no tension for you, and we can inform you personally about the specific schedule. I have the assurance of the experts in the Ministry, together with the printing company of BNB that the deadlines will be met and we will fit in with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the MP Radoslav Stoychev and is about the checks carried out by the NRA. Here you are, Mr. Stoychev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u273	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at the beginning of the winter season 2017 - 2018, more precisely in December 2017 was held an information meeting by experts of the NRA in cooperation with representatives of the local authorities and the Ministry of Interior, as well as representatives of the local business and branch organizations from the winter resorts in the country. The meeting was held at Bansko resort. It was the same at the initiative of the Sofia territorial directorate of the NRA in relation to expected increased speed during the winter season 2017 - 2018. It is clear from the meeting that the subject of monitoring and inspections during the winter campaign 2018 will be commercial sites in Borovets, Bansko, Pamporovo, as well as all settlements in the areas in which the resorts are located. The checks will also be carried out both in the bright and in the dark part of the day. For the needs of checks, the employees of the NRA Sofia must monitor the proper use of fiscal devices, real reporting of turnovers and compliance with tax and insurance legislation. In the event of a cash receipt established, the objects of the intruders may be sealed for a period of one month. This thing was done during the winter season 2016 - 2017, when 32 closing orders were issued due to violations in Bansko and Borovets. According to the information in the course of the checks, revenue authorities will necessarily monitor for valid contracts of employment, providing real wages to those working at the premises, and during the checks, joint control actions must also be carried out with the employees of the Ministry of Interior and all institutions responsible for labour law. In this regard, Minister, my question to you is as follows: what were the checks carried out by the NRA in the winter resorts during the period December 2017 - February 2018, including? Please also answer me what is the number of sites checked, the number of infringements found, the fines imposed and the provisions drawn up by the NRA inspectors, and what is the type of most massive infringements found in these checks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u274	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u275	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoychev, control actions during the winter campaign in 2018 took place during the period 2 January 2018 until 15 March 2018, under Order No 1705 of 12 December 2017 of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. In the control actions are covered shopping sites and accommodations located in settlements and resort complexes from the territorial scope of the NRA's Territorial Directorate of the NRA Sofia, and the NRA's territorial directorate Plovdiv. These are the cities of Bansko, Razlog, Dobrinishte, Devin, Velingrad, Smolyan, Chepelare, Hisarya and the locality around the hut From 2 January to 28 February 2018, the revenue authorities carried out a total of 3454 operational checks, including 290 observations which were carried out within two to eight hours at sites, and 135 joint inspections with employees of the Ministry of Interior for which protocols were established. A total of 373 administrative infringements, mainly of tax legislation divided by types, were detected in the course of the controls as follows: difference in cash availability.. 147 infringements; failure to register and report sales via fiscal devices in commercial establishments; lack of fiscal device or integrated automated system for management of commercial activities in the commercial establishment.. 56 infringements; 51 other violations of the provisions of Regulation No H-18 of 2006 on registration and reporting of sales through fiscal devices in commercial establishments; 9 violations of the provisions of Regulation No H-8 of 29 December 2005 on the content, timing, manner and order of submission and storage of data by employers, insurers for their insured persons, as well as by self-insuring persons (2) and infringement of the provisions of the Law on health insurance. As during the winter and summer campaign held in 2017, the most common infringement is currently in contrast with cash availability. 33, para. 1 of Decree No H-18. In addition to the above, in order to carry out preventive controls, bypass patrols have been formed which have carried out a total of 3023 visits to commercial sites. In the application of a forced administrative measure.. Sealing of an object.............................................................................................................................................. 186 of the Value Added Tax Act in the framework of this campaign are sealed a total of 236 commercial sites. Specific information on the fines or property penalties imposed at the time cannot be provided, given that the criminal decrees they are imposed are in the process of issuing in accordance with the time limit laid down in art. 34, para. 3 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Such information may be provided at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u277	Thank you. Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response and for the data and facts you have submitted from this campaign and verification. In this regard, I would like to ask you two additional questions. What is the trend in the development of these violations at the resorts in the country during the winter and summer period? Is there an increase in the reduction of these checks? Is there any restrictive feeling by the object users themselves, of the owners of these objects, to be somewhat limited in infringements? The other thing I want to ask you: is such a campaign also planned during the summer season? From the facts that have been identified by the violations during the winter season, will you take any action to limit these violations and improve the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u278	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u279	Statistics in recent years indicate that every tenth is an intruder. The more checks are growing, the more the number of violations found, but in this proportion one to ten. The measures we have taken with the latest amendments to the legislation relating to the sealing of sites and the uploading of sealed sites into a register in order to avoid the possibility of changing the tenant or user of the business room and thus avoid the restriction by the National Revenue Agency, in my opinion, gives results. I hope that we can report soon below 10% violations of an average number of checks. Summer will be, in that sense, the IRS will be in place, like in recent years. There is an improvement in the culture of the payers, but as I stated in today's control earlier, an endless race between the debtors and the administration. Therefore, the changes in tax legislation will not be one and two. At the moment, while I chair the ECOFIN Council, we have a number of initiatives from the European Commission and individual Member States to change tax legislation at a common European level, because the unscrupulous and those who seek to avoid paying taxes are not born only in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question for today to Minister Goranov is from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov. It is on policies for the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 of the European Union. You have the floor to present the question, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u281	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, what is the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on policy proposals in the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u282	Thank you for your brief question, Mr. Kirilov. Here you are, you have the floor for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u283	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the European Commission is expected to adopt and present its proposal for the EU Multiannual Financial Framework and the entire legislative package related to it on 2 May 2018. The Commission's proposals in the field of sectoral legislation are expected by the end of May, then negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework will begin within the Council of the European Union. Following agreement on the Council's position, negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament will continue. Who are the priorities set out to be in the Union budget after 2020? Undoubtedly, the new Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020 must reflect the future development of the European Union and its political priorities and provide adequate funding with a view to implementing EU policies aimed primarily at citizens. Last but not least, the unstable global environment also requires sufficient resources and budget flexibility in view of the timely and adequate response to crises. We have expressed our position that we would support a Commission proposal to increase the size of the Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020, given the degree of political ambitions and the need for their resource provision. In general, Bulgaria shares the need for better and more effective spending of EU budget funds, improving flexibility, simplification and modernisation of individual policies and programmes. We believe that there should be a careful balance between the new initiatives, such as the Defence Fund, the Digital Agenda, and also instruments of flexibility and response to crises, migration, as well as traditional policies. The future MFF should provide sufficient means to address the ambitious objectives set by Member States in the area of security and migration. With regard to improving external border management, we agree that the financing of migration and security measures should be increased. Traditional policies....... and common agricultural policy must continue to be a major priority in the European Union budget after 2020 as they have proved their added value at European Union level, as well as their extremely important role in promoting growth, employment and competitiveness. We are convinced that cohesion policy is a key tool to promote convergence between countries and can also help stabilise the Balkan countries. It must therefore also maintain its priority position in the next Multiannual Financial Framework. Specifically, in terms of cohesion policy, we believe that it must have a special focus on the least developed areas in order to reduce the differences between levels of development. In connection with the increase in youth mobility, Bulgaria could support the idea of a double increase in the number of young people participating in the programme. On the occasion of the so-called digital transformation of Europe, we support activities related to improving the sustainability and high standards of cybersecurity of the European Union. With regard to the ideas for deepening the Economic and Monetary Union, we believe that the centralised fiscal capacity of the Eurozone is necessary in order to ensure the sustainability of the economies of the Member States of the Eurozone, and to complement the single monetary policy of the European Central Bank. However, we believe that it should be limited to policy areas specific to the Eurozone, without duplicate the policies of the Union funded by the European Union budget. Of course, all of what I'm saying is in Brexit's context, which means we need to finance more with less. There is also an open debate on an increase in the contribution of the Member States. I believe that the Bulgarian position should be that we are ready to participate with a greater contribution, but to ensure that the parameters of agriculture and cohesion policy are maintained, as they have proven the effect for the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian society. The limitation of cohesion policy or its focus on only the least developed regions would result in a potential loss of interest from the large Member States and the deprivation of certain areas in them from cohesion policy, which would automatically in the long term mean the neglect of such a policy within the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u285	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I am pleased that you support the policies relating to the spending part of the budget and the next Multiannual Financial Framework. I'm glad you're also defending cohesion policy. That's why I only have two questions in the revenue section. You have already confirmed that the state has a position to increase the contribution, but does the state have a position to generate own revenue from the European Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u286	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u287	The issue of additional own resources was the subject of multiannual analyses. In addition, you know that there is an international high-level group led by Mario Monti, a former Italian prime minister, which gives different ideas related to some new potential revenue sources. However, I do not see the possibility that they will soon find a place on Europe's agenda, as they are not sufficiently crystalzed as potential revenue sources. In my opinion, from the point of view of the Bulgarian position, we must insist that, whatever these revenue sources may be, they should be as easily defined as possible, as easily managed as possible, so that they do not carry any additional administrative burden on European taxpayers. In general, from this principled position, we are ready to support further enlargement on the basis of own resources in the European budget. Again, there are many different ideas discussed. Some of them are more rational, others are more extravagant and more difficult to apply. We are ready to support much of them, led, I say again, from the principle of not increasing the administrative burden for the European taxpayer and being clearly identifiable and manageable as revenue. Otherwise, we will tighten to the imperfection of such adventurous revenue sources for the general European budget, which will hardly have a significant contribution to the budget as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-23.u288	This was the last question to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. Thank you for participating today in parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House. The next regular plenary session shall be on 28 March 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
