ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, I propose that we complete the work of yesterday's parliamentary day and item 13th of the agenda to become item one for today, and item 11th, which was item one, be point two for today's plenary day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u3	Thank you, too. If I may, I will supplement the parliamentary control to begin after the completion of the item. 1 et c. 2 of the Programme for today's sitting, and if so, after 11.00, continue as provided in the Rules of Procedure. Back-up procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We must learn once and for all when there is an agenda to be respected. When an agenda is voted on Wednesday, I do not think it is so difficult and complicated to predict what will happen in the next two days. If we in parliament cannot make a work plan in three days, I imagine what is in the other Bulgarian institutions, but in fact the Bulgarian citizens see it. We therefore propose that it remain the agenda that we have voted on since Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Hamid Hamid. Vote 177 MPs: 123, against 46, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, the motives of the importers were presented and we continue with debates. I'm opening the debate on the draft decision. You have the floor. Here you are, dear Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of the draft decision proposed to the National Assembly, we propose the following editorial amendment. 3: The Commission consists of 17 members, proportionately divided between the parliamentary groups, which means the parliamentary group of GERB. 7 people, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of BSP.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u7	That's the offer, okay. Any other speeches and suggestions? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will first read the draft decision to set up the committee of inquiry. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate all data and circumstances exported to foreign and Bulgarian media regarding violation of procedures, abuse of power and corruption in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. 2. The Commission shall carry out the necessary actions within 3 months and submit a report. 3. The Commission shall consist of 10 members, shall be set up on a parietal principle, two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. He shall elect a Chair and one Vice-President. I will put to the vote, first, the proposal of the National Representative Julian Angelov for a change in the composition of the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 139 against 16, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the decision establishing the Commission, with the already adopted procedural proposal by the National Representative Julian Angelov. Vote 166 MPs: 161, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I ask the parliamentary groups to make a proposal for the composition of the Commission and its leadership. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As members of this very important and responsible committee we propose Mr. Krasimir Bogdanov and Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u9	Thank you. You have the floor for a proposal, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group for the composition of the Commission, we propose Mr. Yordan Tsonev and Mr. Hamid Hamid, such as Mr. Yordan Tsonev, as President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. You have the floor for a proposal. Come on in, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP) offer for members Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov, Tasco Ermenkov and Todor Baychev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u13	You have the floor for a proposal, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the parliamentary group of GERB we offer Manoil Manev, Desislava Kostadinova-Guseva, Emilia Staneva Milkova, Krasen Krastev, Toma Bikov, Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov, as Toma Bikov we offer him as vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Netsov, you have the floor for an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are proposing Andon Donchev as Commissioner of the Commission from Volja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. You have the floor of procedure, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a procedure to clarify the draft decision in the Vice-President part, because we did not hear well whether you read the Vice-President in the draft decision and we made a proposal for a Vice-President. If not included in the Project, please consider it a proposal made now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I will read only the part of the Decision: "1." He established a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate all data and circumstances exported to foreign and Bulgarian media regarding violation of procedures, abuse of power and corruption in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. 2. The Commission shall carry out the necessary actions within 3 months and submit a report. 3. The Commission consists of 10 members, but we accepted the proposal by the National Representative Julian Angelov, created on a parite principle. Here again I return to the adopted proposal, two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. He shall elect a Chair and one Vice-President. So the offer is in line. Honourable Members, the proposals made for the group's composition correspond to the decision already taken. I will put to the vote the proposal for the composition of the group Vote 173 MPs: 170 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I will put to the vote the proposal that people's representative Yordan Tsonev be elected President of the Commission. Vote 158 MPs: 146, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal that the People's Representative Toma Bikov be Vice-President of the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 148 against 3, abstention 11. The proposal is accepted, which concludes the first point of the day. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECOGNITION OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED PROCEEDANCE. Importer is Danail Kirilov on 10 December 2018. Mr. Danail Kirilov will present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 10 December 2018. At its meeting held on 12 December 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act and withdrawing illegally acquired property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 10 December 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva Minister, and Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister; the Ministry of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov Minister, and Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister; Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov Chief Prosecutor; by the Supreme Court of Cassation Judge Borislav Belaselkov; by the Commission for Countering Corruption and For the Acquirement of Illegal Property Mr. Plamen Georgiev Chairman, and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonova Member. The bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it aims to secure the effective work of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. He added that the proposals reflect the actual will of the legislator at the time of the adoption of the Law and clarified that the exercise of the right to a claim for the revocation of illegally acquired property was an independent procedure, free from the development of the criminal process. Mr. Kirilov added that comparatively-legal analysis between the provision of art. 2 of the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property (repealed) and art. 153, para. 5 from now the current Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property clearly reveals the meaning and desire of the legislator to create the proceedings that develop independently of each other. In support of this content of the lawmaker's will, Mr. Kirilov made a comparison between the framework of the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of property acquired from criminal activity (repealed) until 2012, and the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property (repealed) in force from 2012 to January 2018. Under the first Law, the prerequisite for the referral of the civil court was the establishment of a criminal circumstance with an effective decision, whereas in the next two laws of 2012 and now the one in force since 2018, there are no such requirements. The Bill shall specify the provisions concerning the time limits for carrying out the preliminary examination in the civil confiscation proceedings phase. It is proposed that non-compliance with the instructive deadlines is not grounds for termination of civil proceedings. The draft Law governs the application of the Law in respect of the pending checks and proceedings before the court under the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property (repealed) and the Law on the Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In this way, it shall aim to the full extent to protect the state's interest and ensure the effectiveness of civil confiscation. Mr. Georgiev, President of the Commission, pointed out that the decision of the General Assembly of the Civil College of the Supreme Court of Cassation of 7 December 2018 concerned 19 Commission proceedings for nearly 22 million. lv. He added that, on the basis of the interpretive decision, one proceeding has already been terminated and that the Commission has about 300 pending legal proceedings. Mr. Georgiev pointed out that the given interpretation solution is contrary to the clear motives of the legislator and it is written and amended by law, which is the law of the legislator. Ms. Tsacheva emphasized on the distinction between civil confiscation and criminal proceedings and added that civil confiscation does not constitute punishment. The Minister of Interior Mr. Marinov expressed an entirely positive opinion and acknowledged that with the adoption of the Law the state interest will be protected. Judge Belaselkov pointed out that the Supreme Court of Cassation shares the need to withdraw illegally acquired property. He added that a balance and protection of the interests of the parties should be sought while respecting the principle of proportionality. Mr. Tsatsarov expressed his support for the Bill, noting that the interpretive decision does not comply with the lawmaker's will and put out the arguments of constitutional decision No 13 of 2012, stating explicitly that civil confiscation is not bound by criminal proceedings. On the bill received positive opinions from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior. People's representatives Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Daniel Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov, Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov and Philip Popov took part in the discussion. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have said that the urgent vote on the bill is not justified and will not support it. Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Mitev expressed their support for the submitted bill. Mr Hamid noted that he would support the draft law, and proposals will be made between the first and second votes to refine the texts. Mr. Kirilov put forward arguments in support of the legislative initiative, adding that he fully shares the special opinions of the judges on the judgment of the General Assembly of the Civil College of the Supreme Court of Cassation of 7 December 2018. He pointed out that in order to protect the public interest and the effectiveness of the Commission's work, the bill was submitted in a timely manner. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 6 votes for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 10 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Yachev, you have the floor to present the Report of the Commission on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act and withdrawing illegally acquired property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Kirilov on 10 December 2018. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its regular meeting held on 13 December 2018 examined on the first vote the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Kirilov on 10 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Danail Kirilov, MP and importer of the bill, Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman of KKCONPI, and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova, member of KKCONPI. The bill was presented by the Member of the National Representative Danail Kirilov. He pointed out that nearly one year after the entry into force of the ZKONPI, the need to overcome obstacles has emerged to ensure the effective work of the Commission to counter corruption and to take away illegally acquired property. One of the main motives of the Bill is the positive assessment in the reports of the European Commission after 2012 under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for Bulgaria's progress in the legislative regulation of civil confiscation. The law against corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property is fully in line with the need to create a more effective mechanism to counter organised crime, creating the opportunity to preserve and develop the results achieved and established good practices in the field of civil confiscation. When drawing up the bill, it is taken into account that the withdrawal of the acquired property from an illegal source by civil law constitutes prevention, which has a deterrent role for members of democratic society and will thus restore justice. The proposed amendments concerning civil confiscation proceedings are intended to mention some key points in the Law, thereby creating the necessary link between the functions of prevention of corruption, verification of property declarations, the establishment of conflict of interest and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Mr. Kirilov stressed that the lawmaker's will, expressed in the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegally Acquired Property, is to develop the criminal and civil process independently of each other, with the existence of the proper exercise of the right to withdraw illegally acquired property for the benefit of the State is not brought before the state by an absolute procedural precept to terminate criminal proceedings. It was also clarified that the deadline provided for in the Law for carrying out the verification under art. 112, para. 1 is recommended as an instructive instrument, governed by the legislator as a means of discipline, and its non-compliance does not undermine the relevant action, but is grounds for disciplinary liability and/or for seeking compensation for damages under the special provisions of the Law on State liability and the municipalities for damages. Those deadlines shall aim to ensure that the civil rights of the persons examined are not violated beyond what is necessary and reasonable before proceeding with the action before the court. The Law also proposes that the unfinished checks and proceedings before the court under the Law on withdrawal in favour of the State of the illegally acquired property be completed under the new Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, expressly providing for the possibility (with regard to the duly exercising of the right to withdraw the illegally acquired property and the nature of the time limits) to enter into force on 23 January 2018, thereby fully protecting the state interest and ensuring the proven effectiveness of the civil confiscation. During the debates Mr. Plamen Georgiev was also heard, who expressed support for the so presented proposals for amendment to the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. According to the bill the MPs Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Simeon Naydenov and Milko Nedyalkov were involved. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 6 votes................................................................................................. has been held...................... and proposed.........................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In short, as much of the contents of the Bill have already been indicated in the submitted reports. The bill aims to secure the effective work of the Commission to counter corruption and to take away illegally acquired property. It reflects the actual will of the legislator, adopted also by the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, and continued with the adoption of the current Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, namely the exercise of the right to withdraw illegally acquired property, to be a stand-alone production, free from the development of the criminal process. In comparatively legal analysis between the provision of art. 2 of the repealed Act, acting from 2012 to January 2018, and the equivalent provision of art. 153, para. 5 of the law in force shows the meaning and content of the provisions, setting out two proceedings which develop independently of each other. The existence of pending criminal proceedings and, accordingly, the entry into force of the conviction is not a prerequisite for the conduct of a withdrawal claim, and this content of the arrangements is also brought up in comparison with the Law on the withdrawal of property acquired by the State of property acquired by the criminal activity. Until 2012, the pre-trial of the civil court was the establishment of a criminal circumstance with an effective sentence or decision, whereas the Act after 2012 and now the law in force of 2018 allow a procedure for the withdrawal of property after a special administrative procedure was carried out by the Commission, without the need for the existence of pending criminal proceedings and therefore the entry into force of a judgment. The bill shall specify the provisions concerning the time limits for carrying out the preliminary examination and for drawing up the acts by the officials concerned in the special procedure phase for civil confiscation and shall lay down that non-compliance with the instructive time limits does not affect the powers of the Commission. The Act shall be implemented in respect of the outstanding checks and proceedings before the court under the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property and the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, thus aiming to the full extent to protect the state interest and ensure the effectiveness of the civil confiscation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support the submitted Draft of the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The occasion is this so-called interpretation solution, which has, however, gone too far. Colleagues, this decision has reached beyond the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Someone representing the Supreme Court has gone too far to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the separation of authorities. We've heard this one before. Someone has become a politician and from the high tribune of the Supreme Court to make these political ones. Here, however, it has come too far to be introduced as a legislator and has gone to change the Law with an interpretation decision, not to supplement the Law, but to change it to 180 degrees, to 360 degrees. We have said before that if anyone decides to engage in political activity, to order, to appear in elections and to come to the National Assembly to legislate. However, we cannot allow this to happen through the high tribunal of the Supreme Court. Someone changed the rules of the football game after the match had started, a match thanks to which Bulgaria received the best, most positive report in a long time. You can be sure that the huge merit of this is the work, the work and the results of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Now, with this bill, the importer proposes that we restore the rules and the football match continue under the same rules as it began. We will therefore support the Bill with a clear awareness that there is no way, when there is a full consensus in the National Assembly, in the state to fight corruption, someone to go against their people, against their government, against their parliament and to change rules! We can't let that happen! The proposals we are about to submit will be technical. We will propose that the time limit for examining and ruling the Commission and for bringing an action on behalf of the Commission for countering corruption and for withdrawing the illegally acquired property be doubled, especially when a legal order is required in a foreign country in order to provide documents, because very often these documents are delayed and the deadline expires. Unfortunately, many courts turn the implementation into a practical instructive period into a pre-conditional one. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask that we all express our will to support the fight against corruption and respond accordingly to attempts to change the Bulgarian legislation outside the parliament. Thank you. [[Single applause from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to enter the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 854-01-87, submitted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. They voted 147 MPs: 116, against 6, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on this bill be three days and expire on Monday at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 151 MPs: 114, against 30, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, the beginning of parliamentary control is 11:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u30	Colleagues, here we go. PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 7 " 13 December 2018': A question was received from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Mihaylov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov, Ilian Timchev to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health on the policy of the Ministry of Health to ensure the right of access to medical care provided by general practitioners. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 11 January 2019. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Environment and Waters of a question of the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Timchev, Vasil Tsvetkov and Valentin Milushev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Adlen Shevked. We continue with Ms. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. She will answer a question by the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the National Strategy for the Child.................................................................................................. the new strategic document................................................................................................................................................ This is Mrs. Nikolova's first appearance. Let us wish her good luck from now on in her meetings with parliament and be benevolent! You have the floor, Mrs. Halacheva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you for letting me ask my question anyway. The decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria of 31 January 2008 adopted a National Strategy for the Child 2008. The strategic goal of the document is:?Protection of conditions for effective exercise of the rights and improvement of the quality of life of the Bulgarian children for free and full personal development and the operational objectives are:?Reducing child poverty and creating conditions for social inclusion of children; ensuring equal access to quality pre-school education and school education; improving the health of children; encouraging the participation of children in the formation and implementation of policies related to their rights and responsibilities. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Social Policy, I will not comment on the implementation of the Strategy and the extent of the objectives achieved. It is enough to mention the annual notebooks of the National Network for Children, where there are multiple occasions for criticism of the executive power and the commitments of the state regarding the Bulgarian children. More importantly, however, the National Strategy for the Child for the period 2008 - 2018 changes the attitudes of the institutions, but especially of the Bulgarian citizens towards children and their development policies. Changes in the position of Bulgarian children as actively involved in the overall policy of the Republic of Bulgaria are very important. Conscious of the role of the Strategy for the Bulgarian Child and its continuation as a strategic document, my colleague Petar Vitanov and I asked Minister Biser Petkov on 9 February this year in order to remind the government that for the new period there should be one. That is why I ask you: is the government ready to submit by the end of the year to the National Assembly for discussion and adoption of the new strategic document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, I just need to make a statement that I am Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, not Social Policy. Isn't that the solution? To your question first of all, I would like to say: yes, the government is ready with the new Strategy for the Child 2019 - 2030. The National Council for Child Protection, which consists of representatives of state institutions, local authorities and representatives of civil organisations working on children's problems, has established an Interdepartmental Working Group on the establishment of the National Strategy by its decision of 9 May this year. In addition to members of the National Council, prominent representatives of academic circles and representatives of international organizations such as UNICEF and the World Bank also participate in this working group. By consensus is defined the approach for the development of the strategic document, the key areas and strategic and operational objectives are first defined, the vision of the document is formulated, namely: creating opportunities for every child in Bulgaria at every stage of their childhood to live and develop its potential in an integrated, healthy, secure and encouraging environment to ensure its rights and well-being in support of parents and professionals. The thematic areas of impact related to the development of the child in the Strategy are as follows: health and healthy lifestyle, family environment, alternative care and standard of living, quality education for all children, secure environment and access to justice, recreation and leisure. In-depth analysis of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018 was carried out and a thorough process of public consultation, 45 discussions were held in different format of the framework of the new document. On 1 October this year, the National Advisory Meeting was held in Plovdiv. It was attended by a wide range of representatives of state bodies, academics, social partners, NGOs. The draft national strategy prepared with the numerous proposals from the public discussions included in it was debated at a final meeting of the working group on 30 November this year. An additional three-day deadline for further proposals was also given after the meeting. The draft strategy will be presented at a meeting of the National Council for Child Protection scheduled for 19 December this year. Following the approval of the National Council, a co-ordination procedure will follow for submission to the Council of Ministers. After adoption by decision of the Council of Ministers, the National Strategy for the Child 2019 " 2030" will be submitted to the National Assembly within the first quarter of 2019 in accordance with the preliminary timetable of the Interinstitutional Working Group. It should be borne in mind that when developing the new National Strategy for the Child 2019 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. A line, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Ms Nikolova, one thing has become clear from your reply, namely that by the end of 2018 the new Strategy for the Child will not be introduced and adopted to the National Assembly. But breaking the laws is actually your government's practice. I'll give just one example. An agreement has not yet been signed between the State Agency for Child Protection and the Council for Electronic Media for the Protection of Children from Content, which I quote: it is unfavorable and poses a risk of harm to their physical, mental, moral or social development. The legal deadline for adopting such an agreement is 31 March 2019. Unfortunately, today we are 14 December 2018, and such an agreement is missing. Regarding the strategy in the draft of the new strategic document of 28 November 2018 is written, I quote: The impact assessment shows a lack of institutional and information connectivity in planning, realization and evaluation of the changes made in the policies for the child. In other words, there is no independent body on policies for children in the Republic of Bulgaria. This is a major criticism of Bulgaria and the UN Rights Monitoring Committee. There is no coordination of the different sectoral policies. More than 25 regulatory, sub-normative acts and strategies regulate the course of policies for children in the country, but are not integrated. An independent body is needed. That is why I asked a written question to your predecessor Mr. Valeri Simeonov, from the reply of which I learned that the budget of the State Agency for Child Protection for 2019 was increased by only 151 thousand. lv. Did you know that the Directorate General for Child Rights of the State Agency for Child Protection has 31 staff members who need to control over 23 529 sites [[the President signals that time has run out]] and that the entire composition of the State Agency for Child Protection is 66 employees, of whom since the beginning of this year 28 have left. I therefore ask you an additional question: do you provide for the State Agency for Child Protection to become a senior authorising officer and to make it an independent body and how will you increase the Agency's capacity to meet the objectives of the new Strategy for the Child? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, my dear Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u37	Dear Mrs. Halacheva, it is a matter of decision whether or not it will be a senior usher I share such a view. It is a matter of dialogue and discussion, so from this point of view I will consult my colleagues on the structure of the SACP. As far as state numbers are concerned, it's definitely not enough. It is a matter of discretion and of budget at the moment how the numerical composition of an administration will be increased, as you really know that this is happening within the framework of a budget and budget forecast. With regard to your statement, I would like to add that from the information that I have given you so far, it is clear about the exclusive responsibility and the thorough attention that is applied to the structure of the State Agency for Child Protection and to the preparation of the new strategic document. There have been many comments from this House that legislative acts and strategic documents are submitted to the National Assembly without sufficient public consultation by stakeholders. I have tried to inform you that a wide range of specialists and representatives of civil society are involved in the process of preparing the document. Additional questions and problems that will be raised are not an exception, because you know, and I support the thesis that the health and life of our children are of paramount importance and that must be the goal of the government. There have been dozens of public discussions. This gives serious weight to the new Strategy for Child Protection. I think that if it is submitted to the National Assembly at the beginning of next year, nothing will be affected by the successful implementation for 11 years, as is the term of the Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. He is from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov and is about the adopted amendments and additions to the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Some time ago we adopted amendments to the Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020, in which we affected the gas part of our energy where the entry point of Bulgaria should be. We know that by building our gas hub, in the pre-project study that was funded, part of the European Commission has been pointed out to have such a gas hub without the liquidity guaranteed by Russian gas, it is not going to happen. But, of course, it can't happen if there are no other sources of gas. We know that much work has been done by the Ministry, respectively by Bulgartransgaz. In addition to the pre-project study, two tenders were carried out, as far as I recall, of the so-called Open Seasons, which are non-binding. We are expecting a new tender after the adoption of the Strategy. Of course, diversification is also affected there as participation in the terminal in the city of Alexandroupolis and so on and so forth. In order not to continue repeating what we have adopted almost unanimously by the National Assembly, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister: what is the progress in the implementation of the measures envisaged, and what are the activities ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please excuse me if I delay the time a little, but the subject is really important, so I apologize in advance. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the question you are asking is very relevant and very important, because literally a few days ago an update of Bulgaria's Energy Strategy was made, a document that defines the vision that defines the steps we need to take to achieve our energy goals. And quite frankly, the question is: what is to be done and what have we done so far, because in the update of the Strategy, such activities need to be implemented by the end of this year? Therefore, I will now introduce you to the actions taken and all the measures that we have taken in this direction, and what is to be taken in relation to the decision in the strategy "Bulgartransgaz" to take action to implement the Project for the extension of the infrastructure from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border, and to launch public contracts to build additional infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the part of Bulgartransgaz is preparing a project documentation for public procurement in relation to the delivery of the necessary materials and equipment, investment design, construction and commissioning of the site.The extension of the infrastructure of Bulgartransgaz.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Within the next week, the documentation will be sent to the Public Procurement Agency for preliminary monitoring of the legality as required by art. 232 of the Public Procurement Act. Upon completion of the control procedure, the company will announce the contract by publishing a notice in an official Journal of the European Union and publishing the decision initiating the procedure and the notice in the public procurement register. The procurement documents will provide for the contract for the award of the contract to be concluded under a condition within the meaning of art. 114 of the Public Procurement Act due to the fact that at the date of its signature no full funding was provided for its implementation. The contract will enter into force if the contracting authority sends a letter to the contractor for the performance of the activities under the subject-matter of the contract as from the date of receipt by the contractor of the contracting entity's letter. The letter will be sent in case, as a result of the Phase-3 procedure, a binding capacity reserve contract is concluded and a final investment decision is taken for the implementation of the project. Bulgartransgaz is in the process of conducting a procedural assessment of the demand and allocation of added capacity, pending the implementation of the Phase-3 procedure. Yesterday, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission published a report containing a detailed description of the procedure and scheduled an open meeting to discuss the report and documentation for the conduct of the engaging Phase-3 procedure. This open meeting will take place on 19 December 2018. According to the statutory deadlines it is expected that the KEWRC will come up with a decision by 21 December 2018, after taking into account the appropriate opinions of the interested parties. In this regard, it is envisaged from 21 December 2018 to 31 January 2019. "Bulgartransgaz" to conduct Phase 3 of the Open Season procedure. In parallel with this on 21 December 2018, I intend to announce the contract for the realization of the project. This is done in order to be able to implement the deadlines and objectives set in the strategy update. With regard to the decision to take action to establish a gas exchange, I inform you that the establishment of the subsidiary company of Bulgartransgaz. The gas exchange will operate with the gas exchange to ensure an appropriate market environment for the implementation of a gas hub "Balkan" is at an advanced stage and is due to take place by the end of 2018. With a view to ensuring the functioning and liquidity of the gas exchange, it is envisaged to sign an agreement with the Central European Gas Hub that operates with the natural gas trading exchanges in Austria and in the Czech Republic between 17 and 21 December. That is to say, next week, we are providing for the official signing of this Memorandum of Cooperation. It is in several directions from the point of view of a legal framework, from the point of view of a regulatory framework, from the point of view of exchange of experience, training of staff. I think that would be very helpful. As regards the acquisition of a shareholder interest in the construction of theNG terminal of Alexandroupolis, the necessary actions have been taken. "Bulgartransgaz" will acquire 20% of the share capital in the joint stock company. The first non-binding phase of the market test was launched by Gaztrade and Bulgartransgaz. So I think that's a good sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u42	Let's keep it for the next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u43	Regarding the restructuring of the contract with Gazpromexport, as in the Strategy it became clear, this process is directly dependent on the outcome of the market test, the third phase of the market test, and therefore the reserve of capacity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u44	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You'll have an opportunity in the back. Here's a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u45	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Dear Minister, I am personally very pleased with your response, seeing that you have not even had time to proceed. The most important thing in this case is to protect the interest of Bulgaria. This is the most important, not to pass one gas or another through Bulgaria, and it is such that it can guarantee its energy and national security. Of course, the project has financial dimensions. I am glad that the third auction events, which is binding, have been made so quickly and are set up so quickly. We expect, for God's sake, to reserve all the capacity of the pipe so that we can be sure that it will pass through Bulgaria. In the media, there is a lot of circulation, and some experts say we will almost buy Turkish gas. Actually, that's not true. We'll be buying Russian gas from Gazpromexport, won't we, Minister? In reality, they will simply pay transit fees through Turkey, as well as through Bulgaria, if the Serbs buy again from the Gazpromexport. If you continue your answer in the duplicate, I will be even more satisfied because it is a project that has been implemented in Bulgaria for many years and already see the prospects for it in the field of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u46	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, Mrs. Secretary, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Lord Nikolov, in recent days, extremely important work is being done and in very intense terms, as you yourselves know that in the Strategy you are all supporting... and for which I really thank you, because it is important for Bulgaria..... that this whole process is directly related to the construction of this part of the missing infrastructure, and it is until the end of 2019. For this reason everything we are doing, all of what we are doing as actions, taking into account.. I am keen to emphasise, fully with national legislation and with European Union legislation, we are doing so that we can enter into these deadlines. As soon as next week, in parallel to the start of the third phase of the market test, we intend to launch and announce the contract for the selection of a contractor, because this will perhaps be one of the most important processes towards the realization of our goal set out in the Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u48	Thank you, Madam Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first one is from the MP Kristina Sidorova and refers to the repair of Republican road III-609 on the territory of the town of Plachkovtsi. You have the floor, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, Republican Road III-609, passing through the territory of the town of Plachkovtsi from km 38.3 to km 41.1 is third-class, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria. The road hasn't been repaired for many years and its condition is more than critical. The town of Plachkovtsi is the second largest place in the municipality of Tryavna, and the inhabitants of the town travel there every day. Passing through the road, which is the central road of the town of Plachkovtsi, is more than unpleasant, difficult and the holes are really huge. In this regard, my question to you is: will it be rehabilitated and when will the road section from km 38.3 to km 41.1 pass through the town of Plachkovtsi, part of the Republican road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Republican Road supposed to be the only transport access to a number of small settlements in the town hall of Plachkovtsi and enjoys all year round. Therefore, a major repair of the section from km 39 to km 45 was carried out in 2008, including a complete re-asphalting and improvement of drainage, and at the moment its condition is good. This is the section between the cities of Plachkovtsi and Tryavna. In 2017, according to a signed sporadic protocol with the mayor of Tryavna municipality, an ongoing maintenance of the stretch of about a kilometer long and three hundred "between 38th and 39th km long, in the urbanized territory of the town of Plachkovtsi, the border of the settlement was carried out by the municipality. In 2018 between the municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D) there was no agreement and the current maintenance was carried out by the Regional Road Management (R &amp; D) Gabrovo. However, renovation works on the pavement are not carried out in the light of limited financial resources. A survey of a team of specialists from the Regional Road Management.. Gabrovo and the verification found that most of the problem areas were settlements formed after repair activities for the removal of water accidents. In view of the state of the area, no deep holes were found to pose a danger to road accidents. In order to improve the quality of the section, it is necessary to perform a complete re-asphalting, in advance to make local repairs to the road pavement, to replace the restrictive curbs and to repair and replace the drains and shafts. According to an expert assessment, these activities will cost about 730 thousand. lv. with VAT. Previously, however, it is necessary and advisable to undertake repair activities to replace engineering equipment on the road surface, underground engineering networks. These findings have been notified by the letter of the Mayor of the town of Plachkovtsi. The Director of the Regional Road Management of Gabrovo is committed to holding such a meeting with the mayor of Tryavna Municipality, but we cannot predict the results of it.............................. whether the Municipality of Tryavna will agree to release these funds to Plachkovtsi so that the underground facilities can be replaced and............................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u52	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I sincerely hope that an understanding will be reached between the Regional Road Management and the Municipality of Tryavna, because residents of the town of Plachkovtsi deserve to have a quality path, and in the center of the city. I hope that the measures you have taken will be implemented next year and next year at the same time I will not ask the same question about the condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u54	Thank you. We move on to the next question by the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Nikolai Ivanov and Manol Genov. It is about the policy in the field of cadastral creation and maintenance, service to citizens. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency is the only state body responsible for the creation and maintenance of the register of geographical names in the Republic of Bulgaria, the creation and maintenance of information systems to them, as well as the adoption of the transcription of foreign geographical names. Geographical names are an important part of the total amount of geospatial information. The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency organizes and supports the State Geodesicic, Cartographic and Cadastral Fund, which is part of the National Archives. The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency is based in Sofia and includes 28 Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre services located in the district cities. After the creation of the cadastre for the entire territory of the country will be the only body that provides citizens from one place cadastral information about real estate both in settlements and in agricultural land, forests and other types of territory. In this regard: what is the policy in the field of Cadastral, which the Office will be entrusted to you, in particular................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What measures will you take to improve the administrative and legal framework relating to the Cadaster and the Property Register?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary. You have five minutes, according to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, Mr. Tsonkov, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Genov! The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency is a state body with legally defined powers to create and maintain the cadastral map and cadastral registers, provide and provide services with cadastral data, sketches and schemes from the cadastral map, extracts from cadastral registers, provision of services from the State Geodesical, Cartographic and Cadastral Fund and the registers of the rightful persons, as well as maintenance and update of the Register of Geographical Names in the Republic of Bulgaria. The electronic service of citizens is laid down as a concept of the digital cadastre and is a process of creation and upgrade. In 2014, a new Cadastral-Administrative Information System of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre was fully operational, enabling all services provided by the Agency to be carried out electronically. All customers shall be given the opportunity to submit applications electronically, to make electronic inquiries and payments, and to receive official documents from and in any Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre office, irrespective of the location of the Cadastre site. In order to meet the constantly changing conditions, environment and growing needs of consumers, the Agency continuously improves the Integrated Cadaster Information System and the Property Register. This is also important in relation to requirements relating to government priorities for the implementation of electronic management and interoperability. The system must be upgraded and brought into line with the new Cadastral regulations, the provision of services and electronic management. In this regard, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency has launched a project under the Operational Programme "Good management" with the subject of "Progressing" for the provision of electronic and administrative services and development of the Cadastral Information Systems. The launch is in great delay for objective reasons relating to a series of appeal procedures against the announced open procedure. Currently, there are two pending cases in the Supreme Administrative Court. The implementation of the project is key to the development of electronic services. It provides for an extension of the possibilities of cadastral systems by introducing open source technology, bringing processes into them according to the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance and Changes in Specialized Legislation. In parallel to this in order to improve the service of the users of cadastral services, offices, municipalities, citizens and legal entities, all target groups of the cadastral, the Agency shall also undertake changes in the legislative environment corresponding to and reflecting the dynamics of the processes. In order to optimise the operation of services, to reduce the time for their provision, this year the Agency has initiated a system of legislative changes aimed at facilitating the order to apply and obtain administrative services. In relation to received signals from users for failed implementation periods, the new management of the Agency detailedly examined and analysed the work of regional services regarding the quality and timing of the services provided. A new concept of customer service with cadastral information is therefore being developed, in which, in addition to expert staffing, a three-step control system and sanctions are envisaged, internal in the relevant unit, control and verification of alerts against illegal and incorrect acts or omissions of employees by the relevant unit of the Agency's central administration. It is important to note here that each case is specific and what consumers often report as late is, in general, the application of legal provisions requiring procedures for notification to interested parties which are not included under a regulation within the stated deadline for implementation. The main expectations and results of the project under the Operational Program "Good management" with the subject of improvement of the working processes are the following: achieving reliable performance of the Centralized National Information System in the event of multiple increases in data volume, central database, significant increase in online requests to it and achieving interoperability, while also complying with the requirements laid down in the Law on Electronic Governance, Analysis and Assessment of existing information and administrative services, realization of new intra-administrative services for the needs of other administrations and new electronic administrative services for citizens and businesses related to the provision of current historical and design cadastral data. The amendments and additions to the Law on Cadastral and Property Register adopted in 2016 created a legal possibility for Cadastral Services to be assisted in administrative services by municipal agriculture and municipal administrations. With this are saved time and costs of users for access to receptions where they can receive the requested service, as the admissions of the municipal services................................ and the municipal administrations are located in the municipal centers.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... The number of municipal administrations with which the Agency has already concluded agreements to support administrative service is over 80 of all 265 municipalities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll finish my answer in...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u58	Thank you for understanding. You're really gonna get that chance. Which of the importers will take the attitude and take the opportunity to supplement questions? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! We cannot be satisfied with the answer you have given because we see how you are constantly talking about regulatory changes that will reorganise the processes in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, improve the work of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and ultimately see that the same problems remain unresolved in recent years, namely a serious delay in the case files, administrative service of citizens, a difficulty in the relationship between citizens and the Ministry in the face of the Cadastre Agency, and the various types of documents issued accordingly. This is also what we see in your written reply, which we received with our colleagues last week, which shows that applications are constantly increasing, which are being submitted to the various territorial structures of the Cadastral Agency, but do not actually take adequate measures to decide how, in the case of greater load and volume of information that is entering, there will be no major delays within the time limits for the provision of administrative services. This comes to saying that in fact you do not have a strategic view on how to develop this important portfolio in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, lack of vision for long-term development, obviously you are constantly talking about legal changes as well. What exactly are these changes? There are clearly strategic problems that need to be solved. I'm just giving you an example of the slowdown at the Cadastral Agency on average is six months apart. Six months! We're not talking about a month, two months, three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Madam Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u61	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, if in 2014 the country's coverage with a cadastral map was 18%, it is currently 70.86%, i.e. the increase is three times. About 7,000 applications from users come into Sofia monthly, including 560 certificates for adoption of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers Change Project. You yourself know that any request to amend the cadastral map concerns the rights and legitimate interests of a certain range of stakeholders who must and should be informed accordingly. The fulfilment of this legal obligation in many cases is difficult to fulfil, given the lack of unambiguous information on the status of the person himself, of his potential heirs, their current or permanent address to be notified. This is one of the circumstances which appears to be defining the deadline for the performance of the service, but is actually the implementation of legal provisions. The new law, which will be initiated in January 2019 in order to facilitate the process, proposes the creation of a legal opportunity for persons who have acquired competence under the Cadastre and Property Register Act to assist Cadastre Services with the administrative service by issuing sketches of land properties, designs of buildings, schemes of independent sites in buildings and facilities of the technical infrastructure and certificate of availability or lack of data. The documents will be automatically drawn up by the information system to which the eligible persons will have the right to access. The activities of legal persons will be controlled by the Agency and the detailed arrangements for the implementation of this activity will be regulated by a regulation. The extension of the circle of bodies that have the right to receive sketches, schematics and certificates from the Cadaster through the information system will actually ease the process. You know that since 2014, municipalities have been legally given the opportunity to receive notaries through the information system of Cadastral sketches and schemes that are necessary for notary proceedings. Thus, in fact, the need for the owner to carry out an instrumental transaction to supply sketches or paper schematics has been dropped. I and my colleagues from the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster believe that with the possibility and municipalities to take action on the issue of such sketches, as there is already experience in many of the municipalities in Bulgaria, we will ease this process, as well as in the agriculture services, as well as with the legislative changes initiated to enable the rightful persons and will significantly ease the process. In fact, the legal requirements for notifying all interested parties who delay the process cannot be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u62	Thank you. You have the opportunity to respond, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the facts presented are certainly absolutely accurate 70.76 per cent of the country's territory. For the status of the administrative and legal arrangements relating to the Cadastre and Property Register, I will allow myself to speak with facts. The facts are entirely taken from the written responses of your previous minister. According to a written reply of 9 October 2018, property registers have five judicial areas of 28 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. From a written reply dated 27 June 2018 by the former Minister Nankov on the implementation of specialized cadastral maps, namely maps with underground communications, were drawn up as follows: district cities full or partial, 9 out of 265 for the whole country; and settlements of 24 out of approximately 5000 settlements. I stress: 24 out of 5000 and 9 out of 265. A written reply from you dated 10 October 2018 shows that, despite the lack of legal framework incorporated into you by law, and at present, the Regulation on a bilateral connection for the exchange of data between the Cadastre and the Property Register does not exist between the Cadasta Agency and the Registry Agency. Despite the lack of the regulation, however, the relationship exists physically. Here are some basic questions. First, how does this relationship work, and on what basis? Secondly, how is data security guaranteed when exchanging between the two agencies? Thirdly, who is responsible for the data exchange process? Let's hope it doesn't happen again with the Trade Register. On the public consultation portal are published two regulations to the Cadastral Law and the Property Register to increase the time limits for preparing the Cadastral Information Systems and bringing them into line with the regulations. Facts showing the inability or lack of administrative capacity to deal with current problems related to the Cadastre and the Property Register. Madam Minister, it is urgent to ensure adequate treatment by the Ministry to the Cadastre Agency and the property register, to ensure the provision of the material base, the salaries, to create the necessary working conditions in order to facilitate the order to declare and obtain administrative services from the Bulgarian citizens. It is high time for the state and the Ministry to take adequate account of the problems in the sector, because the failing law and its application will affect every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u64	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. For a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group there is Mr. Kutev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The spending of public funds is a key part of the political life in the country and is a condensed expression of politics. That is why the law requires that all public expenditure be made on a competitive basis, which obliges us, respectively, to ensure transparency and efficiency of spending. That is why the Budget Act, as the most important law of the year, is adopted by the National Assembly, which guarantees the transparent and fair spending of the Bulgarian money. In the spirit of the law and democratic principles, it is necessary to ensure that every lev collected by Bulgarian citizens must be spent with maximum transparency and efficiency. Every penny! What do you get in practice, though? In view of the situation so far, on the basis of preliminary assessments by the Ministry of Finance, the balance of the consolidated fiscal programme on a cash basis is expected to be positive by November 2018 at 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In simple human language, the year will end with 2 billion. 800 million. lv. excess. This is more than 10% above the revenue generated in the revenue side of the budget. Huge money made with hard work by Bulgarians paid to the state by creaking their teeth in conditions of mass poverty. The management says you've done a very good job, and that's why you've raised so much money over the budget. This, as we all know, is a lie because in the discussion of Budget 2018 a year ago BSP has repeatedly predicted that in 2018, the state will raise at least 2 billion. 134 million. lv. We had done so much in our proposals, but at least so much more money than the budget had planned. Then we told you that you deliberately underestimate the revenue part of the budget with a very dishonest goal to give Borisov the opportunity to distribute one-off two or three billion of the Bulgarian citizens' money, bypassing the laws of the country, ignoring the spirit of the law without any competition and transparency. As you can see, what BSP spoke to you a year ago, now happens exactly like this. You have collected almost 3 billion more, but you did not deliberately put them in the budget, you deliberately reduced the budget framework and now you are spending this money in the most opaque way and I can boldly say: in the interests of not the Bulgarian citizens, but two or three people who will become indecently rich as a result of these actions. What do I mean? A year ago you rejected all of BSP's proposals on the budget under the pretext that there is no financial resource to be implemented, and all of our proposals together, as I already said, cost 2 billion. 134 million. lv. The budget is overcrowded with almost 3 billion, as we told you back then. If you had accepted BSP's proposals for Budget 2018, today over 1 million. 600,000 pensioners would have received updates of their pensions and pensions would have increased between 20 and 30%. We have proposed this update on the basis of 2013 and this would have cost 810 million. lv. of the budget, 38 000 mothers could receive an increase in the amount of monthly monetary compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years, which is now 300 and several BGN, we suggested to be 460 BGN.. That is 55 million in the budget. It could have extended the scope of the aid of 250 leva at the beginning of the school year for children not only from I, but for children from II, III and IV class this measure would have covered the parents of about 120 thousand more children and would have cost 30 million of the budget. The working parents could deduct up to 50 leva. to a child monthly from the total income tax due, which would have cost 290 million. lv. the budget. Small and medium-sized farmers could receive additional national subsidies of 100 million. BGN, instead of reducing the thresholds of mandatory insurance. In addition, the Commission notes that the IRIS-H and the IRIS-H did not have any doubts as to the compatibility of the measure with the internal market. The construction of a new children's pediatric hospital could have started for 50 million. BGN, instead of shutting down and reorganizing the existing hospital, the problem of today and the last week. Hospitals in hard-to-reach areas could obtain a living subsidy for capital expenditure and maintenance of 31 million. BGN instead of shutting down municipal hospitals. The NHIF's debts to foreign health insurance funds could also be paid, which amounted to 260 million on 31 December 2017. lv. These were all our proposals, and they were all worth 2 billion together. 134 million. lv. All this did not happen this year because, dear colleagues of the majority, pensioners cannot be stolen. The social expenses we offered you are not on the soul of Borisov because the pensioners commission does not pay. And direct evidence that it is the commissions that are your motivation for action is the way you spend the money of the Bulgarian citizens this week. Instead of raising retirement pensions, the government decided yesterday to spend 1 billion. 350 million. lv. of the surplus in question for the construction of the highway of Hemus. Why exactly is this money being given for a freeway? For a very simple reason the billion and a half leva will be spent without any, without any public procurement! They will be assigned to the state-owned company, which, as we all know, has no capacity to carry out such construction. So she doesn't have the machines, she doesn't have the staff, she doesn't have the materials, she doesn't have anything. In other words, this company will simply recommend the activities of the construction of other private companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as you well know, will happen, as I have already said, without any public procurement, without competition at prices and quality, without any transparency. Two or three people in this country will decide which companies to pay a billion and a half leva in total contrary to the spirit of both the law and democracy. With this, these people will become indecently rich, although they may already be, because it is not the first time they have spent such funds. I know at least one of those people's names. [[Reply: "Say it! "]] You're saying I should say it?! Can anyone in the country imagine that the distribution of a billion and a half leva for construction can happen without Borisov's direct intervention?! In your opinion, dear Bulgarian citizens, who will distribute these orders and whom will the commissions be given? Out of a billion and a half orders, how many commissions, dear viewers?! [[Relations, excitement.]] Gentlemen in charge of you, those who are in the Chamber, or at least the vast majority of you, will not receive a penny of this money I will tell you. [[Noise and lines.]] You are only the rubber seal, which during this time seals all this outrage throughout the past year, because this process has begun since then. Because the money will be distributed somewhere, and you will not participate, and thank God, but think about the role you have in this Parliament, and about the places you occupy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And to be quite sure that it is you who are giving the opportunity to receive commissions of hundreds of millions in this particular case, although they are many cases, but in this case now, I would like to tell you that in order not to have such a distribution of funds, we submitted a bill that had to correct the Public Finance Act two months ago. All this redistribution of funds thus takes place on the basis of art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. Two months ago, BSP submitted a proposal proposing a change in this article. 109 so as to limit the possibility of redistribution of funds only within 1% of the revenue side of the budget. As we have said, the funds you are currently allocating are 10% of the revenue side of the budget, that is, if this bill, which you do not have time to put into the House for two months to consider, if it were examined and adopted, now this whole thing would not be possible. I can only tell you one thing: this redistribution will be called and will remain in history as the theft of the year. Personally, I'm not saying it's the Theft of the Century, because at the beginning of next year the distribution of 10 billion is coming, so the theft of the century is coming. This is the theft of the year and you, gentlemen of the majority, with your own fingers, with the fingerprint you are voting with, have this responsibility! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Gurnevsky. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Gurnevski, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Bulgarian decent ministers, honourable colleagues, dear young people! [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] That's what populists do to the stands, spit out the poison and run! [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the Chamber.]] Well, wait till you hear if you're Democrats! Where are you running? [[Noise and lines.]] You're talking about theft of the year. The theft of the century happened much earlier than 1989, when you repainted yourself, 20 years you plundered the country! [[(Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: This is the last century, Gurnevski! It's the last century!]] There were, ladies and gentlemen, two truths in this declaration that you have read. One is: you admitted that the Bulgarian government is working magnificently and has made 2 billion surpluses! From where? From the fight against corruption and the grey economy, what never happens to you! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]] Secondly, this money that the Bulgarian government spends here is a longtime minister and manager in the field of finance [[turns to Minister Kiril Ananiev]] and will tell you that they are being spent absolutely legally and so far no one has accused the Bulgarian government of spending in this way, and it is under the laws of the country. Thirdly, this money goes to policies, sector.. for teachers, police, for socially weak people. I'll read you numbers later to make sure. They are for infrastructure projects that the whole country is waiting for, because if there is no infrastructure, no business, no economy, no money for new social activities, so thank you for reading these achievements of the government. It did not hand them out personally to Dragomir Stoinev, Vesela Lecheva, Anton Kutev, Cornelia Ninova in the form of personal income, in the form of internal and foreign trading companies. It gives them to the Bulgarian people and to Bulgarian policies. And now last Friday at Panorama... There's one more thing you said about three rich people. To remind you of them. The whole of Bulgaria saw them: the Banev family, the Arabadzhievi family, Benchev family, Stykovi! Here are the untold, unexplainable untold riches! And all of these high oligarchs, all of them, come from the Bulgarian Communist Party and State Security! You're right, there are four people rich, and they're these people right now. You didn't mention a name. Last Friday, the president started an interview at Panorama. When I listened to his high-pitched, otherwise well-read phrases, a memory emerged in my mind from the distant year 1992, when the first democratic Bulgarian President Philip Dimitrov had decided to launch decisive reforms against the communist nomenclature and was swept away by power. A government made up of today's opposition came to power, and 20 years later all observers agreed that it was the government that created the Bulgarian mafia, which, through the banking system and through mass and cash privatization, pillaged the state! All that the Bulgarian people had created to remember it, young people! [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] Today, 26 years later, when the government of GERB with its partners has already been given third term trust by the people to heal the country from its wounds of 64 years of obvious and disguised government of BCP-BSP, when democratic reforms give visible results when Bulgaria, with its successful Euro-presidentship and with other initiatives, has gained undisputed international authority, when our internal economic status shows stable growth, when the incomes of the people are getting higher, with higher steps growing compared to the management of the demagogic and arrogant opposition, when already a year and a half of those to whom the people have refused to entrust power for the third time in a row, you are circling the people and inciting them against the legitimate government. The president appeared last Friday with a crystal clear white robe and a chiefly glamorous look in the eyes led by all who long longed to erase the achievements of today's rulers. In contrast to his constitutional powers as a uniter, with his first words with a sharp and arrogant tone he began to instill suggestion and distrust, to draw dividing lines against the rulers. He had become more and more involved in the hidden role of an opposition leader, driven by a predatory pursuit of power and influence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u68	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u69	Each third sentence started with a "Corruption." Of course, like you today, he didn't mention a single name. Mr. Radev, with what eyes, populist, manipulating our people, you, the self-appointed anti-corruption fighter, pass the fact that for the first time in these 30 years of transition, a large-scale Anti-Corruption Act has been operating in our country for a year now. This law was passed with the will of you GERB and the other parties in parliament after wide public discussion and support. The only party that voted against this law was your BSP, which supported you for president. Moreover, you, the President, who has shown juggling the corruption system, vetoed this particular law because you and your party knew perfectly well who would fall under his blows. Today, the whole of Bulgaria has become speechless before the colossal riches of these four oligarchs arrested, others are looking for them, related to the nomenclature of BCP, the former State Security and the plundering of Bulgarian wealth. Perhaps when we talk about programs, numbers and the steps in which the incomes of Bulgarian citizens grow, I should remind you: at Oresharski in 2013. 2014 the minimum salary.. 310 BGN, average 600; in 2019 GERB with Borisov the minimum salary................................................................................................................................................................................................................................; 2021 in accordance with the Programme minimum, average " 1500 BGN" These estimates are based on 120 billion gross domestic product. As soon as next year, they will be achieved, which means that in the fourth year, the product will be higher. Then all these numbers that I read to you will be natural and higher. Can we jump all incomes in Bulgaria earlier? You ask, Mr. Radev. Of course you can. If all criminally looted the state and mainly related to your BSP, return a third of what is assigned, all income in the country will become three times higher than the lowest pension to the President's salary itself. Only you and your party are vetoing such an opportunity. On Friday, you said you didn't care about the government's program, but the opposition's vision, promoting a change of system. Which system, Mr. President? The one of the obvious growth today or the one from the criminal transition whose writers, directors, for the third time, performers of the main roles in the looting of Bulgaria are today's authors of the new vision? Mr. Radev, by respecting the home institutions, I am taking the liberty of giving you a piece of advice, read the Constitution in person, and do not interpret through the eyes of incompetent advisors! Enter your role as unifying nation and exit from that of a generator of tension, confrontation and chaos in the country at a time when it really shows ever more confident steps in its development. Remotely from the policy of the double archin, with which you are fixed in the straw in the eye of the opponent, and do not see the beam in your own! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Thank you for wanting to hear from me. [[Radio, laughter.]] Finally understand that it is not your duty to intrigue the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Montesquieu has defined their independence perfectly. The presidency is a new, democratic institution and you must protect its authority by focusing on the powers given to you by the Constitution of Bulgaria. And one more thing, don't forget: if someone dares to turn the presidency into a family hacienda, there's no way, sooner or later, they won't end up in the oncoming movement! [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Radev, in 1992, as enthusiastic naives and intoxicated by the flown democracy, we did not understand at all how routine cops with the help of refined traitors brought down the first democratic government. Remember that today, however, these communist tricks can never go any further! The folk saying says: "Money's porridge is the spirit!" Today, Bulgaria is more and more responsible with a prime minister, who has proved himself to be a true reformer, and a responsible majority, a majority to which the people three times in a row entrust the helm of the state. Not only this full term, but at least two more will be needed to heal the damage that has been done all these years by the untalented rule and the reincarnations of the infinite red hypocrite! [[(Applause from GERB. Announcements by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. We're continuing with parliamentary control. We continue with a question from the MP Dimitar...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u71	There was a full consensus in the Chamber on the facts I submitted, and I thank you, my friends!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u72	Mr. Gurnevsky, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u73	You heard, young people. [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] Everyone agrees with that, including the party. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u74	What procedure? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Parliamentary control procedure. Here you go. [[Replys from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u75	Order! Order! Some colleagues have given in to Mr. Gurnevsky's emotions. Let them respect discipline.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u76	Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u77	Madam President, in the manner of conduct, you were obliged to say an untruth that was just said. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Philip Dimitrov himself wants a vote of confidence and changed it to his blue, red, and I don't know what ants... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u78	Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u79	And you had to explain to these young people not to fool them that some...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u80	Mr. Genov, the way you're holding me, you have to turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u81	...unclean force has taken down Philip Dimitrov. He wants a vote of no confidence, and he's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u82	Mr. Genov, the procedure in the manner of conduct suggests that you address the meeting. You broke it. You abused this procedure. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Lyubomir Bonev on the implementation of the legal rules for the structure and construction of Sofia Municipality. Please come in and ask the question. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u83	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The adopted texts of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality have been in force since 10 April this year and had purpose, or so was written in the reasons of the Law of the importers of the management majority, the following: changes in the nature of construction and other construction indicators on a significant territory, the creation of a new type of visa for design without amending a detailed planning plan, a different regime of construction of corner plots was adopted, a different regime for changing the purpose of green systems, a different regime for the purpose of agricultural land, a different regime for admission of temporary constructions and many others. Two regulations were also envisaged, namely a regulation on the urban environment with rules and the appearance of urban spaces, buildings and architectural ensembles, that is, a regulation governing the uniform appearance of the buildings in the territory of Sofia Municipality; a regulation for carrying out research, analysis and simulation of transport services in relation to ensuring the possibility of providing the required number of parking spaces for reducing traffic, limiting upholstery in Sofia. More than six months from the entry into force of the Law, we are still waiting for these regulations. They're gone. Madam Minister, given the delay in the adoption of the regulations of the Law on the Construction of Sofia Municipality, my question to you is: is there any problems and is the application secured, the implementation of the regulations concerning the structure and construction of Sofia Municipality adopted and in force on 10 April this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bonev and Mr. Danchev, your question is related to the implementation of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, which lays down specific rules and regulations for the construction and construction of its territory, given the delay in the adoption of the regulations on the implementation of the Law. The Law provides for the application of its separate provisions to issue regulations adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council. For example, on the basis of art. 5, para. Regulation on the terms and conditions for the provision of data and the provision of reference for the provision of the General Development Plan was adopted by Decision No 950 of the Sofia Municipal Council under Protocol No 120 of 11 October 2007. On the basis of art. 5, para. 4 was adopted Ordinance on the order and manner of conducting public discussions in Sofia Municipality for the definition of the interested communities for public consultation and for the determination of the results of the public consultation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of art. A regulation on the construction and conservation of the green system was adopted on the territory of Sofia Municipality... Decision No 950 of the Sofia Municipal Council, Protocol No 120 of 11 October 2007. In implementing the changes made by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality from 2018, the Sofia Municipal Council must adopt the following regulations: - on the grounds of art. 16e, para. 2 Ordinance for carrying out research, analysis and simulation of transport services, which is required for the approval of detailed development plans, providing for the construction of public service buildings with a built-up area of more than 20 thousand. kv. m and/or height above 50 m; - on the grounds of art. 17b, para. 1 and 2 Regulation on the specific requirements for the face of urban spaces, buildings and architectural ensembles. According to § 30 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, those regulations under art. Art. 16e. 17b shall be adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council within 6 months of its entry into force. The drafting of the regulations is within the powers of the municipal administration and their adoption is therefore entirely within the powers of the Sofia Municipal Council. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has not received any information on difficulties concerning the drafting of regulations, as well as information on difficulties and delays in the investment process related to the delay in the adoption of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Danchev. A chance for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, your answer was somewhat formal. You have read us what regulations the Law provides for to be adopted, which of them were adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council and which were not adopted. It is a fact that you finally pointed out that the deadline for the adoption of all the regulations has still expired, and it has long since been more than two months. Why, however, these are the two regulations that you have pointed out, which concern the transport and communication services of newly built large buildings, which you pointed out over 20 thousand. kv. m, over 50 m high, and the one concerning the urban environment, the rules and the shape of the urban spaces, the corresponding architectural layouts and ensembles? It seems to me that these two regulations are precisely key to this bill, which concerns the structure and construction of Sofia Municipality. It is these regulations that actually contain the key to legal changes. Agree that one of the biggest problems of Sofia Municipality is precisely the transport accessibility of the individual regions. There is no more an almost metropolitan area, especially in the peripheral parts of the city, which are close to the central part of the city, which do not complain about the extreme disturbance of traffic around them, and at the same time it is this regulation that has been missed. I think it's an open door to corruption. How is building permits currently being granted in the absence of regulations for these precisely transport issues and the service of large buildings? Why did you, as an importer, see here my colleague Nenkov, as importers of the Bill on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, not foresee precisely the framework of the transitional period until the adoption of the ordinance by Sofia Municipality? For me this creates serious doubts regarding the work of the Law and the Sofia Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u88	Thank you. Minister Avramova, please respond to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u89	Dear Mr. Bonev, Mr. Danchev! At the end of my speech, I stressed that the Ministry of Regional Development had no information about difficulties if such tests were made by the Sofia Municipal Council to adopt such a regulation. I have no information whether the Sofia Municipality is having difficulties, the Sofia Municipal Council and why there is a delay in the adoption of this regulation. The fact is that there is such an amendment in the Law, the fact is that Sofia Municipality has worked before the amendment in the Law. You can request information from the Sofia Municipality, from the Sofia Municipal Council how far has the adoption of this regulation reached, its development. The Ministry doesn't have that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u90	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva concerning a limitation of the highway Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from September 24th this year at Trakia Motorway throughout the section from Chirpan to Stara Zagora, a limit of 90 km per hour has been imposed, which was explained to us by the media that it is introduced because of the bumps on the road. The bumps on the highway from Plovdiv to Stara Zagora are visible, but, notice, the limit of 90 km is only 40 km from the route of 168 km, which begins shortly after the turnoff for the highway of Maritsa and continues to 208 km, and this is in both directions. The plates indicating that the speed should be reduced to 90 km per hour are located every two kilometers from the restricted section. As a result of the inaction of the case by the Ministry of Transport and the Agency, a wave of serious discontent and disapproval has started to rise in social networks. And one more thing, I was talked to by business representatives who expressed their opinion that the problem is not solved with restriction, but urgent repairs are needed before the introduction of tolls. People think they should pay for quality roads and highways, not for topographical signs of roads. You are probably aware that the non-respective 90km limit of what is called the highway is waiting for fines from the DMV employees who are already filming at the station with their modern equipment. Thus, people feel that this was done intentionally by the two ministries of transport and home affairs in order to collect money. In this regard, my question is: on what date will the restriction be lifted and this route will function as a highway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva, for the exact timing. Here you are, Minister Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Georgieva, you are absolutely right in all the findings you have just made in the exhibition in your question about this section of the highway. We take into account the inconveniences it creates for travelers every change in the organisation of movement and speed limitation on Republican roads for a certain period of time. All the measures taken are with one single goal of reducing speed and ensuring safe travel. The speed limit of 90 km per hour on Trakia Motorway, left and right lane, as you said, is in the section from km 168 to km 208, or this is between Chirpan and Stara Zagora. The length is about 40 km. The measure was taken due to bumps and tracks formed along the pavement. The temporary movement organisation was implemented under the Order of 27 September 2018 of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which was addressed by the Directorate General of the National Police. The term of office of that order shall be until 20 December of this year. From the date of introduction of the temporary organisation, there has been a significant reduction in the number of road accidents registered. For this reason, and given the winter season, experts are of the opinion that it is appropriate to extend the operation of the order and to continue to be limited to 30 March 2019. In this regard, experts will make a proposal to the management of the The Road Infrastructure Agency is taking into account the need for repair of the highway of Trakia. In the section of Chirpan Stara Zagora. This site has been put into operation 2011 and according to art. 20, para. 3 of Ordinance No 2 of 31 July 2003 on the commissioning of construction works in Bulgaria and the minimum warranty time for completed construction and installation works The guarantee period of this section has expired. He was five. During the period of guarantee, the contractor of the construction has removed faults at his own expense. At the moment, this guarantee period has expired and the Road Infrastructure Agency is actually taking care of the current repair and maintenance. Local repairs for 682 800 BGN were made in November this year in order to improve the road flooring. The Road Infrastructure Agency is ready to launch preventive repair of the section, but a serious financial resource is needed for its implementation, with which the Agency does not currently have.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Georgieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Avramova, thank you for your reply, but I do not understand when the route is expected to be repaired between section Chirpan and Stara Zagora. Indeed, there is such a need, and the solution is not to extend the deadline of 20 December to do so on 20 March and then extend it again, but to repair it and to start operating as a highway. Please pay serious attention, because this route is extremely dangerous and if people who respect the 90km limit do so, there are many who do not comply with it, and this route becomes extremely risky. I assume you're aware that the right lane is very uneven along the way. When someone approaches you at a very high speed, you need to move quickly, which already leads to the prerequisites for a traffic accident. We'll be happy to have this precinct running like a freeway soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Georgieva, as I have already said in my reply, we are ready to begin construction activities immediately when providing resources around 60 million. BGN, which is the indicative value for the repair of the road. In accordance with the possibilities of Budget 2019 or with targeted funding, the Agency will take action to restore the road surface and the performance of the compromised area. We know this is a precinct with intense traffic. We appeal to drivers to comply with the speed limit. There is no lack of desire, lack of capacity, lack of opportunities for organization for such repairs. Rather, in 2019, in the assessment of the funds available to the Road Infrastructure Agency in our budget, we will make an estimate in order to be able to repair this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u98	Thank you. We have completed the procedure for the answers of Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. We thank her for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. He will answer first of all a question from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov about the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. Here you are, General Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In relation to the outstanding liquidation process and the need to solve the case with the building fund of the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, we ask you the following question: what measures have you taken to quickly solve the problem of ending the liquidation and what are your intentions to restore the building fund and the terrain around it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u100	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me before I answer the particular question within the time that I have today on the three issues, to say a few sentences on the subject which Mr. Kutev put. As former Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance, I assure you that the government's decision, which was taken on Thursday, does not contradict either the Budget Act for 2018 or the Public Finance Act. This Decision is within the framework of and the additional expenditure that has been incurred is within the parameters of the 2018 budget for revenue, expenditure and deficit. You know very well that the Public Finance Act expressly prohibits the government from spending the over-execution of the revenues that have been realised during the relevant year. This can only happen here in plenary with your participation. And the fact that there is overrun of revenues and it is due to improved activity in terms of corruption practices in our country leads to a reduction of the planned budget deficit for 2018. From 1% deficit provided for by the Budget Act, it will be with a small surplus for 2018. So let's not manipulate the people, but for what these funds were given to me, I think that none of you doubt that these are the priorities of the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian people, because we really need to revive Northern Bulgaria and build the northern highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u102	Now get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u103	With regard to the question asked. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! By the 2010 Decision of the sole owner of the capital of the "Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Pulmonary Diseases', the company was terminated by liquidation. Three liquidators have been designated: Dr. Mitko Baev supplied and replaced by Dr. Georgi Georgiev, Milena Manginova and Veselka Tsoneva, which is in accordance with the current provision of art. 55, para. 3 which is repealed by the Law on Medical Institutions. By the deadline set for the closure of the liquidation, the debts of the liquidators have not been fulfilled. For the entire period since the liquidation procedure was opened, these liquidators have consistently failed to fulfil their obligations under the contract without any objective reasons for that, despite their repeated referral by the Ministry of Health. The order of Art. 55, para. 1 repealed by the Law on Medical Institutions, did not allow the liquidation period to be extended again, with the maximum duration being 18 months. Following the annulment of this provision, the abovementioned persons were exempted as liquidators, their number was reduced by three to one and Marian Momirov was appointed liquidator and the term of liquidation was extended. The company's current liquidator found that the accounting and other documentation was left on the territory of the hospital complex, but at the same time was looted. The company is free of cash, which makes it difficult to complete the liquidation process. At present, the Ministry of Health has taken action to extend the liquidation procedure and has provided funding for the necessary actions to complete it, and the procedure is expected to be finalised at the beginning of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna make the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u105	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will replicate everything the Minister has said after he has allowed himself to speak on all subjects. I'd like to point out to him that he didn't understand what we said in our declaration. He did not realize that it was about spending over a billion leva in the end with a decision of the Council of Ministers, which did not pass through the budget and were not set in the budget for 2018. This was our protest because this is a public resource and the most normal way to be spent is by decision of the National Assembly. That is why we have tabled that bill, in which only 1% of the surplus can be spent by decision of the Council of Ministers, but obviously spending money by decree of the Council of Ministers is a good way to buy political peace. And I am not convinced that these are Bulgaria's priorities to build a new highway for a billion and something, to give money for it and to forget to give 60 million for the highway, which we talked about just a moment ago with Minister Avramova, something that is extremely important, so that at least one of our highways will be like a highway. As for the question and the answer we have received, Mr. Minister, does it mean that I expect you to answer me in the back of my jacket that at the beginning of 2019 the problem of the hospital, the so-called "Tubdispanser," as it is known in Sliven, will be resolved and this ulcer will disappear from the centre of Sliven at least as a place where drug addicts are collected? Not to mention that there are still scattered chemicals and documents that are related to personal data on the ground. I've seen it, I've got pictures I can show you. Does it mean from your response that in 2019 this will be decided, there will be no ruins, everything will be as it should be in a normal civilized city as Sliven is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here's your coat, dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First I apologize to Mr. Milev for not addressing him and he asked the question. But the answer to Mr. Ermenkov's question is absolutely yes! And not in 2019, but in early 2019! And with regard to the budget, you know that the law is passed here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u108	Mr. Ananiev, I was tolerant, but this conversation must continue beyond the parliamentary control procedure. Thank you, although with criticism, for allowing yourself to return the subject. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the treatment of Silver-Russell's disease syndrome. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the reason for my question to you is the problem of a simple Bulgarian family from Stara Zagora, whose child is diagnosed with Silver-Russell's disease disease, which is expressed in a slowdown in growth, which is why treatment with growth hormone genotropine is assigned a service that is normally paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. However, the family was surprised to find that just for their child, just for his illness, this hormone is not taken by the Health Insurance Fund. And after the doctors directed him to the Center for the Treatment of Children Fund and approved the funding for conducting DNA studies, which is carried out in the Genetic Medical and Diagnostic Laboratory.. Genika, the diagnosis of the child is confirmed. It really suffers from Silver-Russell syndrome there is a slowdown in growth and it is necessary to treat with growth hormone. The medicine is extremely expensive, but is not taken over by the Health Insurance Fund for this disease. This leads parents to turn for help and support to the annual charity initiative of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. "Bulgarian Christmas" because the financing of such treatment is not within the family's capabilities. From there, they approve and release the necessary amount of hormone for growth for eight months. For one reason or another, the application of the hormone is postponed for an indefinite period, which requires and leads to the fact that they should donate the hormones allocated by the Bulgarian Christmas, because their shelf life may expire until they have to use them. There are no guarantees that they will be approved a second time and whether they will be approved every time for years if this treatment needs to be used. I have no idea how many children there are in this country with the same diagnosis. I'm sure you have no idea either, or at least until now, you have no idea, but I am sure that the problem and concerns of these families and children who will eventually be treated by this disease are similar. The question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what is the reason why the positive growth hormone genetropine is not released free of charge for Silver-Russell's disease syndrome and will this disease be supplemented in the positive list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u111	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! Silver-Russell's disease syndrome is a rare hereditary disease falling under the MKB-10 section of CP No 81.1 According to the database, the incidence of the disease is from 1 to 30 per 100 000 people, promoted by Directive 2011/24 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. For our country of information to medical professionals serving children with this syndrome, about 20 children are diagnosed with this disease. In order to ensure diagnosis and hospital treatment of children with this syndrome, the disease is included in the scope of clinical path No 12.. Diagnosis and treatment of a child with congenital abnormalities. Under the Health Insurance Act, the NHIF pays medicinal products for home treatment for diseases included in the list of diseases for which the National Health Insurance Fund pays in full or in part the medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. The list of diseases is determined by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF in accordance with the criteria laid down by Decree No 7 of 2015. In order to enable patients with rare diseases to receive medicines for home treatment reimbursed by the NHIF, Regulation No 7 lists a separate order and criteria for rare diseases consistent with their specifics. As a basic criterion, the relevant rare disease is laid down in the list of rare diseases established in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is validated by the Minister of Health under Regulation No 16 of 2014. For the conditions and procedures for registration of rare diseases and for expert centres and reference networks for rare diseases. That Regulation No 16 lays down the inclusion in the list of rare diseases following an application submitted to the Minister of Health requesting the inclusion of the disease concerned. So far, the Ministry of Health has not requested the inclusion of Silver-Russell syndrome in the list of rare diseases established in the Republic of Bulgaria under Regulation No 16. In this regard, I will inform the National Consultant on Child Endocrinology of the need to prepare within a short period the information required under Regulation No 16 on Silver-Russell syndrome in order to make a reasoned and reasoned decision on the possibility of including the disease in the list of rare diseases under this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u112	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, you know why I'm asking the question. I'm setting it right to make a signal. I was going to ask you who I should make this request to, but you explained to me that you signaled where you needed to be. I very much hope that the solution will be positive because when it comes to 20 Bulgarian children who have a problem, they and their whole family, because I understand that the treatment is in the order of 4. lv. a year, which is not within the reach of most Bulgarian families, so I will say it. Thank you for the statistics that you told us because I really, all the more so that I am not a medical person and I do not know about this disease, but it became clear that 20 are children in Bulgaria. Let's solve the problem, because I met these people, and they wrote you a letter that's purely human. They don't even pretend, they don't blame anyone, they just want to solve their problems somehow. Something that may be a little off the subject, but right on the subject of Silver-Russell syndrome, I have a feeling, I may not be right that in Bulgaria, people with rare diseases do not have enough attention, in the sense of providing them with free medicines. In most cases, their treatment is quite expensive because they are specific and weakly distributed, and medicines are expensive and remain out of sight of the mass release of free medicines, clinical pathways and so on. These people don't need less than everyone else from attention, attitude and so on. Perhaps in the future they should be paid a little more attention to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you don't want the back. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov concerning the establishment of registers of patients with various diseases in Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u115	Thank you, Madam President. This parliamentary control is about to become unique with speeches that are not related to the particular issue. Now I'm gonna take the liberty because, as they said yesterday, there's a tickle coming. It's very scary when two non-medical individuals collide on the problems of rare diseases. I would like to ask you because you are a very precise person to advise your associates not to give you such numbers, because if you really were from 1 to 30 per cent, Silver-Russell wouldn't be a rare disease. It's from 1 in 50 thousand to 1 in a hundred thousand and therefore there are criteria for a rare disease. When such things are said on the air, very serious anxiety can be caused among people. Now let's get to the point that is related to the previous question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u116	This is a European regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u117	It is not a European regulation! You say what the frequency of Silver-Russell in the world is. From 1 to 30 does not answer the truth, simply because it would not be a rare disease, let us not argue on this issue, and as a member of the Committee on Rare Diseases for so many years. The question that I allow myself to ask you is that we have discussed it with you not a few times, is the problem of the records of the sick in the various groups of diseases............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Unfortunately, the problem with registers still stands in a very serious way in Bulgaria. I don't want to go into detail and develop the issue, I'll allow myself to talk about it. I am interested in you, as the principal of the Ministry of Health, what measures have you taken to structuring these registers? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u118	Thank you. Here you are, dear Minister Ananiev, to answer again the question of registers and only the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, integration between the systems and registers of the main actors in the healthcare system and the commitment between them is essential for improving the activities of the organization, control, planning and forecasting of the processes in health care. The creation of a Single Integration Information System will ensure the collection of credible and comprehensive statistical and operational information, which will support all operational and strategic decision-making processes. The system will help implement and implement both health technology assessment processes and monitor the effect of therapy in patients. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 have made changes to a number of legal provisions in the field of health in order to achieve financial and organisational efficiency. With the introduction of these changes art. 28 of the Health Act establishes a National Health Information System, which is administered and maintained by the Ministry of Health and in which it will be collected, processed and stored information about the health status of the population by creating and maintaining an electronic health record for each citizen. The information system will include the electronic health records of citizens and all registers, information databases and systems for which it is provided in a legal act that are kept by the Ministry of Health and its secondary authorising officers, by the medical and health institutions, by the National Health Insurance Fund and by the insurance companies authorised under point 1. 2 or t. 1 and 2 of Section II, b. In the case of an insurance undertaking, the amount of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's own contribution shall be equal to the amount of the eligible own funds to be covered by the undertaking's specific reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles, as defined in Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35, provided that the following conditions are met: For the establishment and maintenance of the electronic health records of citizens, medical and health institutions will submit information to the Ministry of Health, the type of information, the way it is provided, as well as the terms and conditions for the provision and registration, the information databases and systems included in the national health insurance system will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. The right of free access to the national health information system will be granted to the citizens of the national health information system. The information in the electronic health record, the medical and health institutions and the National Health Insurance Fund in the event of and on the occasion of carrying out their functions, thirdly, the insurance companies already mentioned and, fourthly, the state authorities of which by law provides access to registers of national importance. In the implementation of the national health objectives the development of e-health and e-government in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Health has launched a project, you know very well about the implementation of the national health information system, first and second stages, with a period of implementation of the activities until 28 December 2019. A national health information system will be established within the framework of the project, which will lay the foundations for the development of eHealth. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The answer will be given in my right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u120	You'll continue in the back. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I listened carefully to your answer. In fact, it is related to art. 28 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, but I want to protect you from the possibility of imagining, I hope this is not so that the creation of a software product, which will be created, will automatically incorporate the data needed to construct the different registers. Note that in various diseases, the extent of expansion of a register is quite different, as this is determined by the biological aggression of the disease, its frequency, its clinical evolution. Therefore, my persistent advice to you is if I allow myself to give it as a doctor with more than 30 years of practice: contact the scientific companies in the relevant specialities, as it will prove that even with the most perfect procedures carried out and the creation of this software product, when it needs to be filled In my view, as a professional, this register should be central, should be under the control of the Ministry of Health and with very serious hardware protection, as these are data that are extremely personal and are very serious. In order for this to happen, however, and within the foreseeable future, I do not want to quote my esteemed Dr. Jeffer, who yesterday put these questions to you during the blitz control, this must be preceded by a very thorough, very serious and hard work of specialized scientific companies on the specified specialties. This will bring success to the entire activity, otherwise things will remain only on hanging software that is not full of data. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u122	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to supplement the information you presented.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u123	Professor Mihailov, I will use your advice so that the final product is truly quality and performs the functions that we assign to it. On 12 October 2018, a public procurement contract with subject: selection of contractors for the development of information systems and subsystems of three of the activities included in the project, including three separate positions, i.e.: Company position No 1 Adaptive, web-based information system will be developed and implemented in the performance of the activity with an environment for self-establishment and management of registers by the contracting entity or a person authorised by the contracting entity in the sector. Special position No 2 "Selecting a contractor of Activity 6 "Supporting of an electronic administrative service subsystem", and A separate position No 3 "Selecting a contractor of an activity 8 "Creating a health information portal". On 21 November 2018, a notice was published to suspend the procedure in respect of proceedings initiated in the Commission for Protection of Competition. We hope that the authorities responsible for the dispute will allow it, subject to the legal deadlines for what gives us the opportunity, in favor of the Ministry of Health, to continue and finalise the successful public procurement, which will provide an essential part of the establishment of the national health information system.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u124	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Allow me to thank Mr. Kiril Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control and the answers he gave. We continue with questions to Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He will first answer a question from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva on urgent measures to solve a problem with clogged drain canal in the town of Koynare, municipality of Cherven briag, leading to flooding of the homes of residents in the district of Vaptsarov. Here you are, dear Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, as MP from Plevenski constituency, I was contacted by residents of Koynare, Cherven Bryag Municipality, requesting urgent measures to be taken in connection with the flooding of their homes from water coming from the drainage channel, which is located in the district of Vaptsarov. On 8 May this year they sent a petition to the mayor of the town of Koynare, municipality of Cherven briag, and to the district governor of Pleven region with a request to take urgent measures. By order of the mayor of Cherven Bryag, a commission was drawn up with the task of carrying out an on-the-spot check and on documents concerning the problem of the clogged drainage channel. A subsequent file between the institutions initially claimed that the clogged channel was owned by the MoEW, after which, on 22 June, the file sent to the MoEW received a reply that the channel was operated by the Irrigation Systems. On 11 July this year, the mayor of the Municipality of Cherven Bryag appointed a commission to carry out a review of the damage caused to municipal roads and homes, as well as in the villages of Rakita, Radomirtsi, Telish, Brestne and a signal on phone 112 from Koynare in connection with heavy rains, which were on July 7, 8 and 9. The Commission notes the following: four homes have been flooded on the street of Druzhba and five homes on the street of Captain Petko Voyvoda. In this regard, on 31 July 2018, the mayor of the Municipality of Cherven Bryag sent to the district governor a letter with information about the disaster events and the need to restore the infrastructure affected by the disasters. On 27 July the mayor of the Municipality of Cherven Bryag sent to the manager of the Department of Irrigation Systems................................................................................................................................................................ Either way, no measures have been taken on the date of my question. It makes an unpleasant impression that the systematic transfer of the problem from an institution to an institution, as well as the refusal of the will to resolve it, and the risk of heavy precipitation under water remains more than 200 houses. Such negligence and incoherence of officials and institutions is a problem that affects all the layers of our society and therefore, when such adverse events occur, but, unfortunately, then the question of responsibility arises. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, my question to you is: what measures and when will be taken to solve the problem of the clogged canal in the town of Koinare, Cherven bryag municipality, which floods the homes of residents in the district of Vaptsarov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Krasteva, on the territory of the municipality of Cherven Bryag there are built sites to protect against the harmful effects of the waters with the rights to manage the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests and to operate the The drainage channels are part of White Slatina's irrigation system. The same performs their purpose as and in the wettest and rainiest seasons are relatively empty. Following an on-the-spot check by representatives of the "Irrigation systems" "Mesia branch," the channel described in your question does not form part of Byala Slatina's irrigation system. To the north of the town of Koynare is situated Enishko Dere, in which the rays and rainwaters flow from the adjacent territories along it, taking them to the river Iskar. The flooded homes of the citizens in the district of Vaptsarov "of the town of Koynare are located in the northeast of the city. Between Enishko Dere and the homes of the citizens in the district of Vaptsarov there is no drainage network or channels owned by the Ministry, operated by the Irrigation Systems. In this section is established, a water site formed over time, which is not a water storage facility to prevent the harmful effects of water. The site is grounded by surface water and is drained, leading to filtration and flooding of homes and basements in nearby houses. Public government ownership is the systems and facilities to prevent the harmful effects of the water built by state funds, protective dikes, corrections of rivers and drainage systems, according to art. 13, para. 1, t. 3 of the Water Act. The site is not public-owned and is not included in the capital of the Ministry and is not operated by the Irritative Systems. However, thanks to your signal and the file we had, after talking to the residents of the town of Koynare, who suffered from this gully, and in the presence of an employee from the technical service of the City Hall, the Irrigation Systems During about 500 meters Enishko Dere is cleaned of vegetation and deposits with a digger. Excavation activities were carried out in the ravine with a width of between 2 and 4 meters and a length of 500 meters. A watershed has been made to pass animals and equipment through the ravine. With the available equipment, Irritative systems, the Mysia branch, have performed the above described activities, I would say in good faith to ensure the conduction of the ravine as an element of protection of the harmful effects of the water, although, as I said, the site is not operated by us. Once again, I would like to conclude that perhaps with what has been done with this dug channel, there is no more playing at the moment. Again, I would like to thank you for your intervention on the ground so that these actions can be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Krasteva, regarding the town of Koynare.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u129	Thank you for the tolerance you gave me as time. Now I won't take all the time. Mr. Minister, I would like to express my gratitude for the adequate response, because it is precisely this action that proves that it is a matter of political will and responsibility to solve such pressing problems beyond bureaucracy, which makes it difficult to resolve them. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question to Minister Porozhanov. He is from the Parliamentary Representative Nadia Klisurska concerning the sector of Beekeeping. He is required measures for support and protection. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u131	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I believe that my question is extremely important, up-to-date and ill. At a meeting a month ago with the members of the Union of Bulgarian beekeepers from Pazardzhik District, a position was expressed for many problems in the sector. This was shown by last week's protest over 13,000 beekeepers expressed their position on these issues. Bees are the main spoilers of nature. More than 80% of entomophile plants are pollinated and more than 70% of our daily food is also dependent on them. In recent years, bee families have been decreasing steadily. There are many reasons, but there is one reason that is not pointed out, and these are the beekeepers. Ninety-nine percent of bees are grown by beekeepers and only 1% of bees live freely. If there are no beekeepers, there are no bees. If there are no bees, humanity will disappear. That's what Einstein says. The majority of beekeepers are aged 10, 20, 30 bee families. Very few beekeepers have 100, 150 and more hives, and only they participate in the programs and receive funds. One apiary pollinates plants within a radius of three kilometers or about 28 square meters. What is more important, then, is a beehive of 200 hives or 10 beehives of 20 hives of 5 miles that will pollute hundreds of square miles? Beekeepers with a few hives do not register as farmers because they have additional costs that are impossible for them. I do not want to mention the changes that have been made to the IPO budget and the insurance burden on farmers in 2019. For many years, many beekeepers have not received any funds for the service of the beekeepers. The State receives more than 1 billion from the service. lv. revenue. Without bees, we wouldn't have fruits, vegetables, oil plants, nuts. At the initial meeting of the Union of Bulgarian Beekeepers as the most urgent and extremely important measures were identified: ensuring a decent pay for each family for the service of the Bulgarian beekeepers, for the protection of biodiversity, the registration of bees on the ground and the control for registration of bees as establishments. In this regard, my question, Mr. Minister, is: what is your position on these three urgent measures, is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry planning for their implementation, what are the first steps of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests' policy to support, protect and develop the Beekeeping sector and more, several problems which were during the protests related to the very large number of poisoned bees, low copper yields this year and as I mentioned, the insurance burden?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u133	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, undoubtedly the subject of beekeeping is a very large and very broad topic which, with these nearly three minutes that we have, both you and I, cannot be covered. The policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as a whole is in line with the policy of the European Union in the Beekeeping sector. As of 1 October 2017, bee families in the country were around 766 000 or 1.5% more compared to 2016. Data for 2018 also showed that there was no decrease in the number of bee families. The statistical census is now in progress. The copper produced is 12,000 tonnes, which is 15.6% more than the previous year. This is the 2017 2016 data. Separately under the 11 "Biological agriculture" campaign in 2017 were authorized 961 applications and 134 000 bee families were supported, worth nearly 6.5 million. To date, beekeeping has been supported in all possible ways by European and Bulgarian legislation. On the basis of the livestock law, the Agricultural Aid Act, the Beekeeping Act, where bees are treated as farmed animals grown to obtain a certain type of animal production, we have not reached the level of treating bees as pollinators and not as producers of a product. In the agricultural sector pollination is a special type of ecosystem service where the benefits for cultural plants, where they are carried out, are obtained from those who grow these crops. In this respect, in art. 17 of the Beekeeping Act for the pollination of crops is provided for the farmer to pay the respective beekeeper the negotiating service. At present in our country this service is not developed that is undeniable. Plant producers do not look for beekeepers for pollination of their crops. Another measure in which the Ministry stimulates and supports mobile beekeeping and, in particular, bee pollination, is the application of a State aid scheme, namely aid in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production, such as the reduced excise rate for gas oil, amounts to BGN 2,36. of a bee family for 2017 and BGN 2.28 for 2018 The registration regime in relation to the cultivation of bees and bees shall be carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of art. 137 of the Law on Veterinary Practice and in the Order of Art. 8 of the Beekeeping Act by entering in a special register of bees and bees at the respective town hall. The specific requirements for bees are laid down in Ordinance No 10 of 2015 on the conditions for registration and the order for identification of bees. In accordance with art. 2 of the Ordinance Registration of the establishments where bees are kept is carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the identification of hives with bee families by the owners and users of the bees. The registration of bees and the identification of beehives have the respective objectives of ensuring the health of bee families, limiting the spread of infectious bee diseases and successfully carrying out the state preventive programme and ensuring the quality and safety of bee families. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The control of the registration of apiaries as establishments shall be carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the checks shall be carried out on application for registration, received a complaint and planned on the basis of a risk assessment. I have something else to tell you, maybe in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! From the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, we did not hear what the ministry saw in terms of the service. Just because you find that there is no focus at the moment on this environmental service does not mean that the Ministry should not take any adequate measures on the payment of this service. At the moment, as of March 2019, the new National Program, which is in the Beekeeping sector, must be developed. I believe that the Bulgarian position on this environmental service should be extremely insistent on the new European Union's common agricultural policy. Bulgaria, as a responsible country in terms of bees and what we want to develop in the Beekeeping sector, should now insist on the European Union's service for pollination to be paid to beekeepers. I haven't heard an answer to my specific question, which is related to the large number of poisoned bees. The report you are pointing out and which is as of October 2018, I read it in your response in October to a parliamentary question, but there is probably some difference, because these 13,000 beekeepers who protested last week say otherwise, and the report by the Agrostatistika in March 2018 shows that the actually poisoned bees in Bulgaria are well over 22 thousand bee families. This year's bad climate and beekeepers say it also greatly contribute to reduced copper yields. I would like you to give a little more clarity in your answer about the control carried out by the Food Agency in relation to quality honey, in relation to the fact that Bulgarian honey is not mixed with other products, what control is being carried out? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My other question is about the lab that everyone's talking about. In some way, first of all, we need to criminalize the poisoning of bees, which is due to the unregulated pesticides that are being used.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u137	Let me finish. Last week, when the Deputy Minister spoke to the beekeepers, he said he had problems with these labs, he had problems with the legal base. So I would like to have all these questions answered in your duplicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u138	Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u139	I'm sorry I couldn't remember the 20 to 30 questions you asked. I didn't say there was no problem with beekeeping. Beekeeping is currently being assisted in various ways. Yes, the service is not assisted by pollination. That's a very delicate subject. It is also not supported anywhere in the European Union as such. There's something similar about the United States of America. Last year, we gave deminimies two and a half million, this year three and a half million, doing an analysis based on the yields that were made. Four and seven million is the beekeeper's program. You know that there are five directions, including for the diseases and immunoprophylactic program, which is free, including for every bee family that is paid to private practitioners. In terms of statistics, bee families who die each year for one reason or another are distorted because beekeepers themselves receive benefits, but sometimes do not declare them for a certain purpose. Why aren't the younger ones registered? I don't agree that it's a very heavy cost for this thing. [[Reply from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska.]] No. There are twenty leva for initial registration at the Food Agency and then twenty pennies per bee family. The registers in the municipalities work so that the mayors know where there are certain localized bees, including the register at the Food Agency. Don't make me tell you right now that the service is going to be a priority and it can be done. Currently, the Law treats beekeeping as producing specific products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MP Rumen Georgiev on Bulgaria's National Strategic Plan under the new Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, vision and readiness of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that such an important topic should be discussed within two to four minutes. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In November, on 22 and 23 November, we were in Croatia at the Interparliamentary Conference on the Role of Parliaments to shape the future of food and agriculture. I suppose this information that I'm about to bring out now, you, Mr. Minister, you know it well. It is expected that in July 2019 there will be a common framework for the new common agricultural policy. What will be the future of the new common agricultural policy depends on the Multiannual Financial Framework. Here it is clear that we must also respect global problems such as climate change and nature, Brexit, immigrants. These 12 million European farmers are very important for the feeding and development of the European Union. It is therefore important in the new common agricultural policy that what was put at this conference, especially by Phil Hogan, Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, is the simplification of the new common agricultural policy to be the heart of policy; the objectives that will be set for achieving, to be understandable and feasible, less bureaucracy, reduction of administrative burden, flexibility and efficiency. It was mentioned in person by Phil Hogan that the administrative burden in the new common agricultural policy will be reduced by 50% and by 200 regulations will be reduced to 40. Phil Hogan stressed that the image of the new common agricultural policy must be lifted and admitted that there is a distortion in the philosophy and objectives of the present. The most important thing is that the new common agricultural policy places the farmer at the heart of the new policy, the farmer himself, who directly deals with agriculture. Because until now, one of the mistakes was in the administration that they did not put the farmer in the center and things were distorted. In the new common agricultural policy nine objectives are set, through which nine results must be achieved, divided into three plus three plus three, are three economic results, three environmental and three social ones. Dear Minister, what is the vision and readiness of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the development of the National Strategic Plan of Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u142	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, the European Commission's legislative proposals for the future common agricultural policy, published on 1 June this year, provide for a whole new model of its implementation in the period 2021 - 2027. The three legislative proposals currently under way in the Council on Agriculture and Fisheries are: the regulation on the strategic plans of the common agricultural policy, the Regulation on the Single Common Organisation of the Markets and the Horizontal Regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy. In this regard, permanent working groups have been formed with the Council, where amendments to the draft regulations of the European Commission by representatives of the competent institutions of the Member States are regularly discussed. Bulgaria's position on the proposed regulations is defended within these working groups, where the country's main priorities for direct payments, sectoral interventions and rural development are maintained, approved by the Council of Ministers in the country's framework position. Member States are entrusted with a leading role in establishing a National Legal Framework for Support in the form of a strategic plan - this is the new element that you very rightly note. This will be the basis of the implementation of agricultural policy in each Member State. In this context, in the next programming period Bulgaria will have the opportunity to use the more effectively provided financial resource to stimulate the development of a more balanced and competitive agricultural sector and to improve living conditions in rural areas. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is responsible and with extreme attention to the process of developing the National Strategic Plan for Supporting the Common Agricultural Policy. Although there are still considerable ambiguities in the texts of the European Commission's legislative proposals, the Ministry has already started working on preparing one of the main elements, namely the SWOT analysis in question, which must analyse the entire agricultural sector, which will be an element in principle and hence bring out the priorities and objectives that will be an element of funding. The analysis will provide the current state of affairs of sectors and territories within the scope of the strategic plan. It will include information that will allow the country's specific needs to be drawn up in the medium term for each of the nine specific objectives set out in the Draft Strategy Plans Regulation. The lessons learned from previous experience in the implementation of policy instruments and mechanisms will also be taken into account. A preparatory work concerning the preparation of the analysis is currently being carried out, specifying what data will be needed and the sources for their provision, what will be the structure and scope of the document. The strategic plan will be consistent with the main policy objectives and will be drawn up in partnership with the competent public authorities, scientific institutes and the entire agricultural sector. In relation to the identified national needs in agriculture and rural areas for the next programming period based on SWOT analysis, another key element of the strategic plan, namely the intervention strategy, will be drawn up. It will prioritize the areas and mechanisms of impact, describe the interventions envisaged and set out the national target values of the indicators related to the achievement of the common and specific objectives of the common agricultural policy for the period 2021. After the completion of the work on the preparation of the analysis and the intervention strategy, the two documents will be presented again for public discussion. It's a very long subject. We are currently preparing the assignment, in the final stage is the SWOT analysis in question. This is the most important document on which the strategic plan will be based. We will try to do so with independent efforts of the scientific institutes and units of the Ministry, as well as with the capacity of the Ministry, with minimal over-alignment of external units. Not for anything else, but if I am an economist and I take out certain livestock sectors because they are ineffective, ineffective and would be very cost-effective, I can do one such analysis to shut down a part of the agricultural sector. Yes, the agricultural sector must have a balanced approach in both interventions and support. We are now finishing the SWOT analysis assignment and starting next year we are working on it. As soon as he's ready, we put him to public discussion. We hope there will be more clarity on the conclusion of the debate on regulations. It is optimistic and I am pleased that the regulations should be adopted within this European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to emphatically stress that at this conference, again, Phil Hogan said personally that what is new in the new common agricultural policy is precisely the adoption of national strategic plans that must be discussed in national parliaments. That's the new one that's being placed. Each country must therefore make the most of itself. I quote precisely what Phil Hogan said about the new common agricultural policy: The national strategic plan must review both the entire food chain in practice and the distribution plan. Last but not least, which is extremely important for the section, will not be approved any national strategic plan, I suppose and you know it, Mr. Minister, without a section for the renewal of the generation. It is an extremely important issue that has been raised at this conference, as it has been quoted as saying that only 1.5% are farmers up to 30 years in the European Union. This is an extremely important problem, Minister, and only three things I want to mention. For Bulgaria, it is extremely important for the concept of the role and place of the Bulgarian land to feed the Bulgarian population, to lay down as our goal. However, this was achieved before 1989 and Bulgaria was 100% fed and satisfied, plus exports. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I have one minute. Secondly, is the reformation of agricultural policy from conventional, from monocultural to so-called high value added production. It is extremely important to establish a state programme for the reconstruction and development of villages and small settlements in Bulgaria under the second pillar for the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u147	Thank you. I would like to express full agreement with what Mr. Georgiev said. The role of national parliaments is undeniable, of course, and the role of the Agricultural Commission in the discussion, in the analysis, as a basis for the strategic plan, not only will it not be underestimated, but must be the lead. Many other things that you do not mention and are very important not only for the renewal of generations, but also for digitalization, and other things, must necessarily find a place in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Environment and Waters Mr. Neno Dimov, from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov on the strategy of the Ministry of Environment and Water for overcoming the high levels of particulate pollution in the city of Plovdiv, and the consequences of this. You have the floor, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Bulgaria is at the forefront of the ranking for the most contaminated countries of the Member States according to the European Environment Agency in terms of fine particulate matter, followed by Poland and Slovakia. The reasons for this are domestic, transport and industrial activities, both contaminated and poorly maintained road surfaces. Additional contributions to particulate air pollution have adverse climatic conditions in the country, such as low wind speed and prolonged droughts. The most polluted cities in Bulgaria in terms of the number of excesses based on the midnight norm of fine dust 10 are: Pernik, Dimitrovgrad, Vidin and Plovdiv. Of particular importance is the city of Plovdiv because there live over 500 thousand people constantly and the percentage of the population exposed to abnormal levels of fine particulate matter is significantly above the average for Europe. Air pollution is a critical risk factor, causing about a quarter of the deaths in the elderly In this regard, my question to you is: what is the strategy of the Ministry of Environment and Water in terms of overcoming the high levels of particulate pollution and the consequences of this in relation to the territory of Plovdiv?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u150	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yordanov! Overnormal particulate pollution is the most serious problem in terms of air quality in the municipality of Plovdiv, as well as a major problem at national level. The main role in achieving the required quality of the air is assigned to the municipal authorities in accordance with the requirements of the legislation. Mayors of over-pollution municipalities are obliged to develop and implement programmes to improve air quality to reach established standards in their territory. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall take measures at national level with regard to the two sectors with the greatest contribution to air pollution The measures aim to assist the municipal authorities in particular those of the municipality of Plovdiv in fulfilling their obligations to achieve the required quality of the air. In fact, the National Assembly has already adopted a first vote in plenary and a second vote in the Committee on the Environment The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. There we aim to limit the use of low-quality coal and briquettes for domestic heating and give legal basis for the development of a regulation on wood requirements used for domestic heating. World Bank experts have developed a Project and a National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality for 2018 - 2024. The program is in coordination with the relevant departments and countries, and after this process is completed, it will be presented for a vote in the Council of Ministers. In 2020, the requirements of Regulation 2015/1185 for household solid fuel heating appliances are to be introduced in order to support the process of replacing those appliances with those with lower emissions of harmful substances. The competent authorities shall take measures to improve the quality and effectiveness of periodic technical annual reviews. We have introduced additional restrictions on the purchase of catalysts from motor vehicles at waste acceptance points by applying strict controls and sanctions. Parliament voted on amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which aim to stimulate the use of cars leading to lower levels of pollution. Within the framework of the development procedure, an update of municipal air quality programmes under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" 11 grant contracts worth 1.5 million are implemented. lv. Plovdiv Municipality is one of the beneficiaries and updated its municipal programme with funds under this procedure. A resource of 111 million is provided for under Operational Programme lv. for municipalities with impaired air quality to finance investment measures aimed at reducing emissions from the main source of pollution definitions The procedure for direct granting of financial assistance to beneficiaries was announced on 5 December this year. Plovdiv Municipality is eligible beneficiary and we are expected to receive a proposal of up to 14 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u153	Undoubtedly, the subject that we are discussing with you is important, but I am impressed that the measures are somehow chaotic without being part of a complex plan. As you want there to be a standard for wood used for heating, to have a standard that concerns municipalities, where there is a certain degree of abnormal dirt with fine particulate matter. Especially for the municipality of Plovdiv, you should pay attention to why ecological public transport is not used. This is one of the few municipalities where we do not have an electric transport or another transport that causes particulate pollution, and from here to go down, so that we stimulate people who are currently heating themselves to solid fuels - coal and wood - to prefer more ecological, electric heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u154	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Duplica, Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u155	Dear Mr. Yordanov, there is no way I can tell the Mayor of Plovdiv and the municipal councillors. I am sure that you have your representatives on the Municipal Council and you can raise the issue of mode of transport. I just want to give you some statistics, which shows how the situation in Plovdiv is developing specifically for the last five years.... from 2013 to 2017, and for 2018 we do not have any final data. In stations that measure, the excess in one is almost twice " 173 mid-day excesses for 2013 and become 85 in 2017. Twice. Keep in mind that the movements are not known when they are happening, but they are slowing down and falling down every year, and as far as the other station is concerned, the number of 107 is 71. Yeah, one was moved because every city breathes, develops and needs to have it, and the other one hasn't moved, and it actually falls by the same percentage. I don't think the move affected the one who stayed in the same place. Obviously, measures are being taken. But they're still tall for both of them and they're above who they should be. I agree with you that the measures must continue and that is why we have commissioned the World Bank experts to make a comprehensive national coordination programme, which, in your opinion, is still missing. Perhaps it is normal and you have not had the opportunity to get acquainted during the public discussion and these 30 days of access, but there are systematized all the measures that need to be adopted, including the financial resources that are needed for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-14.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 on 19 December 2018. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
