ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLEANNESS OF ATMOSFER AIR. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, a procedure for admission for Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. In relation to this by virtue of art. 52, para. 3 of our regulations to do a name check on those present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Please give me the lists! This time, front and back. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here One hundred twenty-seven so far. More written Vejdi Rashidov and Valentin Kasabov. We have a quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] Plamen Tachev, Milen Mihov, Petar Kanev are here. That's enough, guys! We are going to vote on the procedure Mrs. Vasileva requested. They voted 161 MPs: 156, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the reports. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrova, to present the Report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u4	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. At a meeting held on 8 November 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Neno Dimov Minister, and Ivan Angelov Director of the Department of Air Cleanliness and Prevention of Pollution and Prevention; the State Agency of Metrological and Technical Supervision: Ilsa Chinkova Director of the Directorate of Finance-Administrative Agency, Petya Marinova Head of the Department of Legal Activities and Public Procurement and Nadezhda Kainakchieva. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Neno Dimov. He informed that Bulgaria had received a notification letter from the European Commission urging it to fully comply with the judgment of the EU Court of Justice of April 2017, which found a breach of the Air Quality Directive and non-compliance with the marginal concentration of particulate matter. The minister stressed that political consensus is needed in taking measures to improve the quality of life of people. The main changes to the Bill are related to offering opportunities to improve the quality of the air. Standards are introduced for sulphur, ash and moisture content in solid fuels for domestic heating, which is the main source of particulate pollution in the settlements. The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision will carry out fuel control, with the assistance of Operational Programme "Environment" a specialized laboratory will be equipped. A sanction is envisaged to confiscate low-quality fuels for the benefit of the State. Another part of the Draft Law relates to the responsibilities of local authorities, which do not significantly recognise the clean air as a major problem. They are responsible for preparing programmes to improve air quality, which must give concrete results. A sanction is introduced for mayors who do not achieve an improvement in air quality, which will be assessed on the basis of the previous three years. Minister Dimov noted that the established norms cannot be achieved immediately, according to the World Bank the medium time horizon is 2024. Ms. Desislava Stojkova from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expressed support for the introduction of standards on the quality of fuels for domestic heating and objected to the planned responsibilities of the mayors in terms of air quality. It noted that there is pollution from transport, industrial sources, transportation from other territories, the influence of weather conditions and control functions are distributed among various state authorities, and responsibility is assigned only to the mayors. He proposed to start by implementing the Law and the prescribed regulations and then move on to sanctions for mayors. People's representative Hristo Grudev asked a question: what will happen to coal deposits in the country that do not meet the requirements? People's representative Manol Genov expressed his opinion that he supported the arguments of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and gave examples of the meteorological influences in settlements located in valleys. He raised a question about the responsibility of the mayors in such cases, as well as about the resources of the Operational Programme "Environment" which is aimed only at certain municipalities. Notes that in this form it will not support the Bill as it is necessary to refine texts. People's representative Rumen Georgiev noted that he did not see opportunities for financial management of the problem through the budget of municipalities. People's representative Atanas Kostadinov said that measures are needed to prevent pollution and measures to implement the programmes, announcing that at this stage he will refrain from supporting the bill. He suggested that it is appropriate to manage the environmental components by national authorities. Minister Dimov answered the questions asked. The chairman of the committee Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva expressed strong support for the draft on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB and appealed to the other groups to support it, as these are important steps for the health and life of the people. She also pointed out that the objectives are clear: more decisive measures to deal with excess air quality standards; setting standards and setting a control body for compliance; developing regulations; and building a control system. Ms. Vasileva stressed that it could be worked in the direction of precision of texts, with a clear distinction between the responsibilities of the competent authorities, given the mechanism. If there are proposals between the first and second votes, they will be discussed in a short time so that the Bill can get to the second vote more quickly in the House. She reminded that the European Commission has given Bulgaria 2 months to respond to comments on actions to improve the quality of the air. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 13 votes in favour and 7 votes abstentions supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: it proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Air Cleanliness, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Mr. Kanev will present the Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. At its regular meeting on 14 November 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov. The bill presented by Minister Neno Dimov aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation part of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 to reduce the national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC and to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-488/15. With it Bulgaria is condemned for non-compliance with the standards for particulate matter in the atmospheric air in the country, and domestic heating with solid fuels is defined as the main reason for this. It is envisaged that the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Economy and the Chairman of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, will adopt a regulation setting out the requirements for the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating, as well as the conditions, procedures and methods for controlling the quality of solid fuels. A body shall be designated to carry out the control functions for the implementation of these requirements...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is also a banning regime, including withdrawal for the benefit of the State of solid fuels, which is the subject of the infringement. The plantation regime is expanded to the mayors implementing programs under art. 27 of the Law, for improving the quality of ambient air, in cases of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or failure to meet objective criteria for reducing pollution levels. In the case of infringements of the legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases and substances that deplete the ozone layer shall be completed. An information system for the collection of information on fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be established. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill shall amend the Law on Technical Requirements for Products in order to correct a technical error leading to a contradiction between the provisions of art. 54, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 58, para. 1. The expected results of the adoption of the Bill are reducing the emissions of fine particulate matter and sulphur dioxide through the use of higher-quality solid fuels for domestic heating, improving the quality of the air and protecting the health of the population from the harmful effects of excess air pollution. In their written opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, they strongly object to the transfer of responsibility to the mayors of municipalities for ensuring the clean air in the territory of the municipality concerned, provided that other competent authorities permit and determine the conditions for the operation of sources of pollution. The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision considers that it is necessary in the Law to provide for the possibility for the Chair of the Agency to exercise full control over the prohibitions and restrictions provided for in the Law, including by ensuring the necessary funding and administrative capacity. During the discussion the national representative from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce (BSP) and Dragomir Stoynev asked a question about the criteria for evaluation under the procedure. In response, Minister Dimov pointed out that comments and recommendations of the European Commission services were taken into account for their determination, the main criterion being the level of particulate pollution. Deputy Minister Borisov pointed out that the Ministry of Economy supports the philosophy of the Draft and the texts on which they have notes from the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision could be refined between the two votes of the Draft. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for the draft, 1 vote against the draft, 7 votes abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly that the bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The report by the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Government will be presented by Mr. Sirakov. Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. At a regular meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Waters; Mr. Ivan Angelov, Director of the Department of Environment and Water Protection in the Ministry of Environment and Water; Mrs. Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and experts from the Association. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Minister Neno Dimov. He drew attention to the main directions in the amendments proposed by the Bill. One of the changes relates to the transposition of some of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC (Directive (EU) 2016/2284). It is envisaged that the main part of the requirements of the directive will be transposed by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. The bill provides grounds for establishing a network for monitoring the negative impact of air pollution on the available types of ecosystems in the country. The bill sets out grounds for introducing requirements for the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating by the population, including the designation of a body for carrying out control functions for the application of those requirements, and the definition of a banning regime, including withdrawal for the benefit of the State of solid fuels, which is the subject of the infringement. Domestic solid fuel heating has been identified as the main cause of excess air pollution with fine particulate matter. The limitation of the sulphur and ash content in coal and briquettes is one of the measures that can be taken at national level to assist municipalities in their efforts to achieve weather quality standards. The specific requirements for the quality of solid fuels will be detailed in the Regulation on the quality of solid fuels, which is intended to be adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill provide reason for the development in a regulation of the requirements for wood offered to the population for domestic heating. The bill provides for an extension of the plantation regime to mayors implementing programmes to improve air quality in cases of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or objective criteria for reducing pollution levels. Currently, the measures planned and implemented by local authorities are not effective enough to deal with over-conflict air. In this context, it is necessary to introduce objective criteria for assessing progress towards achieving the objectives of the programmes for improving air quality and the corresponding sanctioning for their non-compliance. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Bill in its part for introducing requirements for the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating of the population, offering concrete proposals for additions to this part of the Bill. The association is strongly opposed to the introduction of norms determining the mayors of municipalities responsible for ensuring air cleanliness in the territory of the municipality and their sanctioning in the event of failure to comply with this obligation. In a detailed and reasoned opinion, the association justifies the insolvency and non-applicability of such proposals. During the discussion the MPs supported the proposed changes in principle. On the part of individual MPs, agreement was expressed with the position of the municipalities and the need to reconsider the contested provisions between the two votes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 11 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Who will present the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds? You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u10	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. At its regular meeting on 14 November 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Act on Air Cleanliness, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. The draft was presented by Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Yumit Husseinova and Mrs. Galya Yordanova, chief experts at the Department of Air Protection and pollution prevention in the Ministry of Environment and Water. The bill provides to transpose part of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC (Directive (EU) 2016/2284). The main part of the requirements of the directive is expected to be transposed by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, for which this draft law gives reason. The bill also provides grounds for establishing a network for monitoring the negative impact of air pollution on the available types of ecosystems in the country. The main objective of the amendments to the Law is to create a basis for achieving national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants, as well as for achieving air quality standards according to established standards. The operational objectives to be achieved by the Bill include the transposition of some of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2284 by establishing the basis for the adoption of a Council of Ministers regulation, as well as the introduction of fines and penalties for failure to comply with the requirements of the Directive. The establishment of an information system for collecting information on fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions as required by art. 20 of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases; supplementing the plantation regime with a sanction for non-compliance with legislation requirements with respect to substances that deplete the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases for which it is not provided; updating and clarifying obsolete or non-working provisions. The bill establishes a legal basis for introducing requirements for the quality of solid fuels for coal and briquettes used for domestic heating of the population, including the designation of a body to carry out control functions for the application of these requirements and the definition of a banning regime in breach of quality requirements. The control functions are intended to be assigned to officials authorised by the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. The specific requirements for the quality of solid fuels should be described in detail in the Regulation on the quality of solid fuels, which is expected to be adopted by the Decree of the Council of Ministers. The regulation will introduce standards for the sulphur and ash content in coal and briquettes, packaging and labelling requirements, as well as the conditions, procedure and method of control of the quality of solid fuels. The bill also provides for the establishment of a legal basis for the development and adoption of a National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme. The development of such a programme aims at supporting municipalities in solving the problems of air quality, which they are unable to deal with on their own. The programme is currently being developed on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, ratified by a law of the National Assembly. The Sanction regime shall also be extended to the mayors implementing programs under art. 27 of the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act to improve air quality, in cases of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or objective criteria for reducing pollution levels. The importers point out that the measures planned and implemented by the local authorities at present cannot be considered effective enough to deal with over-pollution of the atmospheric air. According to importers, one of the reasons for this is the mayors' insufficient commitment to this problem. The current banning regime is not sufficient from the point of view of the active work of the mayors and municipal authorities for the implementation of the programmes for improving the quality of the air and for achieving the objectives set in them, which is imperative, given the nature of the problem, as well as the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-488/15, which found that Bulgaria was convicted of non-compliance with the standards for particulate matter. In this context, it is necessary to introduce objective criteria for assessing progress towards achieving the objectives of the air quality programmes and the corresponding sanctioning of their non-compliance. Last but not least, it should be noted that the period for transposition of Directive (EU) 2016/2284 was 1 July 2018. In the subsequent discussion, Mr Christian Vigenin, Chairman of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, asked the Minister whether a transitional period was foreseen before the sanctions provided for the municipalities were introduced. Minister Dimov explained that this problem has been known for more than a year and there should be no surprise to the municipalities about the measures provided for in the bill. He added that a sanction will be imposed once a year and only affects the failure to adopt measures of an organisational nature. Ms. Ivelina Vasileva, Vice-President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, expressed her support for the Bill, but stressed that there is a need for some precision between first and second readings. Mr. Dimov agreed with the comments made and expressed his willingness to review some of the texts and improve between the two votes. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 2 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes for the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Honourable Members, I open the discussion, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The discussion of air cleanness for some of you must be a professional issue, for others we will surely hear about it in a moment is political, for me it is a personal matter. I declare my personal interest in discussing the quality of the atmospheric air because I am a citizen and a Member of the National Assembly from a region which is historically subject to problems in this direction, namely Ruse. Perhaps I will surprise you today by saying that, seeing me here, you will not hear another legal analysis of texts or their interpretation in the Bill. There were times when there was no Internet, no social networks, the kids in Ruse wore masks, going to school in the morning because the air was dirty. No one could blame us then for wearing them to get our picture taken and uploaded. I wore a mask like that, not once or twice. I remember that mask. Thirty years later, the children of Ruse are wearing masks again. And if, in 30 years later, the children of a society have the same problems, I myself ask myself: what have we achieved at all, and for what vanity have all the other great achievements been? The kids are wearing masks again. Of course, I read the Bill carefully, I read the opinions, but my reading is different, as I told you, to a man whose family, the society in which I live in Ruse, is directly threatened, directly damaged every single day by the dirty air. My reading is conditional on several topical questions to Mr. Minister of the Environment, from meetings with many experts and from a conversation with many, many citizens. Reading the Bill, the cruel thing is that in the reasons the importers do not argue that they are importing it because the Bulgarians are breathing dirty air or that they are getting sick and suffering, but because there is a judgment against Bulgaria because there is a directive, regulations and in relation to them, of course, we are starting to legislate. The bad news is that reading the text carefully made it clear to me that with these measures the air will by no means become cleaner. The bill claims to regulate the requirements for the quality of solid fuels, but it does not at all. For importers, solid fuels are coal and briquettes, and any normal citizen who heats up knows that in addition to them, solid fuels are firewood, pellets, domestic industrial waste, biomass. And so, from the beginning, importers were pointing at a small fraction of solid fuels. According to experts, only 25 percent of solid fuel heating families use coal or briquettes and 75 percent use biomass, mainly wood. You should all know that the low quality of wood, i.e. their high humidity, gives rise to one of the most serious air pollution. Not a word in the Bill on this matter. Not a word! And people use cheap fuels, cheap coal, wood, furniture waste, I have a signal like this, and I have a signal that's been sent out in Ruse, tires and other junk not for any other reason, because it's their hobby, but because they're poor. That's why they use crap like that in their stoves. The stoves in which they burn their solid fuels will continue to be the same after this bill, the meatballs and feather stoves. In my opinion, we need a state policy for the implementation of boilers, fireplaces, stoves with a much higher efficiency, and not only demand labelling and packaging of coal and briquettes. Not a word on this issue in the Bill. Not a word in the Bill on the connection of boilers, fireplaces, stoves and their technical status and characteristics to emissions. In my opinion, a bold attempt must be made by the state to help people pass on to more sophisticated combustion appliances, but this is not being commented at all and is not being done. And once again in this bill, since it is difficult for the state to carry out something, in this particular case to make the air cleaner, its territorial authorities cannot cope because it is difficult or something pungent, the state is now trying to transfer it to whom the mayors of municipalities. The bill provides for new responsibilities of municipal administrations and higher fines for mayors of municipalities. I've been a city councilman for five years at a big city council. It's an absolute nonsense. The mayors do not have the necessary qualifications or the necessary equipment or the necessary staff in the municipalities to deal with this issue. They have nothing to do with transport, industrial enterprises, domestic heating. For me this is a completely wrong philosophy, which everyone can understand.. just the air does not stand in the same place and there is no way that a mayor can be perfect, clean it and keep the air in his municipality, he moves and the dirt comes from the other municipalities, comes from other countries. Therefore, in my opinion, spraying the functions of a specialized administration of all municipalities is simply a mistake, which is what is proposed. In Bulgaria there is a large pollution with fine particulate matter, in some regions even overpollution and there are problems caused by this And as a response to what we see? A bill that, first of all, is quite late, and, second of all, is abstract. We will once again clean the air with legal standards. It is necessary for me that the MOEW administration, especially regional inspections, be equipped in a way that allows them to work with motivated people, with appliances everywhere and with legal powers, be bold in implementing the law that exists at present. Transferring all responsibility from the specialized administration of the mayors to me is an empty transfusion. From an empty body that has powers and does not work, in an empty body that has no power to control, as I said, neither domestic heating nor transport nor industry. How they're gonna control the mayors carrying pollutants, it's not clear. They have no special technique in the municipalities. It's a false philosophy to me. Of course, by transferring responsibility to the mayors, you can check somewhere in the reports to Europe that something has been taken in connection with the decision of the European Union against Bulgaria, but there will be no result for cleaner air because the mayors will be responsible for a process they do not control. Not a word in the Bill on how emissions from local heating installations will be controlled. What happens in every family's home? In the villages the chimneys are already smoking, you'll see them on your way home. What do citizens burn? What kind of appliances are they burning in? What kind of stoves? We need to standardize the appliances, we need to help citizens to use more advanced boilers in their home. Not a word about it either. Not a word in the Bill of Promotion to change people's habits, to get acquainted, to justify the danger of what you burn in your stoves. Not a word! As far as industrial enterprises are concerned, and with this I will complete the contaminants that become synonymous with torturers for citizens in certain municipalities, it is undoubtedly a fact. You know that in each of your areas they remain outside the regulation of the Law and I cannot remain satisfied when, speaking to workers from these enterprises, their skin smells of chemicals. I don't know how the appliances can't feel, maybe because the dirt is a catch. I have no idea. Whole cities are gassing, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, and people are already impatient. Therefore, telling you how the law deals with things that will not solve the problem at all, but who pretends to solve them, there is no way to support it. I invite the special administration to do its job in terms of air cleanliness. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Vassileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u14	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I find something symbolic in the fact that today is the day of the Clean Air Day, as the initiative of Sofia Municipality has been announced, we are looking at the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Air Cleanliness. A law that is long-awaited and is the result of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group composed of experts, which really thoroughly explores the possibilities for introducing solid fuel standards for domestic heating; it is the result of the efforts of many institutions; it is also the result of the collaboration with the World Bank for the development of a National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality. The bill is a very important one for the health of all people, because no matter where they are, they have the right to breathe fresh air. There's no limit to air. We can choose what food to eat, what water to drink, but we cannot choose what air to breathe. It is important because it transposes provisions of European legislation and, respectively, comments on our country's criminal procedure. I would say that the Bill has one key feature because it expresses a determination..................... to implement real and effective measures to address the problem of air pollution......................................................................... What the Bill contains concerns not only some of the measures that need to be taken but are extremely important and I hope that they will result soon. The bill has three main objectives. Perhaps the most important of them is the introduction of requirements for the qualities of solid fuels "coal" and briquettes used for domestic heating of people. The limitation of the sulphur and ash content in coal and briquettes is a national measure that can significantly assist municipalities in implementing municipal programs to improve the quality of the air. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft also contain texts that warrant the development of a regulation that regulates the requirements for wood used for heating.. counterpoint of what was said a short time ago by the previous one. The second major objective is the regulation and extension of the powers of the environmental authorities, as well as the strengthening of the plantation regime with the implementation of activities related to improving the ambient air. In cases of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or objective criteria for reducing pollution levels, a stronger spectrum regime is proposed. The third objective is to transpose the requirements of Directive 2284 of December 2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Dear colleagues, the risks to people's health as a result of contaminated air are a fact and we cannot ignore them. Many worrying data have been released in this direction in recent months by authoritative European and international institutions. Although the data show that there is a positive trend, Bulgaria continues to have a problem with the quality of the air. This clearly shows that we need to work to protect Bulgarian citizens from the influence of the dirty air on their health and undoubtedly the legislative measures are part of the actions we need to take. I deeply believe that solving the problem that affects all people cannot have political colors. We, from GERB, strongly support the Bill and hope that colleagues from the other parliamentary groups will do so. The legislative process allows us, within two months, to reflect the comments on the transposition of the Directive and to introduce more decisive and strict measures to assist the process. We have been working for years to achieve results in this area. Yeah, those are long-term measures. The World Bank's expertise has been set up, as I mentioned, a number of investments have been made in improving the urban environment, green systems in cities, the introduction of integrated urban transport measures. Today we are looking at a bill that does not only contain the requirement for programs and documents on paper. Today we are looking at a bill that gives solutions for effective results. I hope that the debates will be constructive and aimed rather at clarifying and supplementing the texts where necessary, so that we can prepare a legislative act that will result more quickly in the desired outcome. I hope that in the phase between first and second readings, if there are proposals, they will be discussed in constructive order. It is our view that it is necessary to work towards clarifying the texts relating to the competences and responsibilities of the local authorities, which are undoubtedly an environmental authority, but it is necessary to further clarify their responsibilities and, in this sense, to refine the sanctions that are applicable to them. Let me also remind you of the threat hanging over our country in connection with the criminal procedure for violating the quality of the air and the possible impact through financial sanctions that our country can bear. On 8 November Bulgaria received an official notification letter from the European Commission, which takes into account the progress of our country, but also the need to take more urgent and decisive measures concerning domestic heating to address the problems related to coordination between institutions, including strengthening the activity of local authorities. Without all these actions, we will not achieve the desired successes. And once again, I would like to call on all colleagues to work together for a good legislation, for achieving the common objective of clean air in Bulgaria, for bringing together the efforts of all institutions and for the support of all measures and actions contained in the bill, which will ensure the implementation of the complex programme, which has been developed by the government. Thank you for your attention and I hope everyone will support me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. The next statement is Professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The idea of the Bill is really positive and we share the considerations that were presented here earlier in the presentation of the reports of the relevant committees and the statement of Mrs. Vasileva. We would also like to make the necessary progress, first, for the sake of all our fellow citizens, and for us to have the fresh air that we all breathe. I don't think I realize that as a doctor. Naturally, it is important for us to overcome the penal procedure that has been launched by our partners from Brussels. At the same time, we have to point out that in the Bill, which is generally positive, there are also some gaps in the texts that cause confusion and a priori I cannot do without mentioning them. Firstly, I will start with the relevant notes on the texts that we would like to discuss at first reading, and then I hope that all of us together, and especially the teams of the Ministry and the competent entities that need to be delivered naturally, and we, as MPs, will give our proposals. It should be borne in mind that according to the new definition of c. 43 of the Additional Provisions: The solid fuels used for domestic heating are coal and coal briquettes intended for combustion in combustion plants with a heat output of less than or equal to 0,5 MW. As is apparent, wood and wood briquettes, pellets and biomass briquettes used for domestic heating do not fall within the scope of the concept of solid fuels, as amended by the Law. I'd say that's really unacceptable! The fact that the wood remains outside the scope of the Law, and it is not good for the household needs to transfer the requirements to them and to be determined only by a regulation. It would be good to be included and corporation in the very body of the Law amending and supplementing the Law, which we are currently considering. In addition, a very good thorough analysis must be done. As stated, it is true that burning wood is one of the components that pollute the clean air. In my opinion, however, it is right and correct to do a very good study in the villages in our country, especially in the Rhodopes: does this lead to serious pollution of the clean air? We should have control tests based on which to rule. Another is the profile of pollution in large cities. The investigations should also be continued there, although there are reports and as Mrs. Vasileva pointed out, I should not repeat myself and studies. The sources of pollution are clear both in large cities and in villages, so on the subject of firewood we must be as cautious as possible from the point of view of the social vector. Can you imagine saying in our villages firewood to be limited or to say that they will have much higher standards? Where is this standard of residents in the villages so as to afford new combustion, modern, modern installations to pass into pellets? It would be insufferable from a financial point of view for them. And last but not least, the traditions! Another point is that there must be a specification of the parameters between the two ministries.... the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, so that quality solid fuels are fed to the population... I refer to firewood, which are minimally, almost no risk to the cleanness of the air. I believe that this is absolutely achievable, given that we have wonderful resources in this regard of our country. The next pass in the Bill. There are no texts to be applied to punish persons who deliberately and purposely use solid fuels for domestic heating that do not meet the requirements. I'm referring to the lack of texts, for example, about burning tires, old clothes, shoes. All solid fuels that we know how they pollute, especially tyres. Here in Sofia, in separate neighborhoods we face these problems. I believe that this problem must be overcome! It is highly controversial that the mayors of municipalities should be responsible almost entirely for the cleanness of the atmospheric air. Air purity within the municipality is a complex problem. The transfer of full responsibility to the mayors of municipalities is unacceptable. Mayors do not control the quality of solid fuels for domestic heating or liquid fuels used for transport and domestic heating. Mayors shall not permit or control industrial production on the territory of the municipality concerned, nor shall they determine the limits of pollutants imitated as a result of that production. Mayors do not make first registration of vehicles and do not have the power to stop vehicles that do not meet the relevant standards. Mayors cannot influence atmospheric processes, cannot limit pollution that comes from other municipalities, or is of cross-border origin. The mayor cannot tell citizens what heating appliances and what fuel to use.. as I have just pointed out, in terms of subjectivity, for example, when using tires and so on. There's no way the mayors can be responsible for all this! We believe that the provisions concerning the responsibilities of the mayors of municipalities should be seriously considered and corrected, as their responsibility should remain to do only what they have legal powers to do. Another controversial point is the introduction of a sanction for the mayor of the municipality for the assessment of the previous calendar year, based on the average of registration and the number of excesses of the standards for harmful substances, on average annual levels of pollutants for the last three calendar years, given that the mayor is in a mandate position. For example, the mayor took office 2015, for the previous two years he was another mayor, meaning the current mayor will be responsible for the actions and omissions of the previous mayor. It is also necessary to refine the texts here. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another trend. Mr. Minister, it is correct to say that this trend has started since 2010, namely the transfer of responsibilities and competences to regional structures and to the Executive Environment Agency, where many of the competences and responsibilities that should normally be attributed to the respective minister, whoever he is, have been transferred. In this way conditions and prerequisites are created, first, I will directly say about corruption practices. In addition, the level of competence of responsibility is one thing to meet the respective minister, it is another to meet the regional directors who are appointed. The minister is an electoral position, he needs to form policies, he needs to implement policies and control policy implementation. In this regard, I hope that this trend... By the way, this is not only true for the Ministry of Environment and Water. As is the case, with this bill, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision re-initiates the responsibilities and competences of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. What didn't we tell her?! I'm seriously worried. We really need to make a very thorough review of what is the administrative capacity and what can this agency implement? Is an additional human resource available? All these policies and responsibilities, which are attached to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, have been last introduced to it by the dams, since none of the ministries has assumed this responsibility, we now place yet another responsibility for one-what you are. This is running away from responsibility! Rather, I am optimistic that between first and second readings we will have enough time for all of this to be examined, examined very thoroughly so as to improve philosophy, the concept, to achieve the goals we would like to have. It is hardly necessary to say that all of us would like to have a clean air that we breathe, especially in view of the life and health of all of us, the citizens of Bulgaria, and the people who visit our country in cities and everywhere. I express my willingness and the name of our parliamentary group based on the experience we have and have, to improve the tests and overcome these misunderstandings, I would say. With regard to the acquisition of responsibilities, I can be much more specific, but I refrain here today from pointing out everything, starting with EIA, compatibility assessment, complex permits, absolutely everything scattered about water management, water management and mineral water management. We can see the results and efficiency. With regard to the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law, I hope that we will ensure that it obtains the type and content with which to achieve the objectives, to overcome the criminal procedure as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u17	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Dear colleagues, on the balcony of the plenary hall is our world wrestling champion Taibee Yussain and her coach. Please say hello! [[Applause.]] We continue with speeches. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Listening to the speakers, Bulgaria has a problem with the purity of the air is a fact! The fact is that every winter solid particles that are in the air make breathing difficult for both us and our children. I personally come from an area, I'm chosen from an area that leads the air pollution ranking. I'm talking about Shumen. Every winter, after they light the stoves, it gets really bad. Today is the vote on this law, and I find a slight symbolism. On the eve of tomorrow's grand protest, we are on our way here in this hall, the government to strengthen Bulgarian citizens with what is being accepted. I have come to know the Bill in detail when it was examined in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and I find that year, year and thing this bill has aged, no one has dealt with it. Today, on the eve of the protest, at the beginning of the heating season, we are on our way here to raise dramatically the prices of solid fuels that Bulgarian citizens use to heat up. This was also implied in the statement of the previous speakers. However, you do not realize what will result from the adoption of this law, and at the beginning of the heating season?! It will cause market deficits, it will cause a sharp increase in prices and wood and coal, it will cause scandals, it will cause tension! I personally advise you not to vote on this bill today, to bring it back and to work because we do not see in it any order of how these Bulgarian citizens will be compensated, who will be directly affected by increasing the prices of solid fuels, which is absolutely beyond any doubt. The introduction of regulation, the introduction of product fee requirements for packages, all sorts of things for a register of traders, for fuel quality and so on, will further aggravate the pocket of the already used Bulgarian citizen, who is wondering where to save two levs! So did we raise taxes on him, so we're not gonna increase his civil service, so what else are we gonna do, and get to the wood now?! What will these Bulgarian citizens do this winter, fellow Members? You know that the whole system is already corrupted from top to bottom in the solid fuel trade from wood mining in the forest to getting to the last, to the final client, everything is covered in corruption! Now we are creating another system that will further break down the wood trade. [[Noise and lines.]] In what way in this bill do you compensate these people? Does the state give them money to build gas installations, build their boilers at home for free, replace them with more environmentally friendly fuel? I don't see those lyrics! We've been late for a year and more with the adoption of this bill. What is needed, what does it require at this very difficult time that we today look at this bill? I think Mr. Dimov will understand. Really stop this thing, wait until after the heating season, there's plenty of time for three months not enough to load things up. Get inside texts to lighten these people so they can prepare for the next heating season, so they can take on this extra cost! We see sanctions here, we see regulations, he writes about people who don't follow orders under art. 9g... is it not clear to us who these persons are? Are these solid fuel consumers? What's gonna happen? The mayors will go from house to house burning wood to fine him from 1000 to 20,000 leva. Oh, yeah? Is that what we expect? We do not know what the draft regulation is. And it's not clear! And it has to be more specific! Our call here today, from the Left, is for this bill to stop in the Chamber to date! He's gone! I'm telling you, people are gonna find out what's going on and tomorrow you're gonna pick the bitter fruit of this thing! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mr. Ivanov, my reply to you is in connection with the support of some of what you said, but here the Minister will probably join you after your speech. Did you know that a whole year has been launched in my constituency in Smolyan, and these people have been enrolled who will enter a program to receive a stove or facility to be with fuels to relieve and become the clean air more acceptable? All of this stood on the site, mobilized a lot of civil resources and suddenly said that this thing would happen next year as far as I know about 240 million there are for such programs in the Ministry itself. But here is the question: do people position themselves? Is this programme expected to create economic levers and position political lobbies to make the chips and create the organization and before the elections all this to be enjoyed? I have the same concern for you because, Mr. Minister, the program, if it was going at a pace and if for the program this winter had already been distributed the stoves in Smolyan, there is a way in the area to buy chips and to ease the conditions, to start the first steps with several municipalities, I do not understand why they stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Second line, Mr. Sabanov. The third line is Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, for your information, first of all, the wood auctions in Gorski have passed a long time ago. So the price of wood cannot jump dramatically in mid-winter, because in mid-winter no one will get wood. Regarding the other part of the coal heating, they are also ordered. There is no way from this tribune to strain and say: here is another factor that will increase the costs of Bulgarian citizens this winter and thus almost pour oil into the fires of protests. I don't think it's useful for you or anyone, because it's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u23	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have seen in your speech an attempt at gross manipulation and I do not agree with what you have said. I think it is necessary to get a closer look at the proposed texts, where it has clearly been demonstrated that the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry must develop a regulation. When developed, it will be subject to both public discussions and public awareness. In this sense, there is no way for the upcoming heating season to be influenced by the texts. But what you're concerned about is re-employing people's fears, which not only is not what you're concerned about, it's harmful to our society. You probably know that in the current 2019 budget, which will be reviewed and, I hope, supported by you, 40 million. lv. more are set aside to help the energy-vulnerable people. And not just for the next, but for the next two years, there are 40 million more funds. So don't try to play with people's fears! What we need to do together is to look for solutions to ensure a better quality of life for people, to provide health for our children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll start backwards. Mrs. Vasileva, I'm not playing with people's fears, I'm just warning you what the effect of adopting such legislation will be. You know that a large proportion of solid fuel traders are largely speculating on the market. Spending such texts, creating conditions for regulation and crushing, and requiring the registration of any one, will guaranteedly limit citizens' access to the market for such fuels. Whoever doesn't know this market, who doesn't buy wood, doesn't know it. I guess you're either on electricity or gas and you've never bought wood, but my relatives are buying wood and coal and I know what it's about. I know how hard it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u27	And they want quality.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u28	No, I want them to be able to buy them and light their stove in winter, that's what I want! Quality wood and currently in large retail chains are sold in bags at an insane price. If you and the expensive fireplace buy such wood, that's another matter. Mr. Sabanov, you know very well that the wood is being distributed to the local population and they are going to the merchants. They don't stay in the Gorski. The Gorski have made their auctions. They go to the trader, who ultimately decides at what price to sell them depending on the profit, because here we are talking about wood quality. They've picked up wet wood, Mr. Sabanov, and this wet wood they want to implement immediately, they won't wait for it next year. That's why I'm saying this law isn't the time. Anyone who's not familiar with these trials, he doesn't understand them. I know what the process of extracting wood is and getting to the end user, to the one that burns wood. No merchant wants to keep it, wait for it to dry, then sell it. They want to realize right away. Mrs. Yankova, I deliberately escaped this topic in order not to be accused by colleagues from GERB that I am already doing political manipulations. Yeah, that's the truth you said, and I didn't, but you brought it up. Because certain individuals, companies that will be given the opportunity to distribute these chips, these pellets, which you said, will be 100% used next year in the local elections, to enable these socially vulnerable layers of the Bulgarian population to be driven to vote for one or another political force. It's just that you pushed me. I believe that this is a conclusion that you have practically seen in your region, because there is the most need for such things. Again, quite in good faith, colleagues, we are asking you to drop this bill today and not deal with it. Create, first, the conditions to be able to sell this quality wood, the briquettes that are quality, so that people can afford them, because the social packages that are being distributed are not enough. They will not cover the needs of most consumers because they affect those who are socially vulnerable and socially weak. And the rest of the people who will have their family budgets loaded up extra, what's left for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, before I give the floor for the next speech, one message: Today, on 16 November, it was received and will be sent to the MPs a joint draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act adopted on the first vote on 15 November. The project is prepared by the Committee on Culture and Media on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the duration of written proposals for a second vote. For the next speech was written the People's Representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! We are deeply aware that Bulgaria needs urgent legislation in the direction of preserving the clean air. Someone mentioned that the state and government are here at the moment showing determination to resolve the issue. In my opinion, and in our opinion, this determination is extremely late and now, given that we have a two-month period in order not to have the sanctions imposed on us, it is necessary to proceed to some legislation to show that something will be done. You will probably report in this programme and to these people that raising the tax on old cars in order to protect air cleanness, reducing dust emissions will also be one of the measures. But this is not the way, Mr. Minister, it is not the way to constantly stir in someone's pocket. With what will that tax protect the clean air and where do these funds go? In one municipality's total chunk and it distributes them, regardless of whether it will protect the air, will build, whether it will do something else. I would also like to mention a late decision of the Monitoring Committee under the Operational Programme at Priority Axis 5. For a year and a while, like Iankova said, even some have tried to dial requests to replace the combustion plants... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend the time, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u31	Please extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u32	...by replacing the combustion plants with those that are more environmentally friendly. There were two other components, two directions that had to be financed. The resources under Priority Axis 5 are around 60 million. Euros. Technical assistance was provided for in a larger amount. The absorption, as we can see from the reports, is lower. That's the details. I want to stress why it happened so that they dropped out according to some methodology, whether it is wicked or not, let others comment on it, but the results of it show that only in our country and only in our country the fight against fine dust particles is aimed at replacing the burners and solid fuel stoves. What are we doing right now? Which lobby did we serve, Minister? What makes and sells torches? I have made an account that this will affect 50............................. 60 thousand households in Bulgaria. Those 50 000 households here some of the colleagues made a mistake that the pellets would be distributed free of charge, no, the pellets are bought, ladies and gentlemen! But these people, putting innovation in their heating, will be forced to buy this fuel. I mean, we're 65 million. Euros, by handing them out to seven of our municipalities, I repeat seven of our municipalities, what about the other twenty-several that remain? There, people won't breathe that air. People and mayors need to know they've been deprived of that money. I'd like to insert another element, we're fighting the demographic crisis. All people want to breathe fresh air, no fine dust particles in the air. We direct the money to seven municipalities. Isn't it an action to direct migration and people to these seven municipalities? I think there's a need for this law, but let's, like most of the talkers, express their opinion that we need to set things straight. We assign to the mayors functions that they are unable to perform.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u33	Transboundary pollution?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u34	The colleague here gave us a hint of cross-border pollution. What about the trans-communal contaminants? I'll give you examples. I'm traveling the other day on the Trakiya highway. They're burning the stairwells. Some will say, he's crazy! The rice ploughs are lit because the rice is reaping late. The pollution is from the municipality of Combine, where there are many rice ploughs. When the wind blows, he will go to the neighboring municipality for example and there will be pollution there and someone, if he measures it, will mark a number per year, for which the mayor of the neighboring municipality must be responsible, and he the man hal haber does not have that there is no one who has set fire there because he does not want to dissect or do not want to plow so that he can waste less oil when he has to sow the next year. I'm giving you a small case. My colleagues and I have been traveling around the country for several days. Yesterday I was in the poorest municipality in the European Union. I'm not gonna tell her her name, but on the way, people are always dragging wood around who took a branch, who took a log, who stopped the van and loads from sticks to stumps. So where's the standard here, Minister?! How do we control these people? Who's gonna control them? It's very thin the ice he's stepping on right now. It is good to report to the European Commission, it is good to show results, but in this case for me there are many things that need to be touched in this law, there must be a more adequate policy when there is some resource allocated to these municipalities. I am sure that when the managing authority invites the relevant seven municipalities, someone will be found to appeal to this administrative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Genov, and you, like most colleagues who have spoken so far, are paying more attention to the villages, the firewood and what is to come about the Operational Programme. Do you not think that attention should be paid to large cities where the sources of pollution have a slightly different profile? It is not that we do not share what is happening in the villages that we have expressed this position already They are still struggling to supply firewood, heating wood, let alone think at this stage at the threshold of the heating season to replace both stoves and burners, and so on. I believe that we must be very precise in this regard. That's not what I'd like to say. We set up responsibilities, and we want it to function. You do not share that it is not right to take part in the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision when certifications for a site, quality, are not respected to be taken away for the benefit of the State wood, solid fuels in this case? Is the state agency for metrology and technical supervision ready, Mr. Genov, to take these wood? Where are the playgrounds, is resource available, capacity available? It has to be a complex approach. That's our view. I hope that you will accept such a position. But we must be very careful in the villages, because the subject is very sensitive and in view of this we will abstain at first reading to support the bill. We hope to overcome these misunderstandings for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Popov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Genov, yes, the poorest municipality in Bulgaria is Boynitsa, it is the smallest. Only that's not the only problem. The problem is also in larger municipalities and in district centers because people are poor because people have no resources, no finances, no money to pay their electricity, no matter how cheap it may seem to the government of this electricity and are therefore forced to collect, as you said, wood, chopsticks in both major cities and district centers. I have colleagues here from Vidin, too, can come to the Northwestern region of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, to see how people warm up winter time and with what. Now, introducing these requirements on the threshold of the heating season will increase the prices of this type of fuel, it is inevitable. But really here several speakers before you said that GERB supported these amendments. You don't have to declare it whenever you mess with the pocket of the poorest, GERB is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A third line to Mr. Genov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Here you are, Mr. Genov, for the duvet you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u40	To Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Chakarov, yes, the Metrology Agency is a universal organ, as you can see. It controls dams, controls elevators, controls fuel quality, will now control wood quality as well. I am as convinced as you are that I am also extremely prejudiced that it does not have this capacity at the moment and at your first part of the line, yes, and people in large cities should breathe fresh air, but should not be exclusively and at their expense discriminated against others. Because if you look at this list of twenty-several municipalities, there are no villages, there are municipalities and there are medium-sized cities. To Mr. Popov. I can't predict whether the price will go up or not. Perhaps this will happen next season, because time will show whether or not these measures will succeed. And I can't make an estimate of the price, but that people at this end are getting warm this way I saw for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Genov. For the next speech, "Vasil Tsvetkov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u42	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would very much like to state at the beginning of my speech that we are not talking here at all about a price and an increase in the price of solid fuels and wood. We're only talking about quality here. I think that we should pay more attention to this, and with the draft amending the Atmospheric Air Act, one of the measures taken at national level is in order to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case which finds that Bulgaria is condemned for non-compliance with the standards of fine particulate matter. Currently, over 25 cities account for over-the-counter standards, so the amendment of the Law introduces a requirement for the quality of solid fuels, coal and briquettes used for domestic heating, which is one of the main guidelines for improving air quality. The authority that controls, repeats, controls the application of these requirements and sanctions to offenders shall be determined. It is envisaged that the control functions should be assigned to officials authorised by the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. This agency will only control solid fuels, briquettes and coal. He won't control the wood. § 31 in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill describes that the wood and their quality will be controlled by a decree of the Ministry of Agriculture. The implementation of these measures is necessary for two reasons: reducing the emissions of fine particulate matter and preventing the violation of sulphur dioxide standards in certain municipalities that use coal for heating. The specific requirements for the quality of solid fuels will be detailed in a regulation on the quality of solid fuels, which is intended to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. The regulation will introduce standards on the content of sulphur and ash in coal and briquettes, packaging requirements, labelling of the packaging, as well as on the conditions, procedures and methods of quality control. Final provisions, as I said, provide for the requirements for wood offered for the population in order to introduce wood not per tonne but per cubic. Another requirement for wood will also be the time for its extraction, which aims to sell already dry wood, which has less harmful emissions. By supporting these changes, we will increase air quality and improve the environment of our lives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u43	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here you are, you have a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Several times it's about the mayors, their powers and their duties. In this regard, I would like to make a statement stating that this bill provides for the extension of the representation regime of the mayors who implement the programmes under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. These programmes provide strategies for improving air quality in the respective municipalities. At present, the measures planned and implemented by the local authorities are clearly not effective enough to deal with excess standards. One of the reasons for this is the insufficient commitment of some of the mayors to this problem, which requires municipalities, which monitor the non-compliance with these requirements and the directive on cleaner air in Europe with regard to the so-called directive In cases of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or objective criteria for reducing pollution levels, the mayors of municipalities will have national responsibility. The current banning regime is obviously not sufficient in terms of the active work of the mayors and municipal authorities for the implementation of the programmes, as well as for the achievement of the objectives set in them, which is imperative given the nature of the problem, as well as the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-488/15, according to which Bulgaria has not complied with the standards for fine particulate matter. In this context, it is necessary to introduce objective criteria for assessing progress in achieving the objectives and the relevant sanctioning for their non-compliance. We all know that mayors are a competent environmental authority and should carry out their duties. Of course, we will take into account the motives of the National Association of Municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria and we will submit between first and second reading proposals that will further refine the powers of the mayors and the scope of their powers. We are aware that the mayors' options are limited and in this regard we will specify the provisions in some of the following directions. They do not take away much resource, do not take away and who knows what administrative commitments, but, on the other hand, will have an extreme impact on the quality of the atmospheric air. First of all is the landscaping of urban parks and the creation of new green areas. Of course, building a street network is also one factor that depends largely on local authorities. The movement organization is also fully within the authority of the mayors. Where there are areas of concentration of pollution, they could limit the organisation of movement so as to be reduced. It was just mentioned by colleagues to seek sanctions for the burning of tires, textile products and so on. These sanctions should be recorded in local regulations, which is entirely within the authority of the mayors. Another thing the mayors can do in this regard is to make a joint control with the state of solid fuel traders. The control of construction works is also exclusively within the authority of the mayors. Energy efficiency measures must continue, this is an essential feather in this direction. And, of course, as far as possible and as far as the mayors allow, stimulating the gasification processes. Colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to make a call to all of you... Let us not continue to ride the wave of populism. As true as the claim is that taxes are raised on a large scale for every citizen taken out of the pocket of the poor, it is true that fuel prices will increase. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, please come in for a first line of speech. Second Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Shishkov, you said that the mayors' resources were limited. They don't have any resources at all, colleague Shishkov! [[Noise and lines.]] For example, I say that in Ruse Municipality, three employees, two are ecologists. How do these two people who don't have an appliance, on top of that, throw air cleanness at each other and what's burning? Ridiculous allegations on your part! And second of all, colleague, this isn't about the mayors. Yeah, you're gonna mess up another responsibilities, burden the local administration with another responsibilities, without providing them with neither capacity nor resource. But this is about sewering on your part of the warehouses. From now on, one warehouse will meet new requirements for wood, others will not meet. From now on, I can tell which warehouses will be responsible and who will not respond to those who are close to the authorities will respond, others will not respond. It's clear! [[Noise and lines.]] You are making another attempt with every single law, there is almost no law in this Forty-fourth National Assembly, in which you do not see any lobbying interests on your part. Every single one of them! The bad news is that these laws eventually hit the poverty of Bulgarian citizens and increase it. You cannot fight environmental laws poverty because it is the cause of bad atmospheric air in Bulgaria. If people had enough money, if they had a job, there wouldn't be such a consumption of solid fuel, for example. People were gonna turn on their air conditioning. It is much easier than dragging buckets of wood and coal and walking in the woods to collect matches, but they are forced to do so because of your policy or rather a lack of policy regarding the uploading of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. You're saying there was no tax hike or tax hike. This simply does not even deserve a comment because it is notoriously known that taxes and fees are raised despite your promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. Are there any other people willing to take the floor for a line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the end of my speech, I made an appeal not to ride the wave of populism. Now I will make another call: colleagues, read the laws! Read them! There's no record of an increase in the price. Let me see where this is recorded. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, with regard to the administration, do not forget the commitment made by the government to increase the remuneration in the administration. This is an additional incentive to these administrations. You say you're fighting poverty with the Law. This law fights health, colleagues. People's health! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A few hours ago I went through a medium-sized Bulgarian town. The smog and smoke that had taken over him was so strong that I wanted to take a picture and show it to you. This air we breathe it, our children breathe it! And are you opposed to our children not breathing the air that is currently generated? Yeah, the law isn't perfect in that kind of way. Yes, it will require repairs between first and second readings, but do not reject it. It's the right law and it's in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u49	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other statements on the draft? Come in, Mr. Kostadinov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u50	I don't respond to lines from the hall that aren't from a microphone. Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The debate, I think, is good. You've probably noticed that I'm a little restrained when there are sharper political altercations. I prefer, as they say, some professional amplification. I want to introduce you to a factology that, in my opinion, none of you will like. I will basically repeat what I said at the Commission meeting in order to be consistent. Month April 2017: Bulgaria is guilty of systematic and continuous exceeding of daily and annual air pollution standards with fine particulate matter. In addition, the Bulgarian authorities are late in taking measures to improve the air as soon as possible.Supremely, Luxembourg, the European Court of Justice supposed against Bulgaria for permanent poor air quality, mainly in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, North, Southwestern and Southeastern Bulgaria. Look at the facts. With my greatest desire and my greatest ambition to point out and say: here is the man responsible for the poor quality of the atmospheric air, I will not be able to do it because I have to do something else. I must also point out the colleague Ivelina Vassileva, and I must finally point out myself, because I was responsible for the air in Stanishev's government. See what happens and what Bulgaria does. And I think, colleagues, that when you start making political impressions here, you lead the National Assembly away from a very important issue. We are facing an extremely complex issue after the judgment of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg against Bulgaria, because Bulgaria has just once again been sleeping, I will say it for a long time in these matters. In 2007, when we have to introduce these standards twice after 2007. In 2009 and 2010, Bulgaria twice asked the European Commission not to apply the highest fine particulate standards. The European Commission refused this in 2011. Bulgaria is trying in 2013 to present to the Commission and to say: well, we, see, do not violate the norms. In 2014 the European Commission rejected this thing and in September 2015 filed a case and in 2017 condemned Bulgaria. Colleagues, this is short history. The investigation of what is the number of 118 people per 100 thousand, the second in the world of mortality caused by the excess of standards? I will tell you why we will abstain and what we want to do. We want, honourable Minister, honourable Members, we want extremely precise texts, as the Law is currently not balanced. He is in a hurry because we are being pressured by the judgment, Bulgaria has been convicted, but no sanctions have been imposed yet. If no measures are taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water, sanctions will be imposed on Bulgaria and then you will really be able to point your finger at us with me and Ivelina Vassileva and Neno Dimov and many more colleagues, but this will hardly solve the issue. We want a balanced, sustainable, measured law which, on the one hand, does not transfer everything to mayors and municipalities because they will not be able to do so. I will tell you something else, on the other hand, at the Commission meeting, the representative of the Association of Municipalities heard for the first time that municipalities were an environmental authority. I don't agree with that either. Yes, we will accept some of their remarks, take into account not to burden and do not give in, to burden the poorest people financially. Here I know that I cannot make a reply, I will do it as part of the statement: a colleague, no law fixed prices, but due to legislative actions and settlement of public relations, appears as an effect probably increasing the price. We do not believe that GERB wants to increase prices. We want to think together and warn you: there will be trouble! If it doesn't work out very well, if it does, it'll be bad for both us and you. In conclusion: we will abstain. We want extremely precise balancing of the texts. Municipalities need to get used to being an environmental management body, take things into their own hands, because they also have responsibilities. That's our position. I see the issue is beginning to develop slightly politically. Please, this is an extremely serious matter, and I'm worried about how we're going to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? There are no lines. For the procedure please come in, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please put to the vote a procedure for extending the plenary session until the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u53	Thank you. I will put this proposal to the vote. Is there a reverse proposal to complete our work on this point before parliamentary control? That's what the proposal is about. I won't. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. We can safely continue our work on the Bill. Next statement please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I in the Committee on the Environment and Waters have spoken about the financial provision of this law, as this is not seen through the budget and in the three-year forecast budgetary framework for 2019. There is no indication of the valuation of these measures that we propose in the Law. Simply put, Bulgaria has the dirtiest air of fine dust particles in the European Union. Bulgaria is condemned. The European Commission has given us two months of time and according to Mrs. Vasileva, we must express determination. So, under a surdine, if we have to say it in Bulgarian: we have to lie to the European Commission that we are taking adequate measures. Yeah, we have to do this thing, but, again, when something's in the process of legal frameworks, it has to be financially secured. It is written in the Motives that for what we entrust to the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, 500 thousand. lv. I don't know how many of you are convinced that that 500 grand. lv. It will be enough to buy a laboratory to secure people to carry out these wood and coal checks. Next, we have to say that in the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Program, which is uploaded to discuss the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water, developed with the assistance of the World Bank, nothing new is told to us. We must emphasise that one of the findings is about the broken link between the institutions. Here we have to say that the regulation that we entrust to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to develop, I am also a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food and I have not heard from him this topic being raised. I have not heard from him and to be embedded in the vision of the new common agricultural policy, as it is one of the possibilities for this namely subordination between institutions and operational programmes. I was in Vidin with my colleagues recently, and I have to tell you that there are three stadiums built with funds under the Rural Development Program, and there are no football teams there, and there are no children, because they said that there are two students in the first grade, in pre-school age. Can't that money be transferred, mate? Can't they be transferred to build small installations to gasify these settlements? This is not seen in the state programme, in state policy and in the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Programme. Those measures they're telling us about... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, you have stopped and South Stream! So when something we propose as legal changes, it is good to see it through the budget. I graduated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u56	Guys, I apologize. Now I'm gonna give you three more minutes to talk, but I'm tired of Vidin talking people who find it on the map and with GPS. Philip Popov didn't get up to answer because his two grandfathers were from there. However, a colleague, I can tell you: in Vidin a long time ago, since 2013, unemployment has decreased in the municipality, where you said that two stadiums were made - Ruzhintsi, unemployment has fallen to a position now to wonder where to find people and the programs. Philip can tell you that. This one first. Secondly, this money was distributed by Oresharski and Chobanov, the 300 million that you scattered to the municipalities and made three stadiums in villages where the average age is 70 years old. You did this. Why are you telling me that stadiums... Now our mayors are wondering because they are now our ruling mayors and unemployment for this reason has fallen, how to protect the stadiums so people won't steal them. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's the truth. Don't talk to me about wood, unemployment, that sort of thing. We didn't set up installations! When did you go to Vidin, and do you know where Boynitsa municipality is? If I let you go without a phone, will you find this community? You know a lot about talking without ever going in there and not even knowing it. For a long time according to statistics, neither Vidin nor Vidin municipalities are the poorest in Bulgaria and the European Union. Check your stats not to quote the truth. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. You have the opportunity for a doppelganger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear colleague, I was in Vidin yesterday. It's tragic there. No unemployment!? You know what people said? That they are moving across the Danube into Romania to live. That's what people said. Whole families are being moved to Novo village and are living much better there. They even wanted a referendum. This is what they told me: tell Sofia that we want to break away from Bulgaria. I don't know, when you go there, what kind of eyes do you look at these people with?! [[Relations from the National Representative Vladimir Toshev. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Full unemployment. Do you know, Mr. Toshev, what is the paradox? [[Reply from MP Vladimir Toshev.]] The nearest region to Brussels, to the European Union is your "Vidin," and is the poorest. Now that's a paradox. You've been in charge there for 10 years. What have you done? You didn't do anything. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Colleagues from BSP, very sad. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is a pity that even in a topic so essential to society you have failed to outdo yourself. Your political horizon only comes down to, as your colleague said just now, a spectacular quote-in protest on Saturday or Sunday. That's where the whole political horizon stops. That's why people don't vote for you, you know. Just because of that, because you have an imaginary vision and nothing concrete. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you were a real opposition party, today the debate would not have turned into scaring people, but you would have come out and said an alternative. With an apology, only Mr. Kostadinov's statement was really resonant, logical and made sense in his speech. Everything else was total populism and nothing more. I'm not brushing him. It's just something that's real. Colleagues, we're talking about air quality. Anyone who swears by this House, anyone who goes to become mayor or municipal councillor, in any institution at all, swears to work for the interests of the people, their children and generations ahead to live in a better environment. Isn't that right? However, unfortunately, you forget that the moment you step on this stand and say things that are not true. I expected today's debate to be much more constructive, because when we talk about such a problem, we always talk about complex measures. The bill proposed by the Council of Ministers is precisely part of the complex measures. Complex measures can be many and in recent years the government has taken many such steps. You scared people about local taxes and fees that the environmental component is introduced into the definition of the tax. It's part of the complex measures. In recent years, of course, thanks to European subsidies, the state has invested, and municipalities in particular, a huge resource in improving the quality of the transport sector. I will only give you an example next year in Sofia Municipality more than 90% of all urban transport, including the subway, will meet the highest environmental requirements. It's part of the complex measures again. Complex measures are all investments in parks, in new green systems all part of the future development of the state. The quality of atmospheric air is precisely when we talk about health, precisely when we talk about our future generations. I really hoped that today's debate would be constructive. Yeah, the law isn't perfect. We in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government have also discussed our concerns, and I will now say some of them, but the positive and correct approach is precisely everyone here to unite around this topic. Yes, everyone can have their different vision, but you didn't present your vision. You said you were against it, but it's the easiest way, colleagues. It's the easiest way to play with people's fears, try to provoke some kind of wave of discontent. Scaring them that it would rise at the beginning of the heating season the price of coal and briquettes, without even bothering to read a law, to realize that it really couldn't theoretically happen in this heating season. It's not even theoretically possible. We're not talking about price, we're talking about quality. We are talking about quality, in fact, the state and the municipalities to take an even greater responsibility. The legislator gives them the pressure to control this process, because there is no way you haven't gone through a settlement and not see a cloud of smoke up there. Do you like that? With the anti-speaking, anti-theses and the fear of people, is that the point? Let's sit like this, let's go back to the periphery, let's say, hey, in the West how good it was. Why don't we move into the highest standards? Why do we always have to wait for something to happen, be in line to do anything? As far as I'm concerned, colleagues, the Bill. This was my initial idea of speech, but this was how the debate turned out that we went to a completely different political plane. The bill may be late, maybe we're pressed to some extent by the judicial decisions and sanctions that the state is facing, but I think it's good. There is no way to accuse GERB of any political bias here, as the majority of municipalities are governed by mayors of GERB, who also have to bear their responsibility. Of course, my speech is directed precisely at this part of the local government. You know very well that if some municipalities, and this is a very objective reading, are really making huge efforts in this direction, but there are municipalities and mayors who do not recognize this problem. The bill deals with these people, these municipal administrations and mayors who do not recognize the problem. It is very easy to say: four years is the term, after me others will come, they will think it, but this is not a statesman's approach. I admire the adoption of this law. I appeal to all parliamentary groups to pass this law. Yes, he has imperfections. One of the imperfections is precisely in the part of the law, of course, this is according to our parliamentary group, our vision that the mayors still have to bear personal responsibility, but it must be very precisely defined in the Law, where this responsibility lies, because not everything depends on the mayor. Both the industry and the cars, the mayor himself cannot be held responsible for activities which are subject to control by other institutions. I think that if we are constructive and think about the future of the state and future generations, we need to clear that responsibility between first and second votes. In my opinion, it should be because otherwise any mayor can decide, and there are many such that this problem is not essential or at least it does not allow him to deal with it, as he will not politically bring any dividend for it. Yeah, not always the right decisions are popular. The right decisions are not always easy to implement, but that is why people have voted for us to be in this room and look a little over our close political interests, but to look into the future and the development of the state. Health is a top priority and it must be a priority not only for this government but also for future governments. On such topics I do not think that there should be any political talk, fear of people, but to be united precisely in improving the quality of life of every Bulgarian. So I appeal to you for the last time, please support the bill, don't corrupt it. Let us really do this together so that between the first and second votes we can clear out the problematic texts that we are taking into account and move in this direction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? There aren't any. Personal explanation Mr. Kostadinov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u62	Thank you. I use the right to a personal explanation because my colleague Nenkov also mentioned my name because of the Greek maxim: fear the Danas when they bring you gifts. Every praise on the right causes a concussion on the left. I'll see to it that I return the gesture to praise you on the left to cause a concussion on the right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u63	Did I offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u64	Colleague Nenkov, my personal explanation is because you used my name in the context of why BSP cannot manage and why people do not vote. In the new history of Bulgaria there is only one political power, unlike several others who have always completed their mandate: The SDS has a completed mandate with the government of Kostov, as well as to evaluate it, NDSV, DPS, BSP on the left. The only political force that has not completed its two mandates, and probably will not finish the third, is GERB. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the only political force, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u65	You're out of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u66	Thank you, that was my personal explanation. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u67	Thank you. Are there any other statements? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You don't have time, ma'am. The group ran out of time and extended time. I'm sorry, I can't. There are no other speeches. I'm closing the discussion. Mr. Secretary, come in. After you, we'll proceed with the vote. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start by saying that I have always treated the institution of the National Assembly with deep respect and those 240 MPs who represent the Bulgarian citizens. I tried very carefully to listen to the entire debate on the Law. Thanks for this debate, because he's useful anyway. Many times it has been mentioned here that it is a criminal procedure. Yeah, that's a fact, but that fact can't be leading at all. For me and for my team, the leading fact is that Bulgarian citizens breathe air that is not good. This is not a text in law, this is not some figure that has set a norm. It's better health, it's longer life, it's better quality, and from here we have to understand what this law is about. Yes, it may have side effects, such as the possible penal procedure, but the main one is the environment in which Bulgarian citizens live. From this point of view, I cannot accept speaking from this tribune, which is, to put it mildly, incompetent, or perhaps something more, people who have not bothered to read what this law says. I'm gonna start with what we talked about, new responsibilities, quotes, mayors. There is no new responsibility. To date, before this law has been passed, and in recent years, mayors have been an environmental authority and have been making programmes for air quality. Moreover, at the moment Operational Programme "Environment" financed 28 such municipalities, which make these programs new or updated their old ones, 11 of which I am towards the end. And all these local authorities, all these mayors were happy to take the funding, no one gave up on them. These municipal programs aim to improve air quality. This is the goal. What does this law say? If there are no real results, only then should there be a penalty. Excuse me, if we do something on paper that has no real results, do we achieve the main goal of the Bulgarian citizens to breathe cleaner air? Obviously not! When a goal is not achieved, what is the instrument for the mayor to achieve that goal? The division of responsibilities is key and this law makes the difference between two of the three levels very clear. These are the national responsibility, the responsibility of the local authorities and the individual responsibility of each citizen. The national responsibility is related to the qualities of fuels. Of course, local authorities cannot and could not control what is the quality of fuels that are placed on the market. It is normal for this product to be controlled by that agency in the country that has control over the products.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's her duty. It is normal for local authorities to carry out their duties. You say she didn't have any responsibilities, that she didn't have powers. It's not true he doesn't have powers. Who organizes transport within the local authorities? Who organizes the territorial structure within the municipalities to determine where what is going to happen? This is entirely the responsibility of the local authorities. Someone mentioned that there were municipalities that had two ecologists, and maybe there were less. Well, that's exactly the question of a lack of commitment to this problem. This is exactly the proof and in support of this law, and you are using it as an argument against. One of the things that made a profound impression on me, and I will try very briefly to take into account this issue is the ignorance that there is more than one law in Bulgaria. Dear gentlemen, perhaps I should start from Mr. Milkov you should know that when it comes to technical means, they are in the Law on Technical Requirements for Products, this is to the Ministry of Economy, which is leading, but this is a completely different law and there is no way in the Law on Cleanliness of Air to refer to the other law. There is, but it's not right. In principle, it is good for every law to deal with that scope within the same law. When we talk about wood, if you had read the Transitional and Final Regulations, you would see that there is an obligation to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible to make a regulation with the requirements for the moisture content in the country and that solid fuel to be covered. When we talk specifically about wood, here it is much more a question of organisation than a question of financing them to be more dry. One of the recommendations given by the World Bank is, for example, not to sell them per kilogram, where obviously moisture gives additional weight, but by some other criterion to be stimulating, so that the wood that is sold is less humidity, which naturally leads to less air pollution. You also talked about burning tires. I'm sorry, it's already regulated, it's more of a ban on the Waste Management Act. If you had read this law, you would probably know that the local authorities have responsibilities and their inspectorate is obliged to do these checks -- something more -- this was done jointly with the regional inspections last year by several mayors in the country. As far as textile waste is concerned, you are from the parliamentary group, which is actually opposed to the Law on Changes to the Waste Management Act, which wants separate collection of textile waste so that they can be monitored and not allowed to be burned. Finally, you mentioned that within the working room there were people breathing dirty air. Excuse me, but this is from the competence of health inspections when it comes to working environments, and you should not mislead Bulgarian citizens. The least they can do is know from whom to seek information and responsibility when they have a particular problem. Mr. Chakarov mentioned that the mayor has a four-year term. No, Mr. Chakarov, the one who stands for mayor... The mayor is an institution and it does not have a 4-year term, as does the minister, and so does the government. The mayor is an institution that has to make a continuum of a certain policy. The voter's assessment is during the elections, but regardless of which mayor comes and goes, there is one length, because the problem of air cleanness, as well as a number of other problems, exceeds a very single mandate. The responsibility of the new mayor will be assessed by what was in the previous three years, but he has the opportunity to do so in the next year when he takes active measures. In any case, the liability of the institution remains and cannot be revoked. Otherwise I could safely say after 5 April last year that the Minister of Environment is new and must start all over again, and so every four years. That's not gonna happen. And whether it should be centralised or decentralised, it is a policy issue. Decentralisation is a philosophy of conservatively targeted parties. Of course, it's the liberals' centralization. I'm going to continue with something that really deeply impressed me about the idea that this season would raise prices. First, there is no way this season to raise prices, because even if this law enters, it will have the earliest effect in the next heating season. What does this law have in mind? This law aims to allow the market for higher-quality fuels. They may be more expensive per pound, but according to studies, they are not more expensive calories, and in fact calories is what we need to evaluate, the heat that people get. We can have a double-win situation here without raising prices to have an increase in air quality and this is a direct increase in air quality because the appliances that burn are one side and there is a slower process because there is no way to force people to change them, but placing on the market is something that can be controlled and can give direct effect. And we need urgent measures, and this is precisely such an emergency measure. I'll link things to what you said about the Operational Program and the demographic crisis. We will stimulate the people who are in these 7 municipalities - Vidin, Smolyan, Montana. I don't mind there being a stream of people there or at least those who live there being detained. Of course, these are municipalities that deserve, not that others do not deserve, but the resource agreed in this operational programme is extremely limited. What we are doing now will happen as a pilot, so that from next year, when we negotiate the new operational programme, we can ensure that there is a resource for everyone. Outside of this resource, there are a number of other instruments, including European, for funding, but there are many mayors who have sought an alternative to solving this issue. These are the mayors who have actually accepted this problem, have read it and are doing everything they can to move forward. It is not normal and it is not natural for such types of mayors to be sanctioned, unlike others who have one environmentalist who do not take any action. If it comes to sanctioning Bulgaria, the penalty must be distributed not to those who make efforts, but to those who do not make efforts. It's a basic principle. Of course, I will not dwell here on the absurdity that pellets and chips will be sold under the Operational Program. This was clarified and perhaps it is good for BSP within its ranks to clarify the criteria and philosophy of the Law. I will conclude by saying that it is absurd to oppose poverty to health. It's just absurd! Health is priceless, it has no price, don't oppose it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have finished the debate and are going to vote, as I promised before the Minister's speech. We are voting at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act, No 802-01-43. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 140 MPs voted: 85, against 13, abstention 42. Revoting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u71	Please, re-election mode. We are voting again at the first reading of the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act. They voted 139 MPs: 83 against 14, 42 abstentions. The Atmospheric Air Cleansing Act was adopted in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mrs. Dora Yankova has the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u72	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! [[Big part of the MPs from GERB and OP leave the hall.]] I'm sorry you're leaving, because my negative vote relates to the way the bill was tabled. Our parliamentary group is extremely serious about atmospheric air policy. Here and in the compliance report, and in what the Council of Ministers submitted, again, colleagues from GERB and the ruling coalition, you were used. What really happened? We have seen that there will be a register of solid fuels that will have better quality. But we do not know what is the capacity of the state and of the business for next year or what years this register will happen and this as a policy to happen in the country. We have seen that there is a policy that is related to the use of liquid fuels. We did not understand what horizon and how time the Council of Ministers would pass this policy. However, we understand that the mayors of municipalities will make programmes and projects. Yeah, and so far they've been making them. And we know that there will be many control bodies on the mayors of municipalities. However, in art. 19 of this bill is written that: the Minister of Environment and Water is responsible for the clean air policy. Now we've inserted under it that the mayor of the municipality is responsible for the field policy. What did you guys really do? A fuel register, some criteria for solid fuels, parallel to this, is not clear what horizon of time they are with, some sanctions that will be imposed, a transfer of responsibility to the mayors, that is, a simplified attitude to this process that will not help the clean air to happen sooner. Just because you're gonna fine the mayors, you're gonna fine them or not, that doesn't matter. The policy that the Council of Ministers is passing is in a piece, not teamy, not interinstitutional, and this cannot be done in the coming years, not now, but in the coming years, not again on the poor Bulgarian citizens. That is why I voted consciously against! Our group has an extremely serious attitude towards clean air policy. Where are the financial instruments to support people? Where are the opportunities for them to be able to provide another quality fuel? That we are going to help a small group of 40 million is nothing; that in this budget there are 500 thousand again for meteorology control tools, and that is nothing. We've passed a declarative law that won't work out. Our concerns are right that this will fall only on Bulgarian citizens in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. We have concluded the procedure for discussing and adopting the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The ministers have been warned. While we prepare for their hearing, they will take their seats. New questions for the period 9 November 2018. "November 15th, 2018 A question has been received by the MPs Alexander Dimitrov Paunov and Alexander Tihomirov Simov to Ekaterina Zaharieva.. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the development of relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia and the position of the Republic of Bulgaria for the name Northern Macedonia. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 November 2018. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Galya Zaharieva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Lubomir Bonev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. Procedure in the manner of conduct...... please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u74	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is related to the fact that I have already asked Prime Minister Boyko Borisov a question for more than two weeks. Last week we received a request to postpone the reply with a week that expires today. So it was logical for the Prime Minister today to answer the question I asked him. If he doesn't want last week, he can come this week. He was abroad this week and couldn't answer. If you couldn't do it this week, why didn't you answer me last week? I know why you didn't answer me last night. He didn't answer because he didn't want to answer. The question is simple: exactly what powers has the Prime Minister of Valeri Simeonov transferred with regard to the agencies, including the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, because obviously Valeri Simeonov did not understand that he has responsibilities. He himself said that he only has coordination functions. Obviously, someone is controlling this agency, is it the prime minister, is it the deputy prime minister? Let's figure out who's controlling her. This is the question the Prime Minister does not want to answer, so last week he postponed it by a week, clearly knowing that he is not coming today. I want you to check to see if next week he's coming, and will there ever be a Prime Minister from here on out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Of course the Prime Minister is reporting and explaining his absence. You have the right to control this process. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, more than a month ago we asked a question to the then Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications related to the privatisation procedure at Plovdiv Airport. The procedure has already been terminated. Then the minister returned an answer that had nothing to do with the questions we had asked him. I asked, again in a procedure in the manner of conduct, the President of the National Assembly Mrs Karayancheva to return this question for an answer to the substance. She made that commitment. It's been a month since then, and we still don't have an answer to the question. The issue is written, it is not something to discuss before the National Assembly. I suppose the change of ministers does not exempt the new minister from fulfilling commitments made by the old minister. The information is not interrupted by the Minister's change, and it seems to me it is high time that you could cooperate with us to get the answers to our questions. In my opinion, they are important and reveal the essence and the way the concession procedures are conducted in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You're right to receive a reply from the new minister. The institution really owes this. We'll check it out. We are moving on to questions from today's parliamentary control. The first is to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence, who will answer a question from the MPs Alexander Simov and Alexander Paunov about the official prize for a legionary. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 4 October 2018, one of the creators and active participants in the activities of the organization.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It was held in spite of the active protests of the two largest Jewish organizations in our country "Shalom" and "Bnei Brit" who officially announced that giving such honor to Markov is essentially a rehabilitation of an unrepentant participant in a pro-fascist and anti-Semitic organization. In this regard, the question is: what were your motives for honoring Djanko Markov and what was your position on the protests of Jewish organizations? Are you going to comply with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u80	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear gentlemen Pawnov and Simov! On 19 September 2018, the Ministry of Defence received a letter from the President of the Union of Alumni of the Military of His Majesty's Schools, the School for Reserve Officers and patriotic Hosts and Citizenship Mr. Atanas Iliev with a proposal to the Minister of Defence, Colonel Djanko Markov, alumni of the 63rd Class of the Supreme People's Military School, a veteran of World War II and a defender of the sky above Sofia, a cavalryman of the Order................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 240, para. 4 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria it is explicitly arranged that war veterans can be awarded with awards and awards under conditions and in order presented in the Rules for the Implementation of the same Law. According to the provision of art. 135, para. 1 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria veterans of the wars can be awarded by the Minister of Defence or by officials authorized by him with diploma, subject prize, cool weapon or award mark. With a ministerial order of 25 March 2014 for the announced award signs of the Ministry of Defence, I quote the legal framework, which was made by the alumni of His Majesty, schools and reserve forces, meets the requirements of the Rules for the Implementation of the Defence and Armed Forces Act. During World War II, Djanko Markov served as platoon commander of the 26th bombing regiment. In 1944, after the announcement of Germany's war on 10 September to December 1944, the regiment participated in battle tasks related to intelligence and bombing of German positions. The active positions are at Deve Bair, Strazhin, Kumanovo, Stracin, Mavovo, above Ohrid, the area between Thessaloniki and Skopje and the valley of the Lepenets River. In these tasks, Djanko Markov's plane was hit by German anti-aircraft artillery. Markov also performs military-mail tasks. On this occasion he was awarded medals, medals and other awards as follows: in August 1945, I repeat: August 1945, the commander of the people's air forces Major General Gancho Iliev awarded Djanko Markov with a rank supporter at the time of the post commander of a platoon Soviet medal for victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941. With a minister's order of 23 March 1948 of the Minister of People's Defence, the formerly famous communist figure, at that time Minister of Defence Georgi Damyanov, Djanko Markov, ranked lieutenant, was awarded a military order.................................................................... On 5 December 2012, the Minister of Defence Agno Angelov awarded Colonel Djanko Markov with an award for contribution to the Ministry of Defence, for contribution to the defence of the country, active military-patriotic activity and in connection with the 90th anniversary. After the democratic changes Djanko Markov has been awarded many different awards and on various occasions, including with the diploma of the Board of Directors "Do you listen carefully to me" by the Board of the Bulgarian Anti-fascist Union! The Bulgarian anti-fascist alliance that you support! This is on 14 December 2017, not a year ago. For his merits, Djanko Markov was produced as a colonel of the reserve with a ministerial order of 23 October 1992 by the Minister of Defence Alexander Staliyski, signed by the Chief of Staff Colonel General Luben Petrov for his contribution as a dedicated defender of the home sky in 1943 and in connection with the celebration of the air force. All these facts so far show one thing. I will also tell you what my principle is: I have never shared the Bulgarian officers with anyone who served in the king's army, the communist army or the democratic army. There are many cases in which I have awarded officers not because they were ours or yours, because the question you are asking is precisely this: this is not one of our dirty fascists. I have awarded officers who served during the different times of Bulgaria. For me they have all taken an oath to Bulgaria, not to your, our or any other party. I have also awarded two of your fellow MPs with award marks. As you can see, there has been no and no approach to ours and yours to divide people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u81	Mr. Minister, you'll have an opportunity in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u82	I'm running out of time. I'll have time to talk more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u83	Mr. Simov, come in for a line. ALEXANDER SIMOV (BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Karakachanov! Only 18 years ago of this tribune in this National Assembly, the person Djanko Markov gave a reply, which will probably be recorded in the most disgraceful things said in the Bulgarian Parliament. From this tribune, he said the deportation of a hostile population, understand the Jews, is not a crime. In this sense, our question was: how do you feel that the two largest Jewish organizations "Bney Brit" and "Shalom" officially protested the award service. This is also a question of attitude towards the past. It seems to me that the flirtation of the Ministry of Defense with people expressing Nazi ideas in the past or abusing this ideology is beginning to happen too often. Do I need to remind you of your subordinate Ivo Antonov, photographed making a Hitler greeting? Now Djanko Markov... We see that the descendants of those who suffered from legionnaires do not accept his reward, because in the end, there is a great principle that we must adopt, in modern Europe, all that we swear and believe today rests on an anti-fascist basis. I accept that I even accept every anti-communist to say this from this room, but anti-communism without anti-fascism becomes Djanko-Markovtina. I'm sorry, but your answer seems to me to be formal and does not express the most important aspect of our attitude towards the past, what is our attitude towards the Bulgarian national legions, what is our attitude towards fascism in Bulgaria, which some say is gone, but we see that around figures like Djanko Markov his ghost is coming to the world again. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations: "Bravo! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u85	Dear Mr. Simov, honourable colleagues, Mr. Chairman! For me fascism, Marxism, Leninism, Stalinism are the same ugly phenomenon of terror. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the truth! [[General applause from GERB.]] I'm a historian, but I'm going to ask you to give me a reference: how many people were killed before 9 September and how many people were killed after 9 September without trial and conviction? I don't want to get into this argument. Let's leave this argument to the story. Again I said: my conduct in all my conscious activity as a publicist and politician was not to divide the nation and praise one authoritarian regime at the expense of others. For me, there is no difference between national socialism, fascism and lazy Stalinism. There's no difference, I'm making it clear! If you want, you can disprove me. Regarding your question. Your question began with a defamation and false statement. On 4 October one of the creators and active participants of the organization Union of the Bulgarian Legions was awarded Djanko Markov. Let's look at the facts now, because speaking from the National Assembly, we need to speak primarily, primarily, primarily, with the truth. Djanko Markov was born in 1922. The so-called Legion entered the high school at the age of 12. You have a very good memory and affinity for the pioneers and the chavdars. Do you think a 12-year-old pioneer could set up your party? Is there a case like this? Do you have a 12-year-old founder on Buzludzha? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why are you talking nonsense? A 12-year-old young man enters the student legion. In 1938 Dyanko Markov took a competition exam at the restored Cadet High School in Sofia at the age of 16. From there he graduated from the military school and entered it 1941. By law then and now the army is depoliticized. Since 1938, this man has been wearing a uniform, therefore he is de-po-li-ti-zi-ral! Excuse me, but you want 75 years after World War II to continue to distribute offensive qualifications and to title this one or that one as much as it suits you. I think it's about time it was over. In practice, this was also the call of the president you raised. Here's your diploma from the Bulgarian anti-fascist alliance. [[Shows a copy of the letter.]] Your colleagues, who are one of your most active members, would they give the diploma to a fascist, I ask? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria Read it! By whom was it written?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u86	Read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u87	Read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u88	The Management Board of the Bulgarian Anti-fascist Union awarded Djanko Georgiev Markov on 14 December 2017. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u89	Who signed it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u90	Wait, wait, wait! Since you're asking me about my attitude towards Jewish organizations, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u91	Who signed it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u92	I'll get you a copy. Look who signed it. I didn't sign it! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u93	Please don't get into any trouble!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u94	Since you're asking me about my attitude towards the Holocaust, and these things will answer you very simply if you listen carefully. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The answer is simple. The organization that I have the honor of running...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u95	That's a lie! That's a lie and you'll apologize after that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u96	Mr. Jablyanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u97	He's lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u98	You're lying, Mr. Zablyanov! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u99	Mr. Karakachanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u100	Because you wanted me to answer the question of my attitude towards the persecution of the Jews. Bulgaria is the only country in Europe that does not allow its Jews to be deported. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] According to all official statistics, Bulgaria has the number zero deported Jews. Bulgaria saved its Jews.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u101	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, time's up, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u102	The organization, which I have the honour of leading the IMRO, was actively involved in their rescue because in the Kyustendil Committee of five people three were members of IMRO, one was a member of the senior management. However, I ask you: what have you done with the saviors of the Bulgarian Jews, you Marxists, Leninists after 9 September? [[The President signals that time has expired. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You killed them like dogs!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u103	Time's up, Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u104	Here is the position of the Bulgarian-Jewish scientific institute...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u105	Your time is up, please! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we're done here! Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u106	I don't know which one? If you're talking about any party structures, I haven't studied them. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm just saying something very...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u107	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u108	I said something simple.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u109	You've gone into dialogue. Time's up. Please, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u110	If you hadn't knocked me over all the time, which is in violation of every rule...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u111	We're done with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u112	The answer is clear. Your question is not based on any real facts and is a slander to a veteran of the Bulgarian Army, whose name must be protected, including from the tribune of this National Assembly. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Single applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u113	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. (Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov is going to the door of the plenary. After him there are MPs from BSP for Bulgaria with the lines: Give the document! Give me the document! Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov addressed them: Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Quiet and order, please! We have a request for an affidavit. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, will you introduce us to the declaration? Honourable Members of Parliament, declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. He has the floor, Mr. Kutev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u114	I will start with just one sentence, honourable Members, that the alignment of fascism and communism is a limit that is not worthy of Bulgarian minister. Dear colleagues, over the past few months, I have the feeling that I am living in a parallel reality. Our surrounding reality is what we see around us every day, at least it seems unacceptable to me. It seems to me that the boundaries of elementary humanity have been crossed. Let's talk about it and decide for ourselves. The already famous statement by Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov about the crybaby mothers with the supposedly sick children and I won't even bother quoting it precisely because we all know it by heart. As a matter of fact, I have no feeling that anyone in this room except, of course, Mr. Simeonov's fellow party would support such a position because it is false, cynical, because it shows a face of power that is cruel and ruthless and does not deserve to exist. An even less similar person may be present in the management of the state. Again, colleagues, I have no sense that the majority in this room would defend such a, I would say, a ridiculous position. Yes, you do. It seems to me that colleagues from GERB have distanced themselves from aggressive cynicism and are trying to cover it up in history. At the very least, because apparently such a moral collapse is of no use to the government. I'm sure the humane receptors of all of us aren't so bad that we don't understand why such behavior is politically intolerable. So far, the situation is clear. Obviously, the citizens of Bulgaria, and not only the protesters, but the vast majority of the citizens are frankly outraged by such insolence. That is why the protests of the mothers of children with disabilities were supported by many citizens - no, colleagues, not BSP is the reason for these protests. There's anger that has clear grounds. There is also a problem that continues to remain unresolved. There are people who are driven to such a crisis of existence that they are willing to do anything to earn their rights. Against the background of all this, after the obvious efforts of the power to suppress the protests and to lower the tensions, MPs from the parliamentary group of Valeri Simeonov are on the stage. One of the NFSB MPs identified the protesting mothers, and I quote: "Lumpeni, confused people, some mayor from the arrest was involved in the protest. I don't know how he's in jail, and he's at a protest, I don't know. I hope he knows. This caused new outbursts of anger among the protesters. Colleagues, we've seen the protesters many times and, believe me, they're not lumpen at all. By the way, many of the colleagues from GERB were also there. Svetlana Angelova is seeing them and Daniela Daritkova did not hear you share these definitions. Probably because you don't agree with them?! I didn't hear you resist. I know why you keep quiet. Power obviously requires some compromises from you. I hope you're aware of that. Yesterday, the situation deteriorated sharply. The colleague Petar Petrov just gave out, I quote: "Certificate in every way children." This is a definition which, in the context of MP Petrov, is an attitude towards children with disabilities. I'd take that as mere incompetence if we'd just stopped there. As they say, the man can do so much. Immediately after that came the clear finding that the children in question were not normal in any way, should be given in homes, obviously with the assumption that they will be better cared for there than their mothers and colleague Petrov will be released from the commitment to pay them the state 1200 BGN. of the lumpens in question. You see, he doesn't even understand who gets what? He didn't know until he made his official statements. Colleagues, can you imagine how that sounds in the heads of people with disabilities? No, colleagues, they have never received such money on any occasion. For reference, colleagues, some of them live with 200 BGN. a month, along with their 30-year-olds. Colleagues, they're 30, but they need care that you obviously don't understand. To inform you that 200 leva. Their monthly income for two is your salary of colleague Petrov, I mean, a daily wage. They both live for a month with what he gets in a day to afford the statements we've heard. The incompetence that is evidently manifesting colleague Petrov is no excuse because you are a MP and your job is to protect citizens, especially the most vulnerable. Do you understand, Mr. Petrov, you are appointed by them and should defend their interests, not those of Valeri Simeonov? You are appointed by the citizens, not by Valeri Simeonov, no matter what he looks like to you! Your priorities are not only wrong, colleague, but your entire worldview of what you say. As the peak of this crappy MP Petrov began to lie irresistibly in the media. In order not to sound far-fetched, I quote yesterday: "I said the following, quotes the words: "Children should be looked at by their parents, but the state should assume its obligations for these children, to be placed in the hands of specialists. What are these homes, what are these communist stories? Guys, this interview was given to Darik for radio. If you do not know when a radio works, it has recordings, they are sound files and from these sound files colleague Petrov speaks with his own voice. I listened to him and I heard him. Besides being ridiculous in all of his speech, he's lying. He's lying why? To save 200 leva. For 200 leva. He's lying every day! Not that 200 leva. A month that gets mothers to babysit their kids. For his 200 leva, because he's afraid he's gonna get out of here. Which she has to do, because what she's doing has no place here. Last but not least, colleagues from GERB. It's humiliating to agree to that. In this room, unfortunately, there were a lot of ridiculous people. Today you are the majority and you are responsible both for the fate of disabled people and for the quality of the work of the National Assembly. A majority MP speaks what he will put forward tomorrow as a bill, and the day after tomorrow he will vote. What my colleague is saying is not harmless. Today, this colleague is one of you and it is up to you whether he stays there. You are responsible for his behavior today because he obviously doesn't realize what he said or what he belongs to in society. How you will bear this responsibility is still up to you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, who will answer, firstly, a question of the National Representative Desislava Todorova and Alexander Matsurev on the implementation of Priority Axis 5. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, you have bet the quality of the atmospheric air as a top priority of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Today we adopted at first reading the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Air, a National Air Quality Program was developed. Implementation of the Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, which is directly related to the provision of financial resources to secure the measures. My question to you is: at what stage is the implementation of the priority axis 5 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u117	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Todorova, Mrs. Matsurev, the Managing Authority this year is actively seeking opportunities to achieve the objectives set under the Priority Axis. Successfully completed the implementation of the project "Creating an information system for reporting data on the quality of the air" as part of the National System for monitoring the quality of the air in real time with a beneficiary The Executive Environment Agency. It has been developed, implemented and functioning Information system for reporting atmospheric air quality data, part of the National Air Monitoring System in real time. A procedure is under way to develop and update municipal air quality programmes for 28 municipalities with impaired air quality, implementing 11 contracts and projects that are already at the final stage. In addition, the Ministry of Environment and Water is active in declaring a procedure through direct provision of unreserved financial assistance to support measures to improve air quality. To this end, a concept has been drawn up with specific parameters that reflect all the recommendations of the European Commission received within a number of technical meetings and consultations. Taking into account the limited financial resources under the Priority Axis, the same is intended to be focused on a limited number of municipalities, which have identified a major source of pollution, and with planned measures in municipal air quality programmes for the replacement of solid fuel heating appliances. These measures fall fully within the scope of the interventions recommended in the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, which is currently provided for public consultation, as well as in the World Bank's developed analyses. They are identified as measures with the greatest effect in a relatively short time when funding is available, with the aim of improving air quality and hence the living conditions of citizens. The Ministry of Environment and Water is responsible for the policy of protecting the clean air resulting from the country's commitments under European environmental legislation, and we must also take into account the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on non-compliance with the standards for particulate matter content in the ambient air under Directive 2008/50 EC. Taking action at this stage is extremely important so that this procedure can continue successfully for the country. In conclusion, during the 12th meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme on 12 November this year, members adopted a methodology and assessment criteria according to the procedure: The criteria for improving the quality of the ambient air and giving a mandate to the Ministry of Environment and Water for announcing this procedure by the end of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mrs. Todorova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive response and I would ask you to keep us informed of what's going on in the program. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u121	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? He doesn't have an ass. The next question to Minister Dimov is from the MP Atanas Stoyanov on the implementation of the targets for widespread waste. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, effective waste management is of important and key importance for the protection of nature and the environment. Their optimal and environmentally sound management largely prevents, reduces and restricts their harmful effects on human health as well. A small share of all waste in Bulgaria is the so-called mass waste. According to the provisions of the Waste Management Act, the widespread ones are those formed after the use of products from numerous sources throughout the country and because of their characteristics require special management. Most of them cover packaging waste, unfit batteries and batteries leaked from driving motor vehicles, used oils, as well as old and used tyres. My question to you is: at what stage is the implementation of the relevant targets for the management of widespread waste for the current year 2018, where and what position does Bulgaria take as compared to the achievements of the other countries of the European Union in the implementation of these objectives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently, the Republic of Bulgaria has built a successful system for separate collection, recycling and recovery of six streams of widespread waste. The country shall implement the targets of collection, recycling and recovery of all widespread waste annually. The latest final summary data available to the Ministry are for 2016. For the same year are the latest data that Eurostat gives us, on which we can compare Bulgaria with the member states. For 2016 Bulgaria achieved 48.5% collection of portable batteries in target 40%. This result is almost 2% higher than the European Union average. Bulgaria occupies one of the top three places in the European Union on the efficiency of recycling lead batteries. In 2016, the average degree of recycling of lead contained in lead-acid non-useable batteries and accumulators was 65% for all installations. At the same time, a rate of recycling of 98% of the materials contained in lead-acid batteries was achieved at a target of 65%. With regard to the obsolete electrical and electronic equipment Bulgaria has successfully implemented all its objectives of collecting and recycling, and for some categories traditionally exceeds the average for the European Union results. For 2016, Bulgaria has collected 7.9 kg per person who has dropped out of use electrical and electronic equipment from bits, with an average of 7.8 for the European Union from 23 countries that have reported. For example, when using information and telecommunications equipment, we have achieved almost 95%, with an average of 89% for the European Union. Consumer equipment achieved 98.6%, which is 7% higher than the European Union average. The highest is the result in the categories related to medical equipment where Bulgaria achieved 99.3%, compared to 88% for the European Union. In 2016, Bulgaria recycled a total of 63.8 of the packaging placed on the market, with a target in the Directive " 55%." This year, we amended the Ordinance on packaging and packaging waste, which will lead to an increase in citizens covered by the separate collection system, an increase in the number of vessels and, accordingly, an increase in the quantity and quality of packaging waste collected from the packaging to be recycled. In individual packages, data for 2016 show that the country successfully fulfils all the objectives by achieving the results and they are around and slightly above the EU average. Speaking of plastics, we're showing one of the best results. 52.6% of plastic waste is recycled in the country, with an average of 43.4 for the European Union. Only three countries in the European Union have better results than those of Bulgaria. In paper, we recycle 80.1%, in order to achieve a directive target of 60%. The average for the European Union is 83.3%, which is completely comparable to the Bulgarian results. For glass, Bulgaria recycled 70% glass packaging, at 75% on average for the European Union. In the case of end-of-life motor vehicles for 2016, the achieved level of reuse and recycling is 95%, with a target of 85%. All these data show that the efficiency of the system is relevant and, in some cases, better than those on average for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your information. It is important and useful in order to clarify the factology, clarify the current state and, above all, the trends related to issues relating to the solution of waste issues, especially of widespread waste. It is evident from the information you have given that it is working very actively in this direction, all the more so that Bulgaria is already at the average level in the European Union on the case related to our waste. More than that. I am convinced that these measures are directly and indirectly linked in general to the National Complex Plan relating to efficient waste management, and it is precisely the optimal formula to seek complex national measures on the effective use of these resources and, overall, sustainable optimal waste management. In this way, we will also establish the relevant principles which form an integral part of the decision of this case, namely the permanent prevention by reducing these repulsions by limiting them. Last but not least, of course, is the................................................................. all those who..................................... This complex set of measures covers an active, shared responsibility from all of us, from all stakeholders, the state through state institutions, local municipal authorities, producers and consumers and in general our society. It is very happy that Bulgaria occupies a good, enviable place among the countries of the European Union and the direction is right for which you have our admiration and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? He doesn't have an ass. The next question to Minister Neno Dimov is from the MP Pencho Milkov and the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Krum Zarkov. It is about measures to ensure clean air in Ruse. Mr. Milkov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! We have repeatedly addressed you with current questions about the clean air in Ruse. We have received information about specific offenders, of measures taken in relation to them and of repeated assurances that there are no new violations. The people of Ruse sense an unpleasant suffocating smell and this phenomenon is not interrupted. On the contrary, it repeats itself every night. On social networks people share constantly and self-organize themselves. No one would do that if they didn't feel a serious problem for themselves and their children. This morning it was about November 8th, when I submitted the question, there was an organization and people gathered in front of one of the Russian schools, inviting their fellow citizens to send their children to a school in masks. Going to school with masks was a fact in Ruse and some of us practiced it in the 1980s, when the environmental problems and the struggle of Russians against them began and with this the political changes in Bulgaria at all. In these days, Russians breathe dirty air again. Discontent, misunderstanding and anger why there are no changes, why nothing positive is happening, is growing. The air is contaminated not only by industrial plants but also with fine particulate matter. Measurements indicate that Russians breathe extremely contaminated with fine particulate air. The situation, in my opinion, is intolerable and is a prerequisite for social tension. When state authorities are unable to bring order, people start to spontaneously organise themselves in the measurement, and in the fact, they buy such analysts, and in the ideas of preventing further pollution. For the end of this week at the time of asking the question, this was the previous Saturday, and it is actually realized, is scheduled and blocking roads. Citizens blocked the approach to the Danube Bridge in less than an hour. Our questions, Minister, are: are specific additional measures necessary to limit air pollution in Ruse? Were the citizens who submitted the alerts or representatives of non-governmental organisations invited and involved in the checks carried out by the control authorities? Is there a programme with precisely identified measures to limit the critically high levels of fine particulate matter established last year, and what are these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Milkov, Stoilov, Zarkov! In the city of Ruse there is constant monitoring of the quality of the air through automatic air measuring stations in the town of Renaissance, in the central part of the city, and mobile station located on Blvd. "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? The latter, equipped with additional analysts for organic pollutants in the ambient air, I am talking about benzene, toluene and xylene, was put into operation in 2015 on the occasion of numerous signals received from residents of Ruse. Data coming from automatic air quality control stations shall not exceed the levels of the main observed pollutants The trend in the registration of excess particulate matter is in decline. The total number in 2013 was 107 in 2017. '71 overshadowed. Further measures have been taken in connection with continuing signals to reduce unpleasant smells. The Ministry of Environment and Water has done what is necessary to install equipment for sample and detection of smells OdorPrep. It is located on the site of the automatic station in the district of Renaissance and is provided by an Italian company within the framework of a European project in the framework of Horizon 2020 Framework Programme. OdorPrep is used to objectively determine the concentration of intense smelling substances. Control samples for smells in the air were taken on 12 November 2018 by the districts of two potential sources. Samples are sent and will be subjected to chemical analysis in a specialized laboratory in the Netherlands. The results of the control samples will be used to compare with those to be taken in the presence of signals from citizens for unpleasant smells from the OdorPrep device. Given that the signals related to the presence of unpleasant smells are submitted by residents living in different areas of the city, very often outside working hours, during the evening and night hours, by RIEW Ruse, joint checks are organized with representatives of Ruse Municipality. The Inspectorate's experts shall provide feedback to the senders of signals through the timely preparation and publication of the website of the MOEW and of the RIEW of up-to-date information. In relation to the recorded excesses of fine particulate matter at present, Ruse Municipality shall implement an update of the Programme for reduction of pollution levels and reaching the established standards for their air content in the territory of Ruse Municipality for the period 2015 - 2020 in accordance with the requirements of art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. The Programme sets out short-term and long-term measures to reduce the concentration of fine particulate matter in the city's atmospheric air. In connection with the ongoing construction works of the street network in the town of Ruse, it is explicitly requested that additional measures be taken for the timely cleaning of contaminated streets and for the prevention of dust spread. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stoilov, you have the floor. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, here on this stand, you are calm, comprehensive, convincing, but you think why do people protest? Why are people out there wearing masks? Why do they call our region the Valley of Chemistry? Why do kids go to school in masks? Why can't the state really get into its function and build a stationary station in this valley that actually hunts because we're not talking about one or two businesses, there's a lot of them? Why don't you come to the spot and explain to these people what the real situation is and when can this problem be solved because it's really serious? I'm sure you'll respond stereotypically again and promise something, but I also hope that these promises will actually work out this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u134	Dear Mr. Stoilov, the industrialization of a city and of one region is a solution, partly and mainly of the local authorities... how to distribute and where to position its industrial zones. When we talk about promises, I've actually been more than three times in Ruse on various occasions, always associated with air quality. We have made efforts within a year to find the necessary equipment that can lensize the problem of smells, because at national level smells are not measured. They are not included in national law either. And here only during the viewing of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, you said that local authorities should not have responsibility and you protected the local authorities from being sanctioned, but here is a specific and typical example of how the local authorities should be more active because this is a regional and local problem. We've found the equipment, we're running a comparison with a Dutch lab right now so there's no doubt about it. The apparatus is Italian and the samples are sent there so there is no doubt in order to be as objective as possible and to escape all possibilities of non-execution. But once this works and shows good results, all the work of local authorities is to take care of local problems. That is also the meaning of the separation of authorities. So when I've made some commitments, I've ended these commitments. This is a concrete step taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. With this we ended the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. We move on to questions about Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. Question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on the implementation of the Programme Innovation and Competitiveness. Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Our question with colleague Tsonkov is related to the implementation of the Programme Innovation and Competitiveness. A little bit of history. At the beginning of September, a decision by the Council of Ministers transferred nearly 51 million. EUR from the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" at the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness". This represents nearly 20% of the funds provided for in the Programme and, notice, these are funds that were intended to be used for research, for science. The logical reading of this decision by the Council of Ministers contains at least two conclusions. The first is that the Ministry of Education and Science will step forward in terms of the use of the funds of the Programme, Science and education for smart growth, because purely accounting in terms of 100 million. lv. go to another ministry, that is, the Ministry of Education and Science becomes a leader in terms of the absorption of funds under the Programme. And the second is that the Ministry of Science and Education admits that it cannot manage these funds, but therefore the Ministry of Economy will be able to realise the intentions regarding the implementation of the Programme. Our question to you is connected purely expert, first: Is the Ministry of Economy ready to launch a reception with regard to these funds, to adopt project proposals in this direction? What will be the directions for support and the beneficiaries of the Programme, respectively? Do you think that these funds, with the short terms that remain until the end of the Programme, can be used precisely with the capacity available to the Ministry of Economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u137	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Dear Professor Bachvarova, thank you again for the question. The announcement of a procedure "Development of regional innovation centres" was planned for May 2019, according to the draft annual work programme for 2019 under the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" published for public consultation on September 28, 2018. In this connection, the managing authorities of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" jointly developed a concept for using funds from the Programme to the Ministry of Education for an OPIC procedure to support regional innovation centres, which was published on the website of both bodies on September 12, 2018. During its development, the concept was also agreed with the central coordination unit of the administration of the Council of Ministers. The procedure provides support for joint projects initiated by several enterprises with high innovative potential in cooperation with research organisations that will result in the creation of scientific research innovative capacity to support and develop the local economy. The main focus of the procedure is on the use of research and development potential of scientific organisations and somewhat assisted regional innovation centres for the creation of new products, services and processes. Investment in open and shared scientific applications and innovation infrastructure will be supported in order to strengthen cooperation, networking and knowledge transfer. Immediately after the publication of the concept began preparation of meetings with business, scientific circles, higher schools, regional administrations and citizens of the six planning areas in Bulgaria. Meetings were held in six cities from the country - Stara Zagora, Plovdiv, Blagoevgrad, Pleven and two days ago were in Ruse and Varna, one of each of the six planning areas. The focus was on identifying specific needs of business and science on the ground, as well as obtaining feedback, suggestions, recommendations, opinions such as for example for parameters of the procedure, eligible candidates and eligible activities, eligible costs, budget of the procedure, amount of grants and other proposals. In the period until mid-January next year, there is a generalisation and analysis of the results of the discussion, on the basis of which the managing authorities of both programmes will develop detailed conditions for applying and implementing the procedure. Currently it is envisaged to provide funding for one to three regional innovation centres in each of the planning areas, as beneficiaries will be associations registered under the Law on Legal Entities Non-profit. Members of the associations may be small, medium and large enterprises accredited Bulgarian universities, main units within the meaning of art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education to accredited Bulgarian Higher Schools, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and its Institutes and academic specialities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 60 of the Law on Administration, Scientific Organizations within the meaning of § 1, p. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Research Promotion Act, NGOs, clusters, municipal and regional administrations. The main areas of support are intended to be in the field of innovation strategy for intelligent specialization in relation to the specialization of the area concerned, as eligible for funding are activities for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets, fixed intangible assets, transfers and broad promotion of knowledge and research results by applying the principle of open access to scientific information, carrying out studies and analyses, limited construction and installation works only for ongoing repairs for the needs of scientific infrastructure, supporting the creation of the capacity of research and development teams, stimulating, internationalisation and marketing of associations. The deadline for submission of projects in August 2019 will allow for the start of implementation of the Programme in December 2019. "January 2020." At the maximum possible deadlines for implementation 24 months, I believe that there is no risk of default of funds until the end of this programming period, namely 31 December 2023. Professor Bachvarova, allow me to say something that is not written in the reference prepared by the experts. We had several meetings at Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, Minister of Education and my mercy. We had several meetings at the level of the two ministers with the experts and a number of meetings with the experts. My personal opinion is that this program will be a challenge. The most important thing for her would really be to create the environment to have a real dialogue between business and science. You're a professor, you come from science and you know that sometimes this dialogue doesn't go well. With regard to the implementation of the funds, we will do our best and I am sure that we will manage. But what I think and deeply feel about myself is that the absorption of these funds is not the most important thing. We need to look for efficiency, we need to look for the effect so that business can recognise science, invest in science, and it will give solutions to manufacturing, to goods, to services with high added value in order to improve the economy at local level. From this point of view, it is most important for me to make the Programme so that when it ends successfully, it stays in business and in the scientific circles the opportunity for them to continue to work on the business to invest in science and it gives solutions. From this point of view in the Ministry of Economy we are starting a campaign, and it starts this month at 24, 25 and 26 November we will be in Svishtov, then in Targovishte, and so I think we will tour the cities in Bulgaria. In the campaign the Ministry of Economy will represent the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and the small and medium-sized enterprises, the Bulgarian Development Bank, the Export Insurance Agency and the Bulgarian Investment Agency and we will present all of this. But it's really important to me that we create the environment and show business and science that they're interconnected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u139	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, with much of your findings, especially in the conclusion, I agree. The fact that the Programme is a challenge is a fact because for the first time we had allocated funds for the development of Bulgarian science, but a number of adverse events, mostly related to the management of the funds, the preparation of the Programme, the Managing Authority of the Ministry of Education, came to a situation where the effectiveness of the funds spent was questioned. For me it is extremely important for these funds to be a priority and leading science, and for business to really be the one to be interested in what directions Bulgarian science is developing, what its potential is and can it be useful for the development of the economy and the development of the regions. However, working together with the Ministry of Education and Science, you still have the main burden related not only to whether you have the capacity to evaluate one or another project and the extent to which it is prospective, but also requires huge expertise, and scientific potential that can sift out these opportunities for research development and these innovation centres that are important for the development of the region. Agree that if you make now an investment related to the transfer of knowledge, it is best that this transfer of knowledge continue in the future. You are very optimistic about the fact that business, based on these centres, will start investing in science. In Bulgaria the model and financing of Bulgarian science are made so that in practice the business waits ready to receive one or another innovative solution, but not to be the active participant in their development. And one specific question that worries me personally. In these associations you explain how they will be beneficiaries of the Programme, bearing in mind that 99% of science is done in state universities, in BAS, in the Agricultural Academy and they have very serious and different mechanisms of funding and accountability in relation to the funds that come into them, some such associations will have the opportunity to be correct about the implementation of the projects. I note that there are really relatively large restrictions compared to business, which is much more free in decision making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u141	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u142	Dear Professor Bachvarova, unfortunately, I am not optimistic. So I mentioned, you know very well how business and science work. Unfortunately, there's a broken relationship. In this regard, we rely heavily on the Ministry of Education and Science, as science and education are there. There is already what I said not only a meeting, but also experts who will work only on this project to make it happen. What you said is exactly right. I mentioned that these are the beneficiaries at the moment. We are currently analyzing what all interested parties have proposed and really making such a mechanism to reach science. They have to be the lead. But, look, business has to give, let me call it my job, what they need in production, in services, so science can develop it to see if it can and develop it. I believe in Bulgarian scientists in general. I remembered, the absorption of funds is the smallest part. Yeah, we'll probably see the use of funds. They'll probably be big. We are looking for an effect and this should be in every operational programme. The effect, I mean, really the effect! Because, to go for example, the Innovation and Competitiveness Programme, and for many of the innovations, it is even difficult to understand what they are. But we are looking for an effect, and the effect will be productions, services and goods for high added value. Indeed, both with your help, and with local authorities, and with regional governors, and with science, with business, with the Ministry of Education and Science, we need to make sure that after this project, after its completion, business finds and sees the solution that it can be in science. That's why I said it before. That is, we need to create the model that business and science have started to work just as, unfortunately, in the last 20 years or more, it hasn't happened. But there are separate cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-16.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. This was also the last question of today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 21 November 2018 at 9:00. We're adjourned.
