ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u1	Good afternoon to all your colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, the first point for today is: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND ADDUCTION OF THE ENERGY STRATEGY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BY 2020 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2018. The Energy Commission report will introduce us to Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, please, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber the following persons: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy, and Mrs. Miroslava Hristova, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u3	Please vote on the admission of those persons. Vote 176 MPs: 170, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe of the Energy Committee on the Draft Decision on the adoption of an amendment and supplement to the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020, No 802-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2018. At its extraordinary meeting held on 27 November 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a draft decision adopting an amendment and supplement to the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020, No 802 03 13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Mr. Krasimir Parvanov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Miroslava Hristova Director of the Department of Legal and Normal Activities, Administrative Service and Human Resources.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The reasons for the need to amend the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 were presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, who pointed out that after 1 January 2020, significant changes are expected in the gas supply routes across the territory of Bulgaria from the North-South of South-North, as well as a possible risk of significant reduction of the quantities transited across the country and hence the revenues from them. This is conditioned by the following two facts: the upcoming construction of key projects in the region, which will change the main direction and routes of the flows of the city of Alexandroupolis (Greece), the East Med gas pipeline (with sources of gas from the Mediterranean), as well as the position of the OOO "Gsulfrom export" according to which, after 1 January 2020, the latter have no interest in using the current infrastructure providing input capacity from Romania and exit capacity to Turkey. Currently, the main part of the revenues of Bulgartransgaz is from the transit carried out, based on a long-term contract for cross-border transport with input capacity of 17.8 billion m3/d and entry point from Romania and exit points to Turkey (capacitance 14.0 billion m3/d), Greece (capacity 3.0 billionm3/d) and the Republic of Macedonia (capacity 0.8 billionm3/d). The concept of building a gas distribution centre on the territory of Bulgaria is based on the idea in the region of Varna to come from different sources significant amounts of natural gas for further transportation, while at the same time a space for gas trading (hub) is organized at this point where any market participant could carry out transactions with natural gas on a market basis. In the context of the European objectives of building a interconnected and single pan-European gas market, the implementation of the gas hub concept is in line with the Southern Gas Corridor development projects and in full compliance with the gas infrastructure development plans in Europe, in order to improve the security of supply and diversification of natural gas supply sources. The gas hub project is supported by the political and financial support of the European Commission and the financial support has also found a real expression in the EC's grant co-financing of the project pre-project research for the project gas hub. As a result of the mid-term survey report on 12 June 2018 in the European Commission building in Brussels, the interim results were presented, including the preferred option for a route supported by the experts, and the planned new infrastructure within the first phase of the chosen route is a complete match with the planned new infrastructure for realization within the project "Extending the infrastructure from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border." In this regard, the project "Extendment of the infrastructure from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border" is a necessary and integral part of the concept of gas hub Balkan regarding the infrastructure for construction. Russian natural gas, local extraction from Bulgaria and Romania, natural gas from the Southern Gas Corridor (TAP and TANAP) are considered as main sources for powering the hub. Existing and building liquefied natural gas terminals in Greece and Turkey could provide quantities of natural gas from the US, Qatar, Algeria, Egypt and others. As a combined operator carrying out the transportation and storage operations, Bulgartransgaz is operating and developing the infrastructure in the country. In this regard, and in order to assess the market interest of further development of existing infrastructure to all neighbouring market areas, including with third parties, the EAD launches a process for assessing demand and allocation of added capacity, Open Season. A demand assessment and allocation procedure for added capacity. Open Season consists of three phases, two of which are non-binding. Phase 3 of the procedure is planned for the period 3 December As a result of the non-engaging phases of the procedure, the pre-project surveys and discussions with the shareholders of the project companies, which are expected to build neighbouring gas infrastructure (PAO "Gazprom", BOTAS, Srbijagas, Gastrans) are identified and identified the need to implement a new project for added capacity. In view of the current situation and macro environment related to the cross-border transmission activities of natural gas, the realization of the expansion of the transmission infrastructure in Bulgaria as a result of the requests in the Open Season procedure and the pre-project studies carried out, as well as the expressed position of the OOO (Gazprom export) concerning the change of flows after 1 January 2020, it is necessary to amend and supplement the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to enable the operational implementation of the activities to lead to the construction of the necessary infrastructure by the end of 2019. The provision of infrastructure by 1 January 2020 will preserve Bulgaria's role on the map of Europe as a main transit country, not only as a gas-producing country, will ensure security of supply to the country and the region and will provide serious financial revenues from cross-border transport activities. It is of key importance for the construction of the project for extension of the transmission infrastructure in the section from the Turkish-Bulgarian border to the Bulgarian-Serb border, which is part of the concept of gas hub, supported by the Bulgarian government and the EC, of the Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Serbian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Serbian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Serbian-Serbian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian border-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian border-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bann-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bann-Bulgarian-Bann-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Sann-San-EU gas-San-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-EU gas-nation-EU gas-nation-nation-based concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept concept as a concept concept concept concept concept concept concept as a concept of gas hub-based concept concept concept concept concept concept as a concept concept concept concept of gas-based concept concept of gas hub-based concept of gas-based in-based in a place of gas hub gas hub gas hub-based concept concept in a place of gas hub-based concept in a place of gas hub-based in a place of gas-by-by-based in a place of gas hub-by-by-by-by-based concept in a place-by-by-by-by-by-by-by-by-by-by- In this respect, it is necessary to establish at least one licensed gas exchange in the country where physical and financial transactions in natural gas are to take place. In addition, a gas exchange with a segment for organised bilateral trade will ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of Commission Regulation (EU) No 312/2014 of 26 March 2014 establishing a network code for balancing transmission networks (OJ C 91/15 of 27 March 2014).), an obligation to be fulfilled by 15 April 2019. The Bulgarian participation in the project for the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal near Alexandroupolis is strategically important for diversification and security of energy supply. The project will provide new amounts of gas to supply Greek and regional markets in Southeast Europe, while contributing to increasing gas and route supply sources, promoting competition for end customers, security of supply in Greece and Balkan countries, as well as improving the reliability and flexibility of the National Gas Network, as well as regional and trans-European networks. The key expected source of gas through this terminal is originating in the USA, Qatar and other large producers of liquefied natural gas, which will lead to additional sources of natural gas for a gas hub. According to which in the context of the development of the Turkish Stream project, a restructuring of the existing contract is necessary, since it is possible to pay twice for the use of the infrastructure that is currently built, but will be used in the transport of natural gas through the new pipelines. A position is expressed on the part of the GPE for dropping the obligation to pay these sections and they are removed from the current transit contract and for releasing the reserved capacity, the value of which is the main part of the revenue under the current contract. The position expressed includes the claim that if the OOO (Gazprom export) continues to pay the costs of the existing long-term contract in full, their participation in the engaging phase of the Open Season procedure in relation to the points of Turkey/Bulgaria and Bulgaria/Serbia borders can be assessed as economically inappropriate. In the context of the new external environment and the existing contractual relationships are analyzed the prospects for the development of the transmission system of the Republic of Bulgaria and the cross-border transmission in terms of expected future revenues and costs for the operator of the system. A financial analysis of three options for action has been carried out as follows: - Option 1 - Realization of the project to expand the infrastructure between Turkey and Serbia, termination of the existing contract and offering the released capacities of RBP natural gas traders and their booking under the conditions of regulated price; - Option 2 - Continuation of the current contract until 2030. (including continuing payment of capacity fees to Turkey of 14,0 billion m3/d) but without actual carry-over; - Option 3 - Realization of the project for the extension of the infrastructure between Turkey and Serbia and restructuring of the existing contract through the release of OOO "Gazprom export of capacity in the Negru region of water" Malclar. After reviewing the analysed options from a strategic point of view, the following advantages of Option 3: - Save Bulgaria's role on the gas map of Europe for the longest period (at least until 2040.) - Maintaining Bulgaria's role as a major country providing input and trade of natural gas as well as cross-border transport for the region and the EU at least until 2040; - Secure the security of natural gas supplies, not only for Bulgaria, but also for Europe and the region for a longer period; - Development of the natural gas market in Bulgaria and the region; - Provide an appropriate market environment for organised natural gas trading on a market basis, including after capacity release resulting from the restructuring of the long-term contract in force; - Creating a liquid, competitive market for natural gas as a free trade place and entering into transactions in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner, including after the release of capacities resulting from the restructuring of the long-term contract in force; - Provide the possibility of short-term trade in significant volumes of gas entering into transactions in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner to reach a high level of liquidity on the natural gas market, including after the release of capacities resulting from the restructuring of the long-term contract in force; - Dversification of natural gas supplies by providing additional routes and sources of supply; - Creating conditions for the promotion of competition in favour of final customers, including after the release of capacities resulting from the restructuring of the long-term contract in force. From a strategic point of view, as well as from a financial point of view, the implementation of the project for the extension of the transmission system in the section from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serb border and the continuation of the existing contract, with the proposed amendment under Option 3, not only respond more fully to the current geopolitical conjuncture, but will also provide an opportunity for the Bulgarian-Serbian border to retain its key role in the regional gas market in the long term, will contribute to the development of its activities and will ensure the income from cross-border transmission of natural gas through Bulgaria and after 2030. (Minimum until 2040) for the benefit of both the company and the state and the society. After the presentation of the initiated amendments and additions to the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, the people representative Valentin Nikolov made two proposals for amendments to the texts so proposed. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov: The following additions shall be made in Section VII: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end of the sentence is added.. including an open tender procedure for the delivery of the necessary materials and equipment, investment design-phase work project, construction and putting into service with an estimated value of BGN 2 286 000 000. without VAT and the second sentence is created: the contract execution request with the above-mentioned name to enter into force under the following conditions: a final investment decision for the implementation of the project as a result of the reserved capacity providing the necessary profitability of the project [[(successful economic test within the engaging phase of the Open Season procedure and the corresponding conclusion of a binding capacity reserve contract (s))]] .... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the long-term contract is added after the words.... for transport No 643/00157629/210215 of 27 April 1998, on the basis of a signed supplementary agreement......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the discussion was concluded, Mr. Delyan Dobrev, Chairman of the Energy Commission, put to separate votes the proposed amendments. The results of the votes for both amendments are 9 votes for the vote, without the vote against the vote and 8 votes for the vote abstention. On the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 11 votes for the Energy Committee, with no objection to the Council and 6 votes for the Executive Board, is proposing that the National Assembly adopt the following Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020: Project! DECISION amending and supplementing the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 (DV, No. 43 of 2011) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts amendments and additions to the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. (DV, No. 43 of 2011) as follows: 1. In the introductory part of the Strategy, a review of 2020 will be made after the sentence: Bulgaria must position itself firmly on the regional energy map and realize the opportunities for the export of electricity to the countries of the region, including Turkey, Greece, Italy and others. The following sentences will be created: "To develop a competitive natural gas market, in the context of the European objectives for the construction of a interconnected and single gas market, actions will be taken to implement a concept for the construction of a gas distribution centre (hub) in Bulgaria, which is in line with the projects for the development of the Southern Gas Corridor and in full compliance with the plans for the development of gas infrastructure in Europe, in the direction of improving the security of supply and diversification of sources and routes of supply of natural gas. In addition to the expansion of existing gas infrastructure, in order to ensure the necessary market environment for the implementation of a gas hub in the country, a liquid and functioning gas exchange will be established. 2. A new Section VII is hereby established: "VІІ." Security of supply, provision of a liquid and competitive market for natural gas and development of transmission infrastructure The concept of building a gas distribution centre (hub) in Bulgaria is based on the idea that significant quantities of natural gas from different sources should enter the transmission system from different sources in order to trade them on the hub, as well as for further transportation, while at the same time a market place for gas trading (gas exchange) is being organised at this point, where each market participant could carry out transactions with natural gas on a market basis. This concept will be implemented by implementing a project to build a gas hub, which is in line with the needs of the region identified by the High Level Gas Connectivity Group of Central and South East Europe (CESEC), as well as by the European Energy Union Strategy. The establishment of a gas hub aims by building the necessary gas infrastructure to connect the natural gas markets of the member states in the region.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The realization of the concept will contribute to achieving the following strategic objectives: - Save Bulgaria's role on the gas map of Europe; - Maintaining Bulgaria's role as a major country providing input and trade in natural gas as well as cross-border transport to the region and the European Union; - Secure the security of natural gas supplies, not only for Bulgaria, but also for Europe and the region; - Development of the natural gas market in Bulgaria and the region; - Provide an appropriate market environment for organised natural gas trading on a market basis; - Creating a liquid, competitive market for natural gas, such as a free trade place and entering into transactions in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner; - Providing the possibility of short-term trade in significant volumes of gas, entering into transactions in a transparent and non-discriminatory way to reach a high level of liquidity in the natural gas market; - Dversification of natural gas supplies by providing additional routes and sources of supply; - Creating conditions to promote competition for the benefit of final customers; - Getting long-term economic benefits from the development of the market and competitive trade in natural gas. In order to achieve the identified strategic objectives for the development of a competitive natural gas market in Bulgaria, as well as to ensure the security of supply to the country and the region and to ensure long-term economic benefits, the following main activities will be undertaken in response to the expressed needs and plans for the development of the participants in the regional gas market by the Bulgarian gas forwarder. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Bulgartransgaz" EAD to take all necessary actions, subject to the applicable Bulgarian and Community legislation, for the implementation of the project for the extension of the infrastructure of the Bulgarian-Turkish border from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border, including from the Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Turkish-Turkish-Turkish-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Turkish-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Turkish-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Turkish-Bulgarian-Turkish-Turkish-Turkish-Bulgarian-Turkish-Turkish-Turkish-Turkish-Bulgarianite-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarianite-Bulgarianite-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian-Bulgarian without VAT. The contract for the execution of the contract with the designation quoted above shall enter into force in the following conditions: a final investment decision for the implementation of the project as a result of reserved capacity providing the necessary profitability of the project [[(successful economic test within the engaging phase of the Open Season procedure and the corresponding conclusion of a binding capacity reserve contract (s))]] . 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Bulgartrangsaz" EAD to take all necessary steps to create a gas exchange to ensure an appropriate market environment for the implementation of a gas hub by establishing a subsidiary. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Bulgartransgaz" EAD to take the necessary action to initiate a procedure for acquiring shareholder participation in the construction of the new liquefied natural gas terminal (NG terminal) in Alexandroupolis, Greece. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the basis of a signed additional agreement with OOO, Gazprom is to undertake the necessary actions to restructure the long-term transmission contract in force No 643/00157629/210215 of 27 April 1998, on the basis of a signed additional agreement with OOO.Gsprom export, in accordance with which OO.Gsprom is to release the reserved capacity from entry point Negru water to exit point Malklar, respectively, to be exempted from the obligation to pay the agreed tariff for this section from putting into service the project for additional capacity at the border Bulgaria/Turkey and Bulgaria/Serbia, only in case this additional capacity is long-term reserved (15/20) in the framework of a transparent procedure and paid by the OOO, when a new long-term transfer contract is concluded. 5. "Bulgartransgaz" EAD to take all necessary actions in compliance with the applicable Bulgarian and Community legislation to provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of a project for an extension of the infrastructure of the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serb border, for the creation of liquid and functioning gas exchange and for the provision of shareholder participation of the Bulgarian-Turkish gas terminal in Alexandroupolis, Greece. 3. The current Section VII becomes Section VIII. "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ermenkov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We already have established and adopted by everyone, I hope, rules. Minister Petkova will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To brighten the atmosphere a little on Friday morning, to say that you are clearly giving us the opportunity as the most national responsible party to start a dispute on such an important project. Thank you. What I want to say to you as a first sentence so that you do not worry and wait for the culmination of my speech is that we, as a parliamentary group, as people who have always defended the interests of Bulgaria [[noise and lines]] , as nationally responsible politicians, as people who, from the very beginning of this term, have stated that we will support any decision in favour of national security... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, could you ask...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u7	Please all to the left, and to the right, keep quiet...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u8	We're solving important problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u9	...not only because Mr. Ermenkov is interesting as a speaker, but also because he says important things. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u10	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I can see they can't hear you much. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u11	Time's running out. Wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u12	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u13	Proceed, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u14	Thanks for the quiet. As a nationally responsible party, we have stated from the very beginning that we will support any decisions by the government that are related to ensuring national security, and today we are discussing a problem related to this national security in its part of energy security, and rather security of gas supplies. We will support these changes in the Strategy. We will support them with the clear awareness that we are in a situation where the passenger, who has been in the waiting room at the station for a long time, waiting for the train to pass through it. Suddenly the train didn't pass by, he had to chase him and took the last train, the last train, the last door. We will support it with the clear awareness that under the so-called circumstances we have no choice if we want to remain a country with a key role in the gas distribution functions in Europe, such as an entry point of gas for Europe. You know very well that the other alternative is if we don't agree with this thing, if we don't accept these changes, if we don't take action on the continuation of the second tube, the so-called Turkish stream will pass through Bulgaria, from a gas distribution node in Europe we will become a gas appendicite with our minimum internal gas consumption. I highly appreciate what Minister Petkova said during the discussions in the Energy Committee that we have always found common solutions in the field of energy when it comes to important problems. I will not go back to the past when the rulers were now opposition and then this unity was somehow gone, but I hope that in the future, when they become opposition, they will follow our example. It is really about important problems and we cannot politicalise, we cannot do exercises on the back of Bulgaria, including run to Brussels, and try to make obstructions of the government, because only and only we need to show some opposition. We will support the Energy Strategy Change Project and with the clear awareness that it is much more consistent with a decision of the Council of Ministers than with a change in strategy, but it is clear to us that this is happening for two reasons. The first reason is an attempt to transfer responsibility from the Council of Ministers on the back of parliament, as is usually in our parliament. And tomorrow, if, by no means, questions are asked: Why did you make this decision?....... the Council of Ministers will say: "The Parliament has asked us this.................................................................. The second issue, which is more important and I think more worrying, and we should learn from it that this is not happening in the future, is that to such a extent we have lost trust in the international partners as an executive, and Parliament is required as the highest degree of government in Bulgaria to guarantee decisions that could be taken by the executive. I say again: we will support these amendments and we will do everything we can to make what is written in them happen. Of course, we will follow very closely the way things are being realized. We will not allow waste of public resources, we will not allow delays in processes. I would like to add and ask if, after my speech, Minister Petkova takes an attitude, he can answer me why, when we are talking about hub, when we talk about gas distribution things, we have not included in these amendments and the construction of a second gas storage facility? something that we have repeated several times during the discussion of the National Security Report and the Commission when we spoke on the topic of gas transit. Madam Minister, I will continue to ask this question, because you and everyone who is involved in energy are aware that hub Balkan is not going to happen without a second gas storage facility. Now is the time to include it in these changes as an obligation, otherwise the impression is created that we only react to the current situation. It is essential that we do so at the moment and still take some preliminary steps so that these projects can be implemented. Finally, I repeat again, perhaps this is the fourth time I have said this, we will support the Strategy Change Project and I hope that what happened in the years with the gas transit project through Bulgaria, starting with the South Stream and I do not know what other variations, to be our earring, so that the next time we make decisions, they will be the optimal solutions for Bulgaria with the maximum profit for it and not saving the situation, as is the case with what is now being offered to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to stress that, if memory serves me correctly, in 2015 it was announced that Bulgaria's desire was to build a gas hub by becoming a Regional Centre in Southeast Europe, to use the built and renewed infrastructure in Bulgaria. That caused a lot of smiles. There were a lot of critics, and there was, like, a very skeptical attitude to this idea. Here I would like to pay tribute to Mr. Georgi Gogov, who was one of the initiators, God rest his soul, to this idea. Convinced the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister announced it not only in Bulgaria, a working group was established, announced by Mr. Borhardt, Mr. Kanete and Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Of course, Minister Petkova has taken it all in, put energy into it and we see that this is already set for a change of the Strategy by 2020. The feasibility studies have shown that a gas hub, Balkan, could not exist without Russian gas because it could not provide sufficient liquidity. This has also given us reasons to look for options in what way to secure this Russian gas, provided that the Russians have stated firmly and definitively that they will build a Russian stream on the bottom of the Black Sea and will feed Turkey and subsequently, with a second tube, will seek an option to secure Europe. A feasibility study with European funds was commissioned. It showed the commercial principles. Two rounds of commercial research have already been done, the third to be binding. All this shows the market principle, and even, I would say, the sustainability of the so-called gas hub, and the transit to Europe, using our infrastructure and building, of course, a new one, because ours cannot absorb these quantities as a direction. I think what is happening today is very indicative and we will do very right by putting this into the Energy Strategy, because it was indeed made in 2010, but then in no way suggested geopolitical, geostrategic situations, new ones that already exist in our region, as well as in the world. This shows that we are already up-to-date on the subject and it will be shown on the market in all cases when we are looking for and attracting funds to build the new structure towards Serbia, because I am sure that there will be many willing to give funds to the Bulgarian authorities for the construction of this infrastructure, because it is seen that there will be a great return precisely on the basis of the fees that will be formed in the transit of gas to Europe. I think we found a model not to violate European legislation in the spirit of the third liberalization package, to do everything possible not to surround Bulgaria, but to pass through Bulgaria. Thank God, that intention was heard in Europe. Russian partners believed us this time and Russian gas will pass through Bulgaria. Thank God we're not just counting on one source. Since the 2009 crisis with the stop of gas in Ukraine, we have built an interconnector link with Romania, made a tube to Turkey, a reversible link with Greece and at the moment, you know, there is a procedure for both Greece and the project for connectivity with Serbia continues. Thank God, and in the strategy, we have to have other sources. This is not only the Azerbaijani gas that passes south of us, but also the minority participation in the LNG terminal in Alexandroupolis, which will enable additional sources such as the US, Qatar and many others to be able to deliver their gas to Europe. We see that the fields are already running out in Holland, i.e. from the northern direction, I'm sure there will be less and less gas coming. I think Bulgaria can become very interesting and very important for transiting gas from the southern direction to Europe. We can see that fields were found between Cyprus and Israel. This gas, of course, must naturally go to Europe, because the largest consumer is the European countries. The natural direction of this gas is through Bulgaria. An agreement has already been signed between Italy, Greece, Israel and Cyprus in this regard. By putting each lev into the gas infrastructure, is every lev invested in the future for security... both energy and national. Of course, I welcome this amendment to the Strategy, although it will be two years until we accept the whole new one, but it shows our commitment and efforts that we are putting into our future. So this, I would say, is very good and positive news from the news series that does not always reflect, I would say, and the media see that this is important. I hope that we will unanimously support this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? I can't see. The next statement was stated by Mr. Stoinev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! BSP has insisted on specific investments in the field of energy and during all these years we have stated our concern that, unfortunately, large infrastructure projects are not implemented....................... are large or small infrastructure projects, because we remain as a country isolated in the region. As soon as the idea of a gas hub came to light, we stated that we would support this project and expressed our concerns that without the presence of Russian gas, this project would be difficult to implement despite our efforts in the Black Sea, but anyway, in order to be effective the gas hub, without Russian gas, it could hardly be realized. We cannot fail to support a proposal that will allow us to have access to Russian gas again, and indeed this way our country will not be surrounded, which is a step in the right direction. However, our energy problems, rather the challenges we have, will hardly be erased by this parliament's solution. You know, yesterday there were protests and trade unions are excited about the price of carbon emissions, something that is really scandalous, colleagues, which threatens the future of coal production, because if a year ago the price was 5 euros per tonne, now it is approximately 25 euros. Of course, one might say that these are almost market mechanisms. No, these are not market mechanisms, because what the European Commission has done is something outrageous to withdraw emissions to increase this price without thinking about the effect in other Member States. I very much hope that we can really be united here and have a common position to defend the Bulgarian national interest, because only so can we meet the expectations not only of voters but also of future generations, because investment in energy is really long-term. Of course, we can't help but be concerned with the government's action to build the interconnector link with Greece, something extremely important, because we on the left will continue to insist on building this link as soon as possible. We should not stop only with the branch of Turkish Stream, but we believe that the interconnector link is a priority for Bulgaria and I will ask Minister Petkova to take part in this issue. I am glad that finally after all these years, perhaps since 2005, the idea of having a minority stake in the NG terminal will see the light of day soon, because, colleagues, from the distant 2005 "2006" talk about possible Bulgarian participation. Just to explain to colleagues who wonder why in Greece and not in Bulgaria. We on the Black Sea cannot do, it is impossible because of Turkey's decision not to allow ships to carry liquefied gas through Bosporus. I believe that when there is a common effort, things can happen and I call for us to be united in the future, because really important decisions are to be made by Brussels on specific criminal procedures. We need to be calm, we need to be united and we need to protect the Bulgarian national interest, because only in this way can we succeed and not be divided with our foreign partners. Over the years, a lot of mistakes have been made, but it is extremely important that the foreign partners have confidence in the Bulgarian institutions, in the Bulgarian state and this can only be achieved if we have concrete and uniform solutions. Madam Minister, my request is to give more clarity not only about the possible branch of Turkish Stream, but also about the interconnector link with Greece and the LNG terminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing a very important issue concerning the national interests and preservation of Bulgaria on the gas map in Europe. There are some things written in the strategy and we all talk about them. I can quote: in the Strategy we are talking about preserving Bulgaria's role as a major country providing input and trade of natural gas and transport to the European Union and to the region. All of us and you, Madam Minister, talk often that Bulgaria should retain the strategic position of the gas map of Europe. It seems to me that it is good before we proceed to a vote on the update of the Strategy, to remember a few things. From this talk about how Bulgaria retains its strategic place on the gas map of Europe, so far everything that has been built, Madam Minister, has surrounded us. Everything that's built like a gas infrastructure has surrounded us! We talked so that Bulgaria cannot be surrounded by gas supplies for Turkey. You know that it is the largest consumer in the region, the most growing gas user The way they couldn't get around us, that's how we built the Syn Stream. Then here, in this hall and outside, they explained how uninterested "South Stream" is. We explained how there is no other alternative to South Stream and how Bulgaria will strategically realize its geographical position. The other day, the Turkish stream came out on Turkish territory. We also talked a lot about another project, which was going through Bulgaria again, we would still diversify the routes. Literally a few days ago, Trans-Anatolski and Trans-Adriatic contacted and this route passed south of Bulgaria. So of the three large gas infrastructure projects around our territory at the moment, talking about Bulgaria's national interest, speaking about Bulgaria's strategic location, we are currently zero. They've all surrounded us. That is why it is so important to have this conversation here and to see how and in what way of all these words we are doing, we are able to realise to protect the national interest. Madam Minister, I had the opportunity, and I said a few words to you in the Commission, and I will repeat them here in the Chamber. What worries me is that the realization of the so-called gas hub "Balkan" and this place in Bulgaria can only happen if we have these gas connections. There is also a lot of talk, but the facts are as follows. Currently this interconnector with Greece, which is important because it is a different delivery route and it is important that Bulgaria has it because you have a contract for the delivery of Azeri gas and you know that there is no other place for its transportation to Bulgaria. At the moment, we continue to be in the selection phase of a contractor of a pipe supplier, of supervision and of a builder, but we are nowhere with this choice, we are on short list. This should go into operation literally after years. The Serbian connection is about to begin... You have now signed a memorandum that is for 2022, but every minister before you goes, signs some agreements, but so far you know there is nothing realized. With Romania, the connection is realized under the Danube, but it is not even reversible, on the other side there is no compressor station and essentially it does not do the work we are up against. It makes sense for me to have this discussion if it is only supported by very active actions by the executive to realize this potential and opportunity that Bulgaria has. You know, and colleagues have confirmed it, BSP has always supported the implementation of major infrastructure projects in energy, including gas projects. We've always been against wasting our chances and opportunities, and we're opposed to that. You have now chosen a non-traditional technique with a change in the Strategy to give a mandate to the government essentially and the gas companies to do their job. If this is what you need, we will do it well, even though it does not belong in the Strategy and you know it well. As an expression of national consensus and support for the protection of national interests, we will also do so at the moment. The great responsibility lies with the government and the management of the gas companies at the moment this potential not to be wasted once again. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're talking business here. This is about income and expenses. I will not support such a Strategy until I am convinced that Bulgaria will benefit from its implementation. Enough years, perhaps decades, have been listening to Bulgaria's useful energy projects, which ultimately prove useful to another country and to the people who distribute them to the public and to the media, presenting them as extremely useful actions of the Bulgarian state. That's how it was with that insane project, Burgas, Alexandroupolis. Thank God it's not real. This was the case with the South Stream, from which we had to wait 22 years to get a left-hand transit fee and the price at which it grew four times while public opinion was still being processed. The situation with the NPP was no different in the version proposed by the group around the then president. We are still paying the old bills of some projects that have not been useful to Bulgaria in terms of not being linked to revenues for Bulgaria. In this regard, although colleagues on the left say that there should be no political talk, they continue to argue that the passage of a pipeline through Bulgaria was exclusively of the interests of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian people. No, in its interest, it will only be in our interest if such a pipeline brings revenue to Bulgaria, and it is not the only way for the future prosperity of the state. Absolutely not. I want to be convinced to prove that the passage of this pipeline through Bulgaria will benefit, first. Secondly, I would like to be convinced that someone will prove to me that this pipeline, which must be built by the Bulgarian State of value, has one figure now, it is not given in the Strategy about two billion, let us say, when it is built, it will benefit the country in terms of gas quantities that will pass to Western Europe. I want to be convinced because these two billion will probably be withdrawn as a loan and then they will have to be returned. What if there's no filling? If, for some other reasons,.. purely political, Russia stops the gas supply, as it will with Ukraine, what happens? Two billion more will be tight on the Bulgarian taxpayer, as these three billion so far for NPP "Belene" as the money that has also been spent has no meaning for South Stream and so on. I don't want to talk politically here. We need to speak from the point of view of the revenues, of the commercial account of Bulgaria since the delivery of this pipeline. Somehow, with ease, we accept a strategy with which we assign the construction of new gas connections, gas connections are needed for a new pipeline, some gas hub, which, however, does not have a storage facility. In other words, we here in Parliament will adopt decisions that will oblige the government to carry out actions that are uncertain whether Bulgaria will benefit. To build a gas-distributing center called the hub without storage means to buy a car without a tank, that is! Instead of continuing to irradiate public opinion with mantras, with stencils that at all costs, because we are in a geostrategic place, everything passes through us without proving that it benefits. I think this is irresponsible behavior. I didn't hear any gas coming through Switzerland or Monaco.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u23	It's very steep out there. Do you know what kind of bairs there are?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u24	Yeah, it's steep and the rocks are hard. Yes, you're right, Mr. Zablyanov. Enough with these templates, it's our responsibility, we'll vote, we'll assign the government, we'll have to be responsible for our behavior, for our voices after years, if, God forbid, this whole Strategy blows up like a balloon. Therefore, let us be responsible to discuss these issues, not with some common statements that if a gas pipeline passes through Bulgaria, it will become a paradise garden. I think it is much more promising, and that I would partly support in the Strategy.. the construction of theNG terminal in Alexandroupolis in view of the large quantities in the equatorial waters of Israel, Cyprus, it is controversial there is also Turkey, because there are indeed large quantities that can be used, and because there is some diversification, some distribution of supplies. The construction of a gas pipeline even if it comes from Turkey, through which only Russian gas will flow, no other gas will come there, is it clear to you? There's no way he's coming. Turkey's out of gas. I am skeptical about whether the European Commission will not see here a breach of the Third Energy Package, too, because there will be only one supplier. Once again: I would support in this direction the Strategy in terms of the construction of theNG terminal in Alexandroupolis and also the acceleration, if you would like, I would use a non-commercial term of pressing the companies that are engaged in research on possible extraction of gas and oil from Bulgarian territorial waters from the Black Sea. This should also be insisted on being implemented as soon as possible. These are the prospects for me because from such a hasty decision by the National Assembly, of course it follows the construction of an expensive transmission network, but no one can guarantee that the transmission of gas itself will bring revenue to Bulgaria. Bulgaria's gas needs are not that great. Somewhere around 6 - 7% is moving to cover Bulgaria's energy needs for gas. That's it! Let us be accountable in our speeches, and yet let us not forget that people are building up their opinions on this subject that is foreign to them and our statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you know in a way what I'm going to say, we've been talking for a long time. I congratulate the BSP on the position this morning because the Commission was a little confused whether to protect the interest of BSP or Bulgaria. I saw at the moment that when you were placed to make one such decision, in which to protect the party's interest, it was much worse than defending energy in Bulgaria. In the same position you have left us, of course, so I will now try with a few words to argue from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the first question why it is pointless to consider an amendment and an addition to the Strategy. Not that such a decision that you propose is not necessary, but we believe that it does not belong in the Strategy. It doesn't belong in it, because an addition and amendment of the Strategy for an investment project somehow sounds like a transfer of responsibility from the Council of Ministers to parliament, so if this investment project doesn't happen, the responsibility to bear that commission that we had created at the time, right, set up a committee and collective responsibility is irresponsible, that's what it sounds like. And energy today, after many years of your management, after a stabilization process that we have achieved together with the National Assembly, for one year now, I have signaled you that the state of energy is deteriorating and we have already reached the critical point, but wherever we stop the loss, it is always a peak. If we make a decision today that will be in the interests of energy, there is no way for us at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to not welcome it. I can even think of one more such expression I heard your colleagues, coalition partners, having such coalition partners, you do not need to have opposition. Absolutely! [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] But let them be your halal, purely Bulgarian. You chose them, I wish you as long as possible to work with them to feel the unprincipledness. And the way they now transfer to Parliament as a responsibility all this work will not be useful for you. Before that, I'd like to say a few more words. Why is it necessary to adopt a decision of the Council of Ministers regarding the passage of a new pipe to our western border? Why do we need to make a gas hub? Why do we need to participate in the construction of the gas terminal? Colleagues, not to go back too far, there were some democratic times, and now you have at least one or two MPs who have remained since 1990. They think of elections to the ground, but they do not think of the diversion of the Syn Stream from Russia, which would have come to the borders of Bulgaria. We weren't in the European Union then, we didn't have to meet all these requirements of the big brother and today about this Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this project as an opportunity for gas delivery within Bulgaria with the following argument: the situation in the Azov Sea. I assume that the stopping of gas in Ukraine will soon be a fact, and 2009 will be seen as a day. In 2009, we left you a program for building and building the interconnectors and now, if you can tell us where you are, because you have been managing since 2009. You won't be able to boast big results, but you've made progress. Congratulations! The efforts you make are at least in the right direction. The efforts in what you are doing at the moment to pass at least a Turkish stream in Bulgaria is also worthy of admiration. But we can't admire you for the South Stream that you came and stopped. Here I will open only one clamp to congratulate Dragomir Stoynev, and let BSP accept it as if only DPS had made one decision at the time of that government "South Stream" or actually have access to gas directly for Bulgaria again. We don't want this strategy to be here. I would like to ask a question then: well, now in connection with gas delivery and transiting, you are changing Strategy, and when are you going to change the energy strategy with which you have a decision to build Belene's steam-gas plant? You decided the other day that you were going to build the Belene project, and a few years ago you stopped the Belene project. In the strategy you have a solution to build a block of nuclear power plant. When will you propose it to the National Assembly? So, there are a number of questions, a lot of questions that you shouldn't be challenging today, so that we can focus on how and how to make this project happen. My next argument. Why are you bringing it in as a change of strategy when the 10-year development plan of Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) since 2012 has so far passed through the KEWRC and has been confirmed, and it is established that Bulgaria should have since 2015 the so-called gas hub. It really doesn't need large storehouses because the world is developing and virtual trade has to take place. These things should be explained at length, but not today and here. If this time too, if this time too! We are mixing a decision of the Council of Ministers with the transfer of the Strategy and the Prime Minister not to be responsible for the development of energy, the Ministry of Energy not to decide how and how we will develop not only the gas pipes that will pass through here, how and how we will reduce emissions, how and how you will not join the trade unions to go out together to defend something that you should have completed in advance and decided how we will close those productions with large quantities of harmful emissions, but to move on to new and innovative, somehow for energy, I see no development and future in the interests of Bulgaria's energy and in the interests of Bulgaria. Colleagues, this is the last compartment on the last train...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u27	At the door, at the door!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u28	...which gives us a chance to sort of line up, deliver...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u29	At the door!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u30	...go for Bulgaria. To whom and in what way it suits him, it is a separate matter. We must do everything we can when Kostov closes the Syn Stream as soon as the Prime Minister closes the South Stream, if Mr. Nikolov says that our Russian partners trust us, at least to deliver gas through the Turkish Stream. If it wasn't pathetic, it would be funny! We need to get involved, as soon as possible to complete the link with the delivery from the "Turkish Stream 2" and as quickly as possible to do so that we can hear the Bulgarian Energy Forum, which offers another route. Maybe it's cheaper or more expensive, it's not the work of the MPs, where it's going to go, how and in what way we can contact Austria, because we also have to participate in the Austrian gas delivery hub if we want diversification, even if it's going to be the same gas. If we are talking about diversification, colleagues, we, MPs, should be aware that nearly seven or eight years we have been late to the Prime Minister's decision to participate with a certain percentage in the construction of the liquefied gas terminal. Late too, fireman's decisions again! Because if we don't get involved in building this terminal, we'll never have diversification. Whether gas will come from Israel, whether it comes from Algeria, whether it comes from America, this is the diversification of gas supply. And the other one, which will pass through Greece from.TANAP, from Azerbaijan. Now doubt is reality, but we will have no doubt what this gas is going to be another stream from where we should be getting gas. Madam Minister, today you would have sounded much more serious if you had presented to the MPs a decision of the Council of Ministers with a project that you have adopted with data and figures of 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. We were all going to focus on how, how and why this pipe was worth so much. And now we're burdening you! Imagine that you can't find investors for 2 billion. 814 million BGN, and it's for 19 billion BGN or 3 billion BGN.! Somehow you do such actions, then you fall into a situation of satisfying, in a situation of something positive you want to do, but at the beginning you pour a spoon of tar into the barrel of honey. We have asked you before you begin this, we have asked everyone that with a change of strategy this process will be much heavier than with a decision of the Council of Ministers, of a strong prime minister, but in recent times its strength prevails, and this... [[Heckling]] You're extending the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u31	We're extending the time, that's what I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u32	You're extending the time, I don't believe I've spoken that long, but still a few more sentences. The losses you have written as figures expect after stopping gas through Ukraine and the profits from transiting that you are going to receive are somehow incompatible neither in comparison with the years nor with the quantities that will be transited. And I don't know how and how after a contract concluded with arbitration in Moscow, you're going to get the Russians to agree with that. Four that you wrote here if they don't agree to transit. Although you do not have real contracts signed where you will buy the gas, although we do not yet have an economic and financial analysis that is made for this pipeline that will pass through here and whether it is financially cost-effective, we will support what you are proposing. We will support it not because your coalition partners are not at the moment, but because what you present to us is necessary for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. A line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, there is a lot of logic in what you say as a building, but I want to tell you this: building the pipe through Serbia, Hungary, Austria even if the stream is directed only to the north of the Western side, so to speak, northwest, we can use virtual streams, that is, without any problem we can use this hub in Baumgarten. On top of that, the case, which ended with the Agreement, the European Commission v. Gazprom, gave an opportunity and the Russians agreed, precisely, to such auctions. I mean, we're gonna use Russian gas, but we're gonna pay prices in the hub that's in Austria. I would like to clarify this is an important condition. The Trans-Balkan pipeline, which at some point could actually get dry, God forbid, although the Russian side said it wouldn't end with transit through Ukraine, but given the events I wouldn't say we're inclined to believe, it can be enjoyed in the north, so there are many possibilities. Thank God all opportunities pass through Bulgaria at least at the moment, and we should take advantage. We should take advantage of one of the few cases recently, not only for the gas, but for the geographical location of Bulgaria. I welcome that you will support the amendment of the Strategy, thank God. I hope it's almost unanimous. I can see that Mr. Svilensky won't support it, but we can give the government our backs so that he can play these important cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u35	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! Mr. Nikolov, what you explain is useful to understand other colleagues, but at the heart of what you said, Bulgaria needs energy, and pure energy because I do not possess anyone who will be in power on July 1st. Then Minister Petkova, no matter how hard the employers push her, no matter how much the trade unions hug each other, no matter how much the president sends messages that he will protect their social affairs and competitiveness until we stop talking about clean energy with high productivity, all energy new, innovative, even from Turkey, we will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Speaking, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, it is not true that GERB's coalition partners are not in class. GERB's coalition partners are absolutely in class with everything, including on this issue. There is no party in Bulgaria, which, as an attack for years, has been on the political stage, to defend so firmly, relentlessly and consistently these interests of Bulgaria. Our position is through Bulgaria to pass the pipelines because there is no country in the world through which the pipelines have passed, that this is not beneficial for their national interest and for them. Because the passage of a gas pipeline makes one country significant. If it doesn't have gas, then at least the pipeline has strategic significance. He's never a loser. All this talk about losing a gas pipeline is tossing a gas pipeline through a country, when it is for the benefit of foreign agents, foreign interests, as happened in Bulgaria. Opponents of the United Patriarchs speculate on the allegations of interpersonal, almost purely interhuman relations when it comes to contradictions in the United Patriarchs. Dear colleagues, I will say to all Bulgarians: this is not about the interpersonal relations between leaders in the European Union, but about the fundamental differences in policy. I will not talk about other principled differences, but about a radically different attitude to the strategic issue for Bulgaria: about the pipeline, which would now be a fact. Currently, four pipes of 15 billion cubic meters would stop coming to Varna and beat gas for the whole of southern Europe with all the benefits for this. Four trumpets that would have been financed by Gazprom. Four pipes! Many of the pipes were delivered and I think they are still in the port of Varna, with the alienated terrains, with the finished eco-evaluations that would have been a fact. Bulgaria would be, if only with this, a strong and significant country in Southeast Europe. Dear colleagues, two weeks ago, it was not sad for me, it was tragic..................... it was tragic............... when some reports on Bulgarian television were shown quite sparingly and we saw Putin and Erdogan welcome the seaside of Turkey. For me, it was just another national disaster, the result of that rejection. Erdogan and his wards must carry flowers and wreaths to the grave of Senator McCain, who came during the reign of Oresharski, ordered and followed his order. At the moment, see how strange the Turkish nationalist party is going to be in DPS... [[Thuds from DPS: Shut the fuck up!]] Here I will commend you for the construction of this pipeline with one of its pipes, not the four that were designed. Of course, the DPS does not care about the Bulgarian national interest, it still cares about the Turkish national interest, and that is because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u39	Dear Mr. Shopov, please remain within the framework of acceptable political speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u40	Don't worry, it's political talk, they won't sanction you, don't be so cowardly. For this they will not ask for your resignation, as happened to the previous President of the National Assembly. Don't worry, Mr. Vice President. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u41	I can tell you that I'm not afraid, but after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u42	Here the DPS takes care of the continuation of one of the pipes of the Turkish Stream. She has to go somewhere. Where do you want it to go? Through Turkey's favorite and DPS Greece? It's a little hard. It can go through Bulgaria. Imagine this coincides with our interest at the moment, which is very good. We can continue in this order of thought to infinity, but let's take care and serve our Bulgarian national interest. Not the Ukrainian one, which was also spoken of. Not to be proud that we have turned down the four pipes of the South Stream. Bulgaria's representative until recently in the United States was Ambassador, on one of the TV stations explained how much Bulgaria had benefited from refusing a South Stream.................. because it has implemented, Bulgaria has been adequate with some energy strategies in Europe that it has been ordered, or by the United States. Can you imagine what political insanity and what service to other people's interests and obedience! It is clear that the gas lines are passing and from the south they will power Europe. It's a geostrategic logic that moves the routes. Let's take advantage of this and not talk nonsense, not to be more Catholic than Euro-Atlantics. Can't be this indulgence, kind of: I am a nationalist, I think of the Bulgarian national interest, but I am a good Euro-Atlantic, russophobic. Let's be bulgarophiles and everyone in this House today to vote unambiguously what is being offered to us. I think we are once again at consensus, because I am happy whenever we come out of this room with a decision adopted by consensus. And as for the United Patriarchs, we'll be fine. To solve our problems, we have experience, wisdom and many years of political experience behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. A line from Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u44	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Shopov, we would have had several pipes to bring Russian gas to Bulgaria, from which Bulgaria would benefit. We would have had a nuclear power plant called Belene. We would have had normal health care and good education, which would help the overall development of Bulgaria. We would have had enough medicine for all Bulgarians. We'd have a lot of good stuff. We would've had 300 leva. pension, minimum pension in Bulgaria. However, we have a sale of Bulgarian citizenship, raising our personal friends for the highest ranks in Bulgaria.Stara Mountains, invasions at airports with loaded weapons and a bunch of other things that were not part of our election promises when we appeared before Bulgarian citizens. Let each one stand before himself, in front of the mirror, remember what he said, what he promised for the election, a little more conscience and emphasize on these things that are good for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people, and not that are good only for our parties, for our closest surroundings, family and friendly. For us it is amazing why yesterday you gave up your basic promise of 300 leva. Retirement? [[Replyings from "United Patriarchs": "Where's the line?"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u45	Dear Mr. Mareshki, please finish. Finish it, Mr. Mareshki! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u46	Mr. Simeonov, if you're so used to it in the Council of Ministers, here we have Rules and behave a little bit. When you hear me replicating you like that, then allow yourself to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u47	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shopov, I could not understand whether you are united or divided? I couldn't figure out how from this... [[Replys from "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u49	Mr. Atalay, I'm gonna have to ask for the line to the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u50	Mr. Chairman, if one line doesn't have an argument, it can't be a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u51	I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u52	Don't try to get into Mr. Shopov's tone. What he said: he accused the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in another nonsense that we are defending Turkish interest, defending that the pipe that is necessary for Bulgaria, where we all live, will pass through Bulgaria. I congratulate you that for the first time you will protect Turkish interest by protecting the pipe to pass through Bulgaria! Congratulations! Every day, your only argument is to come out, to get that out of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and almost eat children. Look at what you've been eating, see, since you've been in power. I do not want to repeat myself yesterday, foresters from Silistra, after lunch in the center of Sofia, before that some who led how to pass immigrants through Bulgaria, while others ordered passports to give them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u53	I remind you again, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u54	...and if all this is a defense of national interest, don't look for us in this. Be serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u55	Thank you. Is there a third line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u56	Well, if we're separated, if we're joined, leave that alone, don't worry about it. We have seen enough over the years, over the decades, of both Guner Tahir and Kasim Dahl and of Lutvi Mestan, who was your leader until recently and saved himself at the Turkish Embassy. But as far as Turkish and Bulgarian national interests are concerned, I have nothing against Turkish national interest, the point is that it is at the expense and actually succeeds at the expense of the Bulgarian national interest. Because Turkish gas, on the Turkish coast and on the Turkish coast, and the Turkish Streams, in general, means the lack of Bulgaria and the failure to pass through Bulgaria of the four pipes of South Stream. That's the question for us, that's what I care about. You saw what a celebration it was in Turkey for the fact that the Bulgarian South Stream did not take place, but it took place at the expense of this "Turkish Stream" which we are now struggling with. Borisov walks, makes methanes, squirms, prays we saw all this, does everything possible for the person to get through, to pass a pipe through Bulgaria. Mr. Mareshki very nicely started we would, we would, we would, and he could continue to tell how many things we Bulgarians would have done by now. But in the context of this conversation, Mr. Mareshki, leave the other allegations, the other tosses, they are unnecessary and not to strain, not to complicate the relationship, after we see that the entire Chamber and all the political forces are going to consensus, except for just one part of the United Patriarchs, to my very great regret.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct is entirely to you. To reassure you, do not worry, we will not ask for your resignation if you follow the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The dear Mr. Shopov made his statement, based entirely on the DPS, and then, when Mr. Atalay reacted to what he said, you once again freaked out what Mr. Atalay would say. Don't worry, just remember that the nationalists aren't in the middle, they're in that end! In keeping with the regulations, there will be no concern about your place. Thank you. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u59	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u60	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. I can't understand why you allow during a speech of a Member of the National Assembly the replicator not to replicate him, but to replicate a Deputy Prime Minister who is not present here? My request to you is: when Mr. Mareshki makes a line, to see if he makes a line to the speaker, or to speak on behalf of the group, or some other thing of his that excites him. Yes, we know that Mr. Mareshki and the party are a crutch of power, but still there are Rules of the National Assembly and must be respected. Separately, when he has taken the floor, it is good to read his Rules and, moreover, when he is involved in a discussion, he should sit in the Chamber afterwards and not stand up there. So, Mr. President, please, even though Mr. Mareshki is a crutch of power, to still take the.........the strict treatment of his speeches. [[The President gives a sign that he will respond and come down to the stand. The Chairman's seat is taken by Mr. Veselin Mareshki.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u61	I have a right not to speak on the subject, but on what has been said so far. In a year's time, as I am in this position, many people have ranked apart from asking for my resignation to explain to me how a meeting is being held. I am conducting these meetings, as the Rules dictate, but also my personal understanding of the attitude in this House, my personal understanding of the relation between the Members of the National Assembly. I strive, as far as I can, to calm the situation, because I believe that the President or the person who is holding the meetings is not a concrete wall, but must be flexible enough and give the opportunity, apart from telling the truths, not to cause conflicts. Please remember, the place where I am is not the most important thing to me! For me, important things are not found in this room. I will remain in this place and continue to lead the meetings as I understand them and as it is written in the Rules, relying on your understanding, on assistance, on assistance, because the conflicts in this House not only contradict our relations, but also on what we have promised to people. Sometimes I have to go into conflict with myself, allowing speeches, lines and relations that I consider unacceptable to the MPs. Secondly, I will remain in this place until I decide or until this power that stands behind me and which supports my candidacy does not consider that I am not in my place. Please don't ask any more questions that are not of particular importance to me. I strive to give each and every one of you the opportunity to say what you think, but please be within the acceptable relations between the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Mr. Emil Hristov took the chair again.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u62	In connection with my speech, I have the right to do so. I am not involved in the debate on the subject, and I will therefore continue to lead the meeting. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u63	Mr President, since I have seen that there are others who wish to speak, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time on this point to the vote on item seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Inverse opinion Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u65	Mr President, in addition to extending the time until the report is adopted, I propose that parliamentary control be extended with the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u66	I get it. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Delyan Dobrev. They voted 141 MPs: 133, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. After Mr. Shopov's speech, Mr. Zablyanov will have the floor to comply with the rules of rotation. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As my fellow Members have also said, the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support the proposed draft decision, but in this regard, and in so far as the draft decision is related to an amendment in the energy strategy, it seems to me that a few words need to be said. Firstly, the moments such as today in the National Assembly are particularly valuable, not for anything else, but because they represent an occasion for a very serious reflection and consideration of what the executive power in Bulgaria and the political parties and Parliament are doing about the overall vision and, as we like to say, the strategy for our development, because the energy strategy has a bearing on this. What can be said about today's proposal? It is dictated by the energy routes for transit and distribution of natural gas being built outside our strategy. We are now adapting to the realities that were created in the last.. it is not even about the last pipeline that is currently being opened, but about the previous transit pipeline, which was also built across the Black Sea [[GERB's line]] which also took part of the transit that passed through Bulgaria. The issue of Bulgaria's place as a gas distribution centre in the Balkans stands not yesterday, but it has stood since 1996. The first project was the Topenerji project. I am returning things to Topenerji to show and illustrate that our entire development since then in the field of gas distribution as a sub-sector of energy has been built on a rotten foundation. There is no government, there is no legislative body that has really succeeded in creating a strategy, because if we had a strategy, we would not be making today's amendment to the strategy. That shows we don't have a strategy! This shows that we have additional documents that we accept and vote on as a result of the circumstances created. What strategy is needed in this regard of Bulgaria today? Firstly, it is alphabetically true that in all the contracts that were conducted with the Gazexport and with the Russian Federation over the years, the issue of prices has always been linked. The question of transit and the question of the price of the internal market, as agreed, have always been linked in the talks. The transit pipe is not only related to transit and it also relates to the development of the internal gas market in Bulgaria. If the current Energy Strategy is opened, it is not difficult to see what a modest share there is in the topic of the development of the internal gas market, in particular about the domestic gasification in Bulgaria. It is high time to understand that without the development of the internal gas market, the domestic gasification and the borrowing of at least an average percentage as a share of the domestic gas sales, Bulgaria cannot become a developed European state. There is a direct link in this way of structuring the gas market. The security of gas supply is also the key issue here when such a strategy is being addressed, it seems to me that it cannot be focused solely on transit. The transit, yes, it is an activity that can make profits, to guarantee some specific geopolitical place in Bulgaria, to increase security, but without the development of the internal gas market we cannot represent any interest for anyone. In this case Bulgaria is only territory. If you look at the dynamics of the development of the natural gas market in Europe over the last 15 years, the trend is very clear. This is a trend of growth. I also believe that the answer to the question is whether such a project is economically profitable and effective? Yes, it is economically profitable and effective because without providing cheap and secure energy supplies, in the case of natural gas, the European economy will continue to stagnate and fall behind in comparison with the other centres of the world economy that are located in Southeast Asia and in the United States. The question is therefore not simply Bulgarian, the question is not related to the pipe whether it came to the Turkish border or Isakchà, but the question is where Bulgaria is in all this development of the energy routes of the European continent and the provision of natural gas supplies to the economy of European countries. It is also obvious that the liquefied gas market is also developing, unlike the gas supplied by pipes. It is obvious that consumption in Europe cannot be limited to large consumers in Central Europe, which are Germany and Austria, for France the case is more special because it has supplies from North Africa. In that case, first of all, what are the conclusions to be drawn today? We'll make the repairs. BSP will support the proposed draft decision. What is needed? Bulgaria's energy strategy needs to be rewritten and we need to be clear about this. Not for anything else, but because this energy strategy has been written with a view to the realities of the mid-1990s, at most the beginning of the present century. What's coming. It's obvious the discovery and inclusion of new fields. The growing role of gas from the Caspian region is evident. Obviously, this is all about natural gas prices. It is obvious that the price of natural gas does not form on the market like other hydrocarbons but is the result of direct negotiation between producers and suppliers. At least that's how it is right now. Here I would like to indirectly touch on the issue of the hub that has been mentioned. Someone mentioned it was Mr. Atalay, who noted that such a project could be carried out without additional capacity or whatever they are called. Well, it could probably happen, but then this isn't going to be a hub, it's going to be some kind of stock exchange, right, where some futures are going to be traded? Well, in that case, let's put this in order, i.e. to have, to build such an exchange in Bulgaria. Because it is obvious that in the future there will be other price formation mechanisms, not only on the basis of direct negotiations with producers and suppliers. And in the end, as far as the immediate, Bulgarian interest, which seems to me, can already be hardly defended in the current realities, I am convinced that the Bulgarian immediate interest dictates that Bulgaria should receive gas in the most direct way from the producer, at the best possible price for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian domestic producers. Unfortunately, this project could not be implemented for a number of reasons. It is now necessary in what is built as transit routes, the contracts that are concluded, the investors who have entered this sector, to find the place of Bulgarian interest in the development of the Bulgarian gas market. It is speculated repeatedly with prices for both domestic consumption and industrial consumption. However, one must be clear: gas prices for both domestic and industrial consumption are first and foremost determined by the volumes consumed. First of all, of the volumes! Therefore, the Bulgarian national interest requires an increase in the volumes of natural gas consumption, which is directly related to the level of prices. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u69	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! At the address of our political formation, many idiots, unfortunately, and primitive ones, have expressed themselves. According to the degree of idiocy or their primitiveism, they have come to such amounts as crutches or even canes, but we leave that to their conscience. We are from the Political Party and I am only interested in the assessment of the Bulgarian people, which we and I personally receive as a person and as a businessman and as a politician on a daily basis. I dare say that I am proud of my work in these qualities. To my respected Mr. Shopov, I would like to say something to him, and by addressing all of you: we do not know whether they are the Coalition's partner, united patriots, patriots, corrupt patriots or armed patriots. That's their problem. We certainly know that some of them are not Bulgarian patriots. Because Bulgarian patriotism, the Bulgarian patriot, cannot deal with the sale of Bulgarian citizenship.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u70	Mr. Mareshki, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u71	I didn't say anything. I say what the Bulgarian patriot cannot do. He cannot walk armed among Bulgarian citizens with a loaded weapon. He would never go so far as to offer his friend without merit, of course, for the highest honorary order of the Old Mountain. Actually, I wanted to say something more important. Mr. Shopov, you said: "Let's be Bulgarians. This is actually the main thing I wanted to talk about in this declaration. There is no way we can be Bulgarianphiles. Bulgarians can be Russians, Albanians, Americans, Germans. These people who sympathize with Bulgaria can be Bulgarianphiles. A Bulgarian who loves his homeland is called a patriot. He cannot be a Bulgarianophile. He's called a patriot. We can use the word "patriots" if it wasn't so tarnished. I will therefore call on you: let us not be Bulgarians, that is, as some foreigners to look at our country, but to be true Bulgarian patriots and when we defend certain causes, including what we see at the moment, to think exactly as such. When the only explanation of the small against the Bulgarian national interest is that by defending the Bulgarian national interest, and some other countries would also be protected their interest, of course, that in each transaction there would be no such if everyone involved in the deal were not satisfied to different degrees. We must listen to our consciences once again, try not to be Bulgarian patriots, but Bulgarian patriots, not united, divided or any other patriots, but Bulgarian patriots. And just by leading by pushing each and every one of us in front of us this button, with which we express the will of the people who sent us here. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause by.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Dear Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Let's ask a rhetorical question first. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u74	I'm following the rules of procedure, I assure you! I'm not doing anything wrong, I'm following the rules, the order to make the requests. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u75	Colleague, I'm giving you up. Come on in. There's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u76	Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u77	Dear Mr. President, my procedure in the manner of conduct is not in relation to the speech of the BSP colleague, but in relation to the speech of Mr. Mareshki, which you did not interrupt when he began to refer to an item on the agenda. Mr. Mareshki has a poor knowledge of the topic of Patriotism. He's been trying to pretend to be one for a while now, so he's juggling words that he doesn't understand, but that's just part of it. The main problem I am glad that he finally took his note and, after taking part in the discussion, sat down. This was the remark of colleague Angelov. Thus it is in the Rules of Procedure: Member of Parliament, in the sense Vice-President or Chairman, if he takes part in the discussion, should stay down with his colleagues, not look at them from above and suggest some position to them thanks to his pedestal. In this regard, I would like to make you a comment on the order of the speeches. Life and health, I will wait for my colleague Gechev and I will speak after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. It was a procedure. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The first rhetorical question is how we accept changes in the Energy Strategy, given that Bulgaria does not have an Economic Development Strategy. Is it not logical for us to have a Strategy for Economic Development to assess what energy sources, in what quantities, in what terms? It's a logical question. We are now making amendments to the Energy Strategy without knowing what the Bulgarian economy is doing over the next 5, 10 or 15 years. So this is our first serious problem. The second problem is the changes we make after approximately a 10-year period. Dear colleagues, in ten years we have frozen three strategic projects. Who froze them? To remind you, I will quote. On October 12, 2015, Mr. Borisov told the Bulgarian-American Chamber of Commerce said: "We have stopped three major Russian projects. This is a loss of billions for the period since the start of the projects. So what do we do today? We go back to an exit base and say that the göl is no longer a göl, that the pipes from Russia are the right pipes and should come to Bulgaria, only we do not say why we had to wait ten years and lose billions. Why, in a period when Germany started an installation of two additional pipes, did we have to follow the recommendations of Germany, France and the United States? Why, when Rosatom is building a new nuclear power plant in Turkey, is expanding in Hungary, in Finland, in the Czech Republic, we had to carry out and ruin these projects? And that is why I will reply this way: honourable Members, we will, of course, support, because it is better late than never! But to Mr. Prime Minister Borisov's question, we have stopped three major Russian projects. And if this isn't a partnership, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u80	Thank you, dear Professor Gechev. A line? Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u81	Mr. Gechev, absolutely right. I agree. I won't disprove you with anything, but go further, go all the way, and say, who made us stop them, what was the reason we didn't build and bury these projects? Who's here? I'm referring to Mrs Hillary Clinton, who, in her capacity as Foreign Minister, came and ordered. The late Senator McCain with two fellow senators came and ordered. That's what you say and let's all be clear, not slap each other here, hate each other and blame each other. Come on, when we start telling each other the truths, let's go all the way and name them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Gechev, there is no act of the Council of Ministers, there is no document to be accepted and to say that we are stopping South Stream. On the contrary, it is in the Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Strategy must be implemented. I can tell you that by the time Mr. Dobrev was a minister, we gave a final investment decision in relation to the South Stream. Everything we've done, we've done. The South Stream is not stopped by the Bulgarian side. It was announced, as I recall, in Istanbul or Ankara, it doesn't matter in Turkey when Mr Putin was there. I don't want to remind you when some congressmen came to Mr. Oresharski, what decision has been made. Never, in any way, has the Bulgarian government stopped South Stream. There is no such document and there is no point in listening to unnecessary suggestion. In connection with the nuclear power plant "Belene". Do you remember why the project was shut down? Because of the fact that there is no investor. If you have to bury the country with 20% of gross domestic product, put it into one plant, well, I don't think that's the best solution. I don't know, you're a professor of economics. You have to say, but if you put 20% of gross domestic product into a project that is risky... I won't remind China how long they couldn't launch the project and then, maybe not just because of that, but also because of that, they went bankrupt. So I don't know who would make that decision. For Burgas, if I have more time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u84	You have 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u85	If this project was implemented, as far as I can tell, 14% of the gross domestic product is formed by tourism. Would we have formed so long as Bulgaria would not have any profit left from this project? This has been proven economically. Don't go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Third line? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u87	Thank you. Since I was not in the hall and heard that names were mentioned, I can tell Professor Gechev that on the famous visit that was then by senators, it was never about the South Stream Project. It never happened! I was in China at the time and stated that this project was irreversible. Maybe we should have just looked at our so-called European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u89	Dear colleagues, the most important thing: who is wrong and who is right, Bulgarian citizens know perfectly well because they follow the news and I quoted the Bulgarian Prime Minister's speeches. He says he has stopped the projects Mr. Borisov. Your Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Bachvarova, she said, I quote: she is proud that her Prime Minister Borisov has stopped these projects. That's the facts and we read them. This is costing us a lot because whatever we are saying, honourable Members, what are we doing now in 2019?! We're going back to the projects right now. "Belene" was a wonderful project, according to Mr. Borisov, a speech in Panorama, then became a göl. Now it's not a göl, it's a good project. South Stream was stopped. You're right. There's no solution. If there is no decision of the European Commission, what are you hanging out with South Stream for 10 years? On the left, on the right, this guy doesn't want to, that guy doesn't want to. Don't you see that Mrs. Merkel has begun the launch of the second two pipes in all these years? Don't you see in international analysis what's going on in Ukraine? What's gonna happen is it's been written for five years. Now it will turn out that in Bulgaria we will have a hub. What kind of hub will you ladies and gentlemen have when there's no gas? They're gonna stay open six pipes on the hub, and what are you gonna fill it with? You're gonna race hedgehogs on the pipes? [[Laughter]] Shame and shame! You say: "Your government has stopped the projects and now we are coming back, but someone has to pay the political price. So when you had a visit to Moscow, you were impressed that our delegation came home very quickly. Why? One option is because the chef got sick in the Kremlin, and the second option is that things are going bad, and they seem to be going. Unfortunately, we pay the price. It doesn't matter what kind of senators have come. The important thing is it's serving, not just now. We have always said: "Shame and disgrace for any Bulgarian politicians who serve foreign interests. We lose billions for our people and finally we don't have natural gas, we don't have the manufacturing industry. Where will we have, as our politicians serve only to remain in power?! Shame and shame! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u90	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u91	I, too, will join this, how to say, famous phrase: "Shame and disgrace for Bulgarian politicians who serve foreign interests! " Unfortunately, our post-totalitarian history is rich in such politicians. They are literally in all the formations that have ruled until the current government. I think that at least in the current management format we have a moderate and subsequent national policy interests. IMRO MPs will support the draft decision. I must point out that in the meeting of the Energy Commission I abstained for reasons similar to those which Mr. Simeonov pointed out. The material is quite posting. We are asked, in fact, through the Strategy to decide on a management action, seeking national consensus. We are ready to give our Dan, of course, this national consensus. However, there must be the necessary information. Here is my criticism of the Ministry of Energy, which, in my opinion, should have been a little more specific in its work with the MPs and the groups of MPs, because the project is really extremely important and strategic for the state. We shouldn't miss it. We should not miss the benefit of this benefit of Bulgaria's economic benefit for our country. Not to mention that it is largely rescue for both current supplies and the possibility for our economy to function normally. I would not specifically seek in the speeches in this House anything other than seeking national interest. Especially with us, the Patriots, he has been promoted to the highest cult. However, this national interest is also followed on the basis of an accurate arithmetic of the state to benefit and not just to wave loud slogans. Again, IMRO MPs will vote for this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u92	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll try to keep it short. I listened carefully to all the speeches. I would like to start by saying that we in Parliament today are not making a decision to assign the Council of Ministers or the independent transmission operator to do something. It is very important to clarify this! We are making a decision today, as stated in the Energy Act, to approve a proposal for a change in the Energy Strategy. The transport operator in Bulgaria is independent. He makes his own decisions. We have a Minister of Energy who has proposed in the Council of Ministers a change of energy strategy, and what we are doing here today is not making a decision about which stream we are going to join, we are not going to join, what our advantage is, what our loss is. We make a decision according to our competence only because the rest is outside our competence... to change Bulgaria's energy strategy. This is important in view of possible suspicions of infringements or of the independence of the independent operator. That is to say, we are not making a decision. The government has made its decision, in fact the independent operator has proposed to the government, it has made its decision, we are only implementing the Law to approve the change in the Energy Strategy. Secondly, in most of the speeches it was about large energy projects, about the billions we missed to win, but the truth is that of these big projects, the billions are only in minus. So far, the billions are only in minus. We've only been paying, and we haven't gotten anything. I will not engage in this debate and in this debate: who had stopped one project and who had stopped another project, in my opinion Mr. Nikolov put the facts well enough. He neglected only to note that, as far as Burgas is concerned, Alexandroupolis had local referendums, as you recall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u94	Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u95	In these local referendums, three pieces tell me Mr. Simeonov, this project was rejected by the local population. I will not stop and will not argue with you who has stopped, or who has not stopped the facts are such that we have only been at a minus of everything we have done on these projects so far. I'm not going to argue about this, because that's not the point. Not that part, in my opinion, in the Energy Strategy is the most important thing that we need to pay attention to and concentrate on. Whether there will be an additional gas infrastructure built on the territory by the Bulgarian government or not, this will be of almost zero importance to consumers, because it will not directly affect the final price of gas in Bulgaria, as it has nothing to do with the trade contract by which we buy gas from one supplier or another. It is a question of possible revenue from transit charges that will pay off the investment and provide a profit to a state-owned company. So this whole thing has nothing to do with domestic consumers or domestic gasification in Bulgaria or with industrial consumers or with anyone else. Much more important, which no one mentioned, except for Mr. Simeonov, I heard from him, is that in this energy strategy is recorded the participation of the Bulgarian independent operator in the construction of a liquefied gas terminal in Alexandroupolis. This is important. This is important, in fact, although it does not cost billions, like the development of transmission infrastructure, but costs millions. Perhaps Bulgaria's shareholding will be between 10 and 20 million. EUR., that is, hundreds of times less than the billions we are talking about, but with much greater importance for consumers in Bulgaria. This solution can have a real impact on the final prices of domestic subscribers, the industry in Bulgaria, all users and the development of the distribution network in order to have more people access to this gas. The more competitive the price, the more demanding and more sought-after this fuel will be and the more its network will develop in the country. For me in changing the Energy Strategy, the key thing today is participation. As Mr. Stoinev said: an idea from 2005 and 2006, which started working again in 2015. The Bulgarian shareholder participation in this terminal has a modest amount, as I have already told you. The construction and operation of this terminal will ensure that Bulgaria will have an alternative to buying liquefied gas from all exporters of liquefied gas in the world. At this terminal, every liquefied gas exporter in the world will be able to regase this gas, that is, we will have not one, two or three suppliers, we will have access to the liquefied gas throughout the world. What is important in this case is that the Bulgarian access, the access of Bulgarian consumers to the liquefied gas of the whole world will put a cap on the price of gas in Bulgaria, because it will ensure that this price under no circumstances, whether oil is cheap or expensive, because you know that our current contract is tied to 100% with oil derivatives, no matter what the price of oil, we will have a ceiling of the price of gas, because it will never be more expensive than it really costs on free market exchanges in the world. For me, this is the key solution. A second important decision, which no one has also mentioned, is that in the Strategy it is written that the independent transfer of an operator will create a gas exchange in Bulgaria. We've had an energy exchange for 5 years. It has proven its benefits 75 to 80% of the electricity market in Bulgaria is liberalized. The same should be done with the gas market in the country. That is, this is also another important key solution that is in the Strategy, and I hope it will be implemented next year. That's why I thank you for your attention. I hope that we will vote, so that we do not dampen the debate too much. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Minister Petkova will take the matter into consideration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u97	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I listened very carefully to the debate, I listened very carefully to each of my fellow Members who addressed this extremely important topic and the questions you have raised. I would like to thank you for having such a desire and responsibility to approach each of the aspects of the update of the Energy Strategy that we are proposing. These are topics that are extremely important. We all know that energy is a specific sector. This industry is connected not only with the country's energy security, it is related to our national security. And because it has several times spoken about whether this is exactly how the update of the strategy should happen and proceed to these steps that we are proposing, my personal opinion and the opinion of the government is that the debate on this topic is here in Parliament. What is the Strategy? Generally speaking, the strategy is a plan at the highest level on how to achieve certain objectives... with what resources, with what measures, with what steps. Mr. Dobrev also noted the Energy Act provides that the state policy in the field of energy is determined by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. The National Assembly shall adopt the Strategy developed and proposed by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers shall implement this strategy adopted by the National Assembly. That's why I think this debate belongs right here and now. Thank you once again for the extremely constructive dialogue, for the discussion that has taken place. In the course of the discussion important topics were raised. The topic related to interconnections and the concept of a gas distribution centre, which is the basis for the update of the Strategy, was put on the table. Of course, colleagues, there is no way to talk about a gas distribution centre on the territory of Bulgaria, if necessary an infrastructure that is not actually available. We can only talk, we can have great plans, but in order to have natural gas delivered from different sources, as at least three European rules provide, we must have the necessary infrastructure to enable us to deliver these quantities of natural gas and accordingly to trade natural gas. Bulgaria's intersystem relations with neighbouring countries are the main focus in this concept of gas distribution center. The undisputed top priority project is the interconnector Greece Without this interconnection, we have virtually no way to talk about real diversification of the natural gas supply source. It is no coincidence that this project is also included in the European Union's seven top priorities. These seven top priorities include important structured projects for the whole of the European Union, for energy security and for the liberalisation of the natural gas market. The Interconnector Greece - Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen, is a project that is in an irreversible phase of its realization. In the final rights are the results of the public procurements that are announced and which are currently being finalised so that the project can start its construction at the beginning of next year. What we have made as a commitment and which is laid down in the roadmap that we have presented and together with the European Commission we have agreed that the project will be put into commercial operation in 2020. It is a commitment that is unalternative to us and we will fulfill it. You know that the government for the fourth year in a row in the budget confirms a state guarantee for this project, it is 110 million. Euros. The signing of an intergovernmental agreement with the Greek State is pending so that we can give sustainability to the project for the years in which it will develop. A very important decision was taken by the regulators of the two countries of Greece and Bulgaria regarding the release of the project from the access requirements under the Third Liberalisation Package. These are all steps that are extremely important, decisive and which make the project absolutely irreversible. The interconnector with Serbia is also an extremely important project. In the context of the implementation of the Greece Connector, Bulgaria, this project is becoming more and more important. As noted here, we signed an agreement with the Serbian counterpart and this project will be in effect by May 2022. This is in relation to interconnections without which the realization of the concept of a gas distribution centre is virtually unthinkable. This concept, in addition to Bulgaria's interconnectors with neighbouring countries, includes expanding the transmission infrastructure in the country's territory. The realization of these projects will guarantee us the preservation of Bulgaria's strategic location on the gas map of Europe, will guarantee security and competitive prices not only on the market in Bulgaria, but in the whole region as well. And since we are talking about another very important topic related to the economic parameters of the project, I absolutely agree with Mr. Simeonov that there is no way to talk about a project in itself. Yes, these projects are extremely important, but they, apart from purely strategic importance in terms of security of supply, must also have their economic and financial viability. To the analysis we have presented and the report we have submitted to the National Assembly, we have developed several options relating precisely to the economic and financial performance of this project. It is clear from them that the realization of such a project would guarantee the profit of the Bulgarian State, respectively, which exceeds 4 billion. 350 million. lv. for the period from 2020 to 2040 With regard to another very important aspect that has been mentioned here, relating to the so-called restructuring of the historic treaty, respectively, with the colleagues of the "Gszprom" I would like to point out the following. You have seen in our analysis what is the condition for restructuring this contract. This is a restructuring that will only be carried out, provided that, within the market test, the third, final crucial phase of which is to be launched at the beginning of December of this year, a capacity will be reserved which will be of the order of 15 years to ensure the viability of one such project. There is no energy project in the field of natural gas to be implemented without a clear vision and a clear guarantee of its economic justification. These are the requirements of the European rules, of the European regulations, which Bulgaria strictly follows. As Mr. Dobrev pointed out, the other extremely important emphasis in the update of the Energy Strategy is Bulgaria's participation in the construction of Alexandroupolis' liquefied natural gas terminal. This option enables us to talk about real diversification. Thus, we will have the opportunity to supply liquefied natural gas from the United States of America, Algeria, Qatar, and this will now be a real diversification and liberalisation of the market, which will benefit both Bulgarian consumers and Bulgarian business. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for supporting the update of the country's Energy Strategy and thus once again proving to the Bulgarian citizens that when it comes to important issues related to our national interests, our energy security, our national security, we all have the strength and we are able to join our efforts so that we can work in the interests of Bulgaria. Thanks again from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u98	Thank you, Madame Minister! Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats, we are about to vote on the item at issue on the agenda. Quaestors, invite the MPs from the towers. We are going to vote on a decision to amend and supplement the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. (prom., D.V., No. 43 of 2011). Vote 172 MPs: 162, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We start at 11:30. According to the decision taken today, parliamentary control will continue until 2.30 pm. We extend parliamentary control time. New questions: A question has been received from the MP Lyubomir Boykov Bonev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Nikolay Ivanov, Manol Genov to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy in the field of cadastral creation and maintenance of citizens. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 7 December 2018. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question of the MP Stanislav Vladimirov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question of the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - from the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to four questions from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Lyubomir Bonev; - from the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Yordan Mladenov and Anelia Klisarova; - from the Minister of Environment and Waters Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; - by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Salim Ali; - from the Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Bürhan Abase and Imren Mehmedova. Let's continue with our questions. The first question is to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer a question from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov on a water treatment plant. Sliven, resume construction of the site. Mr. Milev, come in, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In September 2008, a contract was signed between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the consortium "Glavbulgarstroy" and started building a water treatment plant for the town of Sliven. The total value of the construction and installation works under the contract is 34 million. Two hundred and 400 BGN, and as of 8 September 2009 the value of the implementation and paid out works is 30 million. 52,000. BGN 376. Shortly afterwards, during the first government of Boyko Borisov and Minister Rosen Plevneliev, the project was stopped and frozen. Since then, several attempts have been made by the municipality of Sliven to restore it, and at the same time, including today, there is still a lot of money to pay for the protection of the same. Dear Minister, the drinking water treatment plant is not only an important and necessary project for the town of Sliven. We ask for your answer: when are you planning to unfreeze the site and renew the construction for completion of the drinking water treatment plant for the town of Sliven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, dear Mr. Ermenkov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The town of Sliven is supplied by a surface water supply. The water is used for drinking and domestic water supply in the network after decontamination. The available material and technical base ensures the reliable decontaminating of the drinking water supplied in the dilution. Water is characterised by indicators that are within the required minimum according to the standard. The water treatment plant for drinking water for the town of Sliven is designed to purify the water from the dam of Asenovets and according to the first work project of 1987. The station is measured at 1150 liters per second. As the population in the area declined, another project with a reduced water volume of 850 litres per second was developed in 1998, which significantly reduced both the necessary investments and the subsequent operating costs. As you have already said, a contract was concluded in 2008 to complete a Water Purification Station. The construction works are currently completed at 90%. In 2009, construction was frozen, one of the main reasons is that the water supply to the drinking water treatment plant and those from the drinking water treatment plant to the city were not built. The design and construction of the water mains will be carried out with the financing of Operational Programme. These water lines are part of the sites defined in the developed regional pre-investment project for the separate territory served by the Water and Water. The total value of all sites for Sliven's water supply system is around 40 million. lv. These include: the completion of a pressure water supply with a volume of 10 000 cubic metres and the construction of a overflow system from the tank to the existing shaft; the construction of water supply from the distribution shaft to the drinking water treatment plant and from the drinking water treatment plant to the drinking water treatment plant up to 10 000 cubic meters; from a pressure water supply to tanks for a high zone of the town of Sliven; from a soaking water supply plant to the middle area of Sliven; the replacement of water supply lines from the dam to the water supply shaft of the town of Sliven; from a reservoir of 2500 cubic metres to an internal water supply network from the system The number of residents using the service to project 2023 is estimated to be 81 333. The final date for submission of the projects from the Water Supply and Sewerage to the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" for application for funding is 23 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ermenkov, are you going to take an attitude towards the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you have the heavy task of answering questions regarding infrastructure projects in Sliven with a long period of non-compliance. Because what we have heard now is something that has started since 2008 and is expected to eventually end in 2023. It seems to me that 15 years for a treatment plant is too many. And if Bulgaria is moving at such a demographic rate, it may be that by 2023 the treatment plant will be redesigned again because the number of people in the Sliven region has fallen sharply, and it cannot fail if there is no good quality of life. There can be no good quality of life if at least there are no elementary conditions for it, including the possibility of using water that has passed through a treatment plant. Madam Minister, I ask you very much in the backrest that you will do to answer us: what are the possibilities of finishing the work to be much shorter, all the more so that you yourself said that the treatment plant is almost finished and only remains to be made extracting and extracting plumbing? And let us not give the population in Sliven prospects for the development of infrastructure projects to pass behind the ruble of your mandate, provided it is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Milev, in parallel with the construction of the water pipelines, which, as I have already said, will be financed by Operational Program "Environment" and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will award with funding from the state budget the completion of the Cleaning Station for Drinking Waters. The launch of a public contract to investigate the completed construction, design and construction works for the completion of the treatment plant is forthcoming and the forecast period for the implementation of all activities is 2020. The funds for the completion of the Drinking Water Purification Station are provided in the budget programme of the Ministry for 2018 and are in the order of just over 3 million. BGN, as during the time during which the treatment plant will be finished and the plumbing will be built, the Ministry will continue to guard the site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u106	Thank you for your input, dear Minister. That was the only question for you. Before we proceed to questions to the Minister of Interior, the word for procedure has the people's representative Anton Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u107	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is related to the fact that I have been waiting for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to come to parliamentary control and she is not there. From what I understand, the explanation is that this is the second time he's been out of the country. It must be normal for the foreign minister to be out of the country, but one of the obligations explicitly stated in the Rules of Procedure is to be controlled. He's supposed to keep up with his travels so he can show up at least once a month. But why am I bringing this up? The question I have asked her cannot be delayed. According to information she has given me, we are talking about 16 Bulgarian citizens who are innocent under Bulgarian law, but are condemned by Greek law. These are citizens, some of whom already have a 17-year sentence. Innocent under Bulgarian law citizens have a 17-year sentence! And in just a few days, at the beginning of December, the last instance of the Greek court should confirm the verdicts. According to Ekaterina Zaharieva, the only thing the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry and the Bulgarian State have done is to give them legal advice and provide them with lawyers who speak Bulgarian. This is unacceptable to me! Thank God Greece is still a European country, but this is a problem that is absolutely comparable and can become the problem with the nurses in Libya because some of them pulled doctors out of Libya in time and ours stayed there for 10 years. At the time, the foreign minister was different, but she explained to us that this was under their legislation, what we should do. The issue is very important and in this regard I ask you to apply art. 106, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister who has not responded within the legal period, is obliged to appear in person to the National Assembly within 10 days and to give an explanation for the failure to comply with his obligation. 106 of the Rules and call Ekaterina Zaharieva. I hope it finally turns out he can do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. You were insistent, and you were also correct in explaining the reason. I have written explanations for the absence of ministers. Minister Zaharieva is indeed abroad. She is in Morocco with the Prime Minister, but your proposal will be submitted for an urgent response under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished guests of the balcony, dear Minister! I would like to add my colleague Kutev, who drew attention to the absence of the foreign minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva. I am joining what he said and I am paying attention to you that the Deputy Prime Minister has not answered any questions for three weeks now. I have also placed one that I consider extremely important and even already there is a petition by Bulgarian citizens who are located in the country. Next week will be one month since we have raised the question, and for these people, the deadline of a month is too much time, because their problem is very serious and severe. The colleague quotes the Law and what the Minister should do about a 10-day period within which he should answer to the National Assembly. Thank you for giving me the opportunity for a procedure and I pay attention to you calling Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u110	Thank you. Mr. Kutev suggested the procedure for this to happen. We'll meet your demands. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The first question to the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov is from the MP Georgi Mihailov. It refers to another incident with a man bitten by a pet dog. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, two weeks ago this issue has been postponed due to your absence. Once again we have witnessed an accident, it is also a precedent because we have witnessed several times this year many tragic incidents with bites from dogs of Bulgarian citizens. There was also a case that ended with a fatal outcome, and a child. We have discussed this matter with your predecessor. We know the explanation that the rules of public order are determined by Sofia Municipality that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is responsible for dogs, but they absolutely do not satisfy the public, which becomes a witness literally of lawlessness by the owners of the so-called pets, despite the fact that the zoo was created. This was one of Mr. Radev's explanations before you. The Ministry of Interior is called upon to observe the implementation of all the provisions of the law, respectively their infringement, and to prevent them or participate in their authorisation, but this is not seen by our public. My question to you specifically because you are probably familiar with all these cases: what is the attitude as a principal of the Ministry to this serious public problem? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u112	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with art. 178 of the Veterinary Activity Act, mayors of municipalities, districts and town halls organize the control of compliance with requirements for pet owners related to cleanliness and safety for people or other animals. In accordance with art. 472, para. 4 of the Act on Veterinary Practice, infringements relating to non-exercise control of domestic animals, where there is no crime, shall be established by acts drawn up by inspectors from municipalities and regions. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the respective mayors. In accordance with art. 22, para. 2 of the Ordinance on the acquisition, possession and keeping of domestic animals, pets "dogs and cats," in the territory of Sofia Municipality control bodies within the meaning of the Ordinance are the mayor of Sofia Municipality or officials authorised by him. Article 20 of the same Regulation: In the case of a registered written alert for the case of an attack by a dog, with a known owner or an address of breeding against a person or another animal, an on-the-spot check shall be carried out by representatives of a mobile group within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 9 of the Additional Provisions of the Ordinance, which proceed according to the requirements of the Law on Veterinary Practice and the Law on the Protection of Animals. The mobile group is a committee formed by order of the mayor of the area concerned, which includes representatives of the region, the Sofia Inspectorate, the Regional Directorate for Food Safety, the Municipal Police and a representative of the NGOs. In accordance with art. 21 of the same regulation, in the case of a written alert for assault and injury caused by a domestic dog with an unknown owner or with an unknown address of cultivation, the regional administration shall be requested to assist in establishing the address and owner of the Regional Food Safety Directorate and the relevant Regional Police Management. After establishment of the address and the owner shall proceed in accordance with the order of art. 20 of the Ordinance. The manifestation of particular cruelty to animals, as well as non-exercise animal control, are socially dangerous acts and, as such, with changes to the Penal Code of 27 May 2011, have been declared criminal. In accordance with art. 325c, para. 1 of the Penal Code, which does not care enough for a spinal animal under his supervision, resulting in an average or severe bodily injury to a person, is punishable by imprisonment up to three years or probation and a fine of up to five thousand. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u115	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Practically the same answer we received in the previous discussion with your predecessor, but it does not satisfy the Bulgarian citizens in any way, as everyone who walks in the capital city, all cities and settlements in the country is clearly aware that the Public Order Ordinance, which you have quoted, is not respected at all by the owners of dogs, who walk without muzzles, and without leashes, which undoubtedly creates a prerequisite for what you were finally quoting as part of the Penal Code. My question to you is: as Home Minister, do you not think that the Ministry of Interior should exercise its influence on Sofia Municipality and all other municipalities of the country to finally start following these rules? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u116	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within the limits set out in art. 6, para. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior the following measures are taken to counter this type of crime: First, a ministerial order from 2014 has established a procedure for immediate response by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior when receiving a signal to organize or participate in animal fighting, to show cruelty to vertebrate animals and to prevent the care of a spinal animal resulting in bodily injury or death of a person. Second, a total of 433 employees with operational functions and investigative police officers have been designated for carrying out checks and investigations on the offences committed by the NKC in the implementation of a Ministerial Order of 2015. Third, by letter dated 2015 it was ordered by the directors of the SDVR and the ODMI to establish the necessary organisation to conduct joint trainings between investigating authorities and police authorities with operational functions from the Ministry of Interior, representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the Regional Directorates for Food Safety. The aim is to ensure the necessary coordination and timely work until a new regulation on the order and way of interaction between the authorities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Ministry of Interior is adopted. The same letter ordered the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Pernik, Razgrad, Ruse, Targovishte and Shumen to initiate meetings with representatives of the Regional Directorates of Food Safety to discuss the possibilities for the inclusion of veterinarians as experts in the lists under Ordinance No 2 of 29 July 2015 on the entry, qualification and remuneration of property persons. Meetings and trainings with representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the Regional Directorates for Food Safety are organized and solved the problem of experts. In July 2018, two officials from the Ministry of Interior passed five days of training in the Netherlands, as it turned out to be the state that best developed this type of police activity in order to exchange experience and good practices, the organisation of work of the Dutch zoopolitan was the subject of the training. In the fifth place, at the initiative of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior, with the assistance of the Thracian University in the town of Stara Zagora in 2019 is planned training for the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Interior, who are involved in investigating crimes under art. 325a and 325c of the Penal Code. As statistics, since the beginning of 2017 a total of 100 pre-trial proceedings for crimes under art. 325c of the Penal Code. Regarding the incident in the city of Sofia, Ovcha district bought on 18 November 2018, where a pet dog, from the pit bull breed, bit a man, in the sixth district management at the Sofia Directorate of Interior around 12.30 was received a signal from the victim. During the verification of the case, the owner of the pit bull has been identified and information has been taken out of the same information and a warning protocol has been drawn up for him under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] A notification has been prepared to the mayor of the district of Ovcha, who is a buyer of Sofia Municipality. The work on the case continues in the Sixth District Management of the SDVR. After completion of the verification, the materials will be sent by competence to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Vasil Antonov. Mr. Antonov asks a question about providing funds to restore a road facility from PPN 1188, connecting the town of Cherven Bryag with the village of Gornik, Pleven district. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister Marinov! I also address you as Chairman of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance. On 23 October 2018, a partial disaster situation was announced in the municipality of Cherven Bryag due to the construction of a bridge on the municipality road 1188, connecting Cherven Bryag with the village of Gornik and other settlements. This is currently the only road connection of the municipal center with the settlements on the other side of the river Iskar due to the continuing rehabilitation of Republican road III-306 with the construction of a new bridge facility at the village of Chomakovtsi. The problem was socially significant, it was also given on a number of television stations the morning excitement, with a picture of the passing through the bridge, the painful crossings of teachers, students, children and sick people. If it wasn't for this problem, there wouldn't be, I guess, a lot of attention to pay. My main question to you in this regard is: within what deadlines can funds be provided to restore the road facility on road 1188, connecting Red Beach with the village of Gornik?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u120	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 16 November this year, the mayor of Cherven bryag municipality submitted to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers a request for funding for an amount of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. £930. for the following sites: first, construction of approaches to a temporary bridge in the village of Chomakovtsi; second, emergency temporary tour through the grounds of the village of Reselets and the village of Gornik; third, construction of a temporary tour through the lands of the village of Koynare and the village of Dentsi; fourth, emergency repair and strengthening of a road bridge over the river Iskar on road 1188 town of Cherven Bryag. In this regard, at a meeting held on 29 November 2018, the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers adopted a decision proposing, for approval by the Council of Ministers, a comprehensive financing of temporary constructions and partial financing for stage reconstruction of the bridge. In case of an accelerated procedure for the approval of the Commission's proposals by the Council of Ministers, funds can be made available to the municipality of Cherven Bryag this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u122	Thank you. Mr. Antonov has the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Marinov, thank you for your quick and competent response. Of course, the situation is very critical, and we have seen for ourselves all of us, the whole country, what is happening. It should not be in another situation or in such situations. However, we rely on quick assistance and rapid provision of funds, even more in the talks with Minister Goranov he made the commitment, if necessary, to be able to support the Commission itself in the absence of funding opportunities by the end of the year. What I'm hearing is satisfying. For all in the municipality of Cherven Bryag, also in the district of Pleven, the road is, of course, very important because it is a link with those who are passing from the highway to the Northwest, to the ferry, to the bridge Vidin, to the other settlements, but mostly the population that lives, which is moving every day for work and provides its livelihood in this area. Once again, thank you for your competence and rapid intervention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u124	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. The next question is from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the actions of the Ministry of Interior during civil protests on the territory of the country in November 2018. This is how the issue was formulated. It will be specified by the people representative Ivan Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We have all seen the discontent expressed in November by Bulgarian citizens in terms of both different policies and high fuel prices, low incomes, the increase in taxes that took place throughout the country. My question is: what are the actions that the Ministry of Interior took during and before and after these protests took place? Are all the actions taken by the Ministry of Interior within the framework of the law, within the framework of the rules and regulations established by internal agencies? Have the Ministry of Interior employees not exceeded their rights, or was it all within the framework of the law? My question is dictated because there were dozens of signals that came to me as a MP. Also media leaked a number of information about clashes between representatives of the Ministry of Interior and protesting citizens. The issue is extremely important because these are not the first such cases in the country, but for the first time we are getting information that there have been clashes between officials and protesters citizens. Minister, I ask you to answer us if everything that happened during these protests was within the framework of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In November on the protest of the mothers of children with disabilities and the subsequent civil protests against the high fuel prices began the conduct of regulated and unregulated protest actions throughout the country. In this regard, the Ministry of Interior has established an organisation to ensure security and public order in the course of the protests. The activity of securing the mass events by police authorities is regulated in Instruction No 8-121-H-988 of 12 December 2014 concerning the provision of public policy in the conduct of events promulgated in the State Gazette, p. 106 of 23 December 2014, as amended and supplemented by the State Gazette, No. 63 of 18 August 2015 The following actions shall be taken in entering information on the upcoming event: determining the scale and degree of risk of the event by assessing the risk of low or high risk, including a complex of recruitment, aggregation and analysis events relevant to the conduct of the mass event. The protection of public order in the conduct of mass events shall be carried out by the bodies of the Security Police in the District Directorates of the Ministry of Interior upon receipt of information about their conduct or upon written request of the organizer. The general management of the forces and means involved in the public policy activities in the conduct of events shall be carried out by the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, on whose territory the event is held. In order to protect public policy and security in the conduct of high-risk events, a specialised police operation shall be carried out and a plan shall be established by the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, whose territory the event is being held. Effective information exchange between the structures of the Ministry of Interior shall be carried out in the event of mass events that are at risk of misconduct, and the information received shall be made available immediately to the respective regional departments of the Ministry of Interior and to the Directorate General for National Police for taking measures to prevent any wrongdoing in their territory. For the same protests, where police authorities have found violations of public order, the legal attitude has also been taken, and administrative case files have been drawn up for the offences committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a cue and attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am a Member of the National Assembly since 2013 and have memories of other mass protests being held. You were the director of the SDR back then. As I recall, during these mass protests there were no such cases, and no questions were asked whether there was violence on protesters citizens. You will say if then there were writing acts, warnings, were there direct clashes with the police with physical violence, something that stands out today in the foreground. My question is whether this is not a specific reaction of power to repression against protesters, because we have data from the media and from Facebook pages, published footage, videos of how violence is being exercised on protesters in the center of Sofia on Orlov Bridge and on the border where blockades were made, and on protesters in Pernik. Here I have a ticket from a protester with a fine. [[shows a ticket]] , where it says that it is a traffic participant, who creates obstacles to traffic, as by means of roadblocks the road in order to prevent normal traffic on it. I don't recall anything like this happening in previous times of protest. Please answer us after all whether the Ministry of Interior apparatus is not used in order to suppress civil discontent? Because this largely violates the citizens' trust in this institution that you are currently representing? You come from the Ministry of Interior, you have professionally run this office and tell us the difference between 2014 when it was typical to hug policemen with protesters, and now " 2018" when policemen exercise violence and write acts with warning and tickets for expressing their views, their civil rights to protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you can add your answer to the duplicate time and give further explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u131	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to assure you that wherever administratively and not only that, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, only within the framework of the law and the powers of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. As a fact, where the events were regulated, there are no violations under the law and therefore no relations have been taken. On the contrary, police forces have done everything possible to get these events under good public order and not allow provocations because there have been such events. With regard to the issue concerning the past period of the activities of the Ministry of Interior, it concerns me personally, as I was then in such a position that I was directly involved in the security of these mass events. I can confirm you and this is evident from the documents that, in the case of gross violations of public order, the relevant attitude has always been taken under the authority of the Ministry of Interior, drawing up the relevant administrative and criminal files. I assure you that where the law is respected, the Ministry of Interior does not exceed its powers over the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. We come to the next question, which is again asked by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, about the police presence of the events of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u133	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today we continue with the topic of police presence, only here in another aspect. Dear Minister, our parliamentary group is meeting with citizens in the country. On 21 November 2018, these were carried out on the territory of Yambol District, where I personally attended, so I would very much like to receive a personal response as to why this thing happened? When our representative, including the chairman of our party, and the parliamentary group, visited several settlements -- Malko Sharkovo, Golyamo Sharkovo, Bolyarovo, Yambol, and I was a witness -- was met by police patrols. The people in places were also surprised because they had never seen practically so many policemen in one place, and not in connection with reports of robberies, thefts and so on, but because of the presence of representatives of political power. Our question is: on what authority, on what basis has all these meetings of the MPs from the Bulgarian National Assembly decided to have an intensive police presence, including the meeting in Yambol? I was also in Elhovo, and there was a police presence there too. The information we received from the citizens is that inside the theater where the meeting took place, policemen came in to ask them why they were there, what is done? I want you to answer us on what grounds was this police presence? Who said that? You are aware that under the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifests, the organizers of such meetings submit a request to the police. In this case, we do not have any information about such requests being submitted to the Ministry of Interior officials...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u134	The weather, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u135	...and protect these events, so I ask for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u136	Thank you. Minister Marinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u137	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The activities of securing security and safeguarding public order in the conduct of mass events by the police authorities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as I said in the previous reply, were regulated in the Public Order Instruction in the conduct of events. Upon receipt of information about the upcoming event, actions shall be taken to determine the scale and degree of risk of the event by assessing the risk The risk assessment process shall include a set of recruitment, aggregation and analysis events relevant to the conduct of the mass event. The public policy activities in the conduct of events shall be organised by the structures of the Security Police in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the DVR upon receipt of information from different sources for their conduct or at the written request of the organizer. The general management of the forces and means involved in the public policy activities in the conduct of events shall be carried out by the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, on whose territory the event is held. By letters of reference of the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police, it is instructed the directors of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior in the country to submit information on upcoming mass events in order to systematize and create an organization and coordination to improve the activities of the protection of public policy and security in the event of mass events of a different nature. The National Police Directorate-General received a reference on the security activities carried out by officers of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Yambol, on 21 November 2018 to ensure the public order of the territory served by the District Department Yambol, and the regional management of Elhovo. It states that information has been received from the public communications placed in various localities of Yambol region for planned meetings of MPs with the public. On the basis of the above instruction, the Head of the Regional Management "Elhovo" has taken action to ensure security and protection of public order according to the information received. Analogical actions have also been taken by the Head of the District Department "Yambol." The security and protection of public order is expressed in a police presence by territorial police officers and patrol officers. These are policemen who wear, in brackets to say, uniform service, without attracting additional forces and funds from other regional governments or structures of the Ministry of Interior. In the course of ensuring the security of the events, no co-operation has been requested by the police authorities and no public policy violations have been detected. [[The President gives a signal that time has run out.]] With regard to the surprise of the citizens of the police presence, we have been doing our best for two years to strengthen the police presence. From many places we get signals from citizens that they see that there is a police presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u139	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Frankly, I'm shocked by what I've heard. I don't know if you understand what you just gave us as information. First of all, I was under the impression that you treat BSP meetings with your constituents as mass events with civil unrest. Secondly, this happens without the knowledge and application of the organizers of these events. Thus, it was not clear who the applicant was, who ordered the employees of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior to attend these events. What are they doing in people's homes, what are they doing during the events we organize? Mr. Marinov, I have traveled dozens of cities across the country in different areas.. I am talking about Pernik, I am talking about Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Silistren and everywhere else in the country, we have not seen anything like this. Is this the way to interpret BSP with its MPs? Please explain it to us because otherwise we are witnessing a drastic violation of civil rights. Are we already being followed? Are there orders to follow the MPs? Is the chairman of the parliamentary group to be followed? How did you know where the meetings would be? Who gave you this information and why were we under surveillance there? Is this going to happen from now on? Can I tell you from now on: Monday will be the meeting in Shumen, perhaps there to expect a more serious police presence? Then followed Lovech and Pleven there perhaps an even greater police presence?! I'm really surprised at the information you brought out here. After all, will this already be a practice of the Ministry of Interior where we go as MPs, to feel protected or persecuted? That's what I want you to explain to us because our concerns are extremely serious. This is the first time this has happened, for the first time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u141	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In fact, the information I provided shows that nothing has happened other than the daily activity of police officers there, as I pointed out that no additional force was given there. Police officers carried out their activities in public, were not indoors and were visible to the whole society. It is estimated that there is no need to prepare a plan for a specialized operation, as there is no risk event.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u142	Who gave us information on where we'd be?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u143	These are the district inspectors serving these territories daily, and being in the square in public does not mean that additional measures have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We'll continue with the next question. He is one of the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Dimitar Stoyanov regarding the state of the engineering obstruction facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey. Please, Mr. Yankov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u145	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and Mr. Dimitar Stoyanov have tabled a question about the state of the engineering obstruction facility along the border with Turkey. First of all, I would like to point out that border police work in a very specific environment. The security of the state border by lawbreakers, apart from specific, is also dangerous. Our state border with the Republic of Turkey has difficult access to certain places, the terrain is complex, and the weather conditions in many cases make it difficult for employees of the Directorate General to act. For the performance of their duties and for the prevention of smugglers and illegal immigrants in particular in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the employees are assisted by an engineering obstruction facility secured by the necessary adjoining roads. In this regard, the specific question to you, Minister, is: what is the state of the engineering obstruction facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey and the adjoining roads? What organisation was set up to identify and eliminate the faulty integrity of the facility and roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Minister Marinov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u147	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In 2017, a temporary obstruction facility was built along the Bulgarian-Turkish border with a total length of more than 235 km. Nearly 30 km from the facility, but without an adjoining road, are built by the Bulgarian army. The remaining over 205 km are built by the district governors of the districts of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas, who are entrusted with the activities of the guarantee maintenance. The Ministry of Interior, respectively the Border Police Directorate General, has no obligation to maintain the temporary obstruction and control of this activity. Within the limits of their obligations carried out in the immediate vicinity of the temporary obstruction facility, the staff of the Border Police Directorate General shall carry out controls regarding its integrity and report immediately to any established case of damage to the construction and the adjoining road. The Border Police Directorate General shall officially inform the district governor in whose territory damage has been identified to take measures to remedy the damage found in the specified order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, come in, you have the opportunity to make a reply and ask specific questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u149	Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! My line is related to this. The reason to ask this question is the multitude of signals from people living in the border area, for fallen trees on the fence itself due to storms and so on, for landslides that have destroyed some of the adjacent roads, which is why border guards can't run this impeding facility, let's call it the city. In this case, we are more interested in: what organization do border guards create in these places, which, as a result of such natural cataclysms, have become possible for immigrants and others? This represents more interest. How do you guard the part where the obstruction is broken?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u150	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u151	Mr. Stoyanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I put the information in the answer. I will add that the integrity of the facility has been violated and restored, as a result of natural disasters and accidents, repeatedly. By the time it is recovered, according to the damage done, the Border Police Directorate General shall take action to secure the area, which shall include the use, if it is not possible, of mobile teams and of pedestrian border patrols, and the use of the relevant technical means for thermal and video surveillance of the affected area, so as not to allow weakness in the entire border area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov concerning an integrated security system at the border with the Republic of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u153	Dear Madam President, dear Minister of the Interior! In accordance with art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have tabled a question concerning the integrated security system at the border with the Republic of Turkey. The state border along the Republic of Turkey is extremely critical and can be monitored from a distance. This was achieved in 2012 with the construction of 58 km from the Bulgarian-Turkish border, which is guarded by modern technologies. The integrated system itself includes facilities: local coordination centre, regional coordination centre, fixed technical surveillance posts, perimeter alarm system, mobile technical monitoring posts, communication network, management and control software. With just a few operators working shifts in the coordination centres, a large section of the Bulgarian-Turkish border is monitored and controlled in real time, of course, where the integrated system is built. In this regard, along the entire border as foreseen, not only piloted for the first 58 kilometres and the EU funds provided, built and functioning is the integrated border guard system with the Republic of Turkey? What is the organisation of the work of the Directorate-General for Border Police (CPOL) for the areas in which there is no or no work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u154	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Dear Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u155	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! An integrated monitoring system has been built and actively used to increase efficiency in border surveillance along the border with the Republic of Turkey. The system is built in two phases, currently a third phase is being built. The first phase is located in the section of the state border between the Border Control Point Funds are provided under the Internal Security Fund for the out-of-warranty maintenance of the part of the integrated surveillance system from the border crossing "Captain Andreevo" to the border crossing "Lesovo". Public procurement is to be carried out. The second phase is located in the area between the border crossings of Lesovo to the mouth of Rezovska on separate sections and directions from the state border. This part is in working order and is actively used in border surveillance. For the post-warranty maintenance of this part of the integrated surveillance system, funds are provided by the Internal Security Fund and a public procurement is to be carried out. A contract for the extension of the integrated monitoring system along the Bulgarian-Turkish border is currently being implemented. This third phase includes the construction of sensor lines along the Bulgarian-Turkish border in the sections not covered by already existing perimeter alarm and security systems from the established monitoring system............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This project will be implemented by means of funds under the Internal Security Fund and will ensure the monitoring of new 59 km from the state border. The integrated border surveillance system with the Republic of Turkey will further integrate five new fixed technical surveillance posts, which are built on other projects. As regards the organisation of work for areas not covered by elements of the integrated surveillance system or those in which equipment failure has been detected, mobile surveillance systems shall be used to secure border surveillance. During the state border in depth of the border zone, flights are carried out with helicopters of the Special Air Surveillance Unit of the General Directorate of Border Police, which are equipped with surveillance systems. Border-police units provided with handheld thermal imaging cameras, portable surveillance systems and night vision instruments shall be broadcast. Active support in the border surveillance of the Bulgarian-Turkish border is also provided by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) under the conditions of joint operations, flexible and operational activities along the south-eastern borders, where forces and funds from other Member States are seconded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u157	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, you have a heavy legacy from your predecessor. I have also asked him this question, and it is short and needs a correct specific answer: when will this integrated security system be built? The advantages of this system are, firstly, increasing productivity; monitoring a large part of the border through operators in control centres; reliability, the ability to overlap individual functional units so that there are no meters that are not observed; effectiveness This is extremely necessary because the integrated surveillance system provides border police with the necessary modern technical means to carry out their duties, enabling them to monitor and control in real time, under any weather conditions, the built-up section. Mr. Minister, set a time limit within which this integrated system will work, so that the Bulgarian society is calm and that if there is a possible threat of breach of the integrity of the facility, an opportunity is built for you to react in a timely manner, optimizing the numerical composition, and no more questions to be raised by citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Minister Marinov? You don't want a doppelganger. Allow me to thank Mr. Mladen Marinov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He will answer, first of all, a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev on the development of the sector of swine farming in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My question is related to the development of the sector of swine farming in Bulgaria. According to the Agrarian Report 2017 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, it is said that the pig sector in the country is well structured and specialized, which is a prerequisite for sustainable and stable development. In 2016, the trend of concentration of pigs kept in the country continued in fewer numbers by 25%, weeded farms contributing to higher production efficiency, i.e. we have one concentration of production. By the end of the year, a total of 616 000 pigs were grown in the country. A significant annual reduction was registered on small farms with one to nine animals by 25% in terms of number of holdings; by 18.9% in the number of pigs kept therein. These holdings produce meat mainly for their own consumption and are most seriously affected by the gradual deterioration of the population's age structure in rural areas. I will give here an example in neighbouring Romania what policy they have regarding the development of villages. There the state finances for each family one pig and that is why the villages in Romania are alive, there is life in them, there is agricultural activity. That is why I have set out for example the people of the Vidin region who go to live in Romania and say that times are better lived. In fact, we come across many places in Bulgaria now by circling around, presenting a vision for Bulgaria, that there are villages in which there is not even a single pig or cow. Nearly 92% of all pigs in the country are kept on holdings of 1000 animals and more at 90% in 2015, i.e. concentration. In 2016, pig farming continued to focus mainly in three regions of the country: these are North Central, North East and South East. In a few moments, colleagues from Shumen and Silistra will ask a question about the Northeastern region. The African plague is entering the country. You know about a month ago what happened in the Kavarna area with the destruction. What is quoted in the concentration report, imagine that we need to destroy this concentration of pigs throughout the Northeast region. What are we talking about? For what sustainable and stable sector? In 2016 production...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u160	Time's up, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u161	...the amount of pork is 73,000. the tone. In this regard, Mr. Minister: what is the trend and policy of development of the sector of swine farming in Bulgaria against the countries of the Balkans and the countries of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u162	Thank you. Minister Porozhanov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u163	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, a little conflicting from the point of view of the domestic court and the African swine fever. We're not going to debate this from the stands, maybe separately. Some information about pig farming. It is a tradition industry where sustainable development has been observed over the past few years. In the last three years, the economic indicators for pig farming have shown stability with a trend in the growth of the final production created by it. According to preliminary data from the National Statistical Institute for 2017 the value of the final production of the sector amounted to 293 million. BGN, as compared to 2016 increased by 1% and compared to 2015. ..by 6%. The main feature of the sector is its industrial character. The farming processes are mostly covered in it. The indicator is that in 61 industrial pig farms 92.7% of the total number of pigs in the country are grown. According to the data of the Department of Agrostatistics (Agrostatistics) on 1 November 2017, the number of pig farms where 200 and more female breeding pigs are kept, which represent the main production unit, increased by 11%. In these sites 89% of female breeding pigs are grown in the country. Geographic pig farming is concentrated in three regions of the country "North Central, North East and South East," as a prerequisite for this is the existence of a very good raw material base and large arable areas guaranteeing the feeding of animals. Most of the large pig farms have a closed production cycle, having their own feed production and storage facilities. Evidence of the policy in the sector and the upward trend in its development are the data on the increasing number of fatted and slaughtered pigs in slaughterhouses and holdings in Bulgaria. According to Eurostat, they increase annually, with the pigs slaughtered in total in 2017 by 5,8% more than in 2015. For the first seven months of 2018, the pigs slaughtered in Bulgaria are by 7,8% more than in the same period of 2017. Since 2010, there has been a clear trend towards an increase in pig meat obtained in slaughterhouses, which last year is 17.6% more than 2015 and, respectively, 9% more compared to 2016. There is also a classification of pig carcasses on the Community scale (S)EUROP in our country. In 2017, the classified carcasses were 14% more than in 2016. According to data from the European Meat Market Observatory, the average price of this class of Bulgarian pork carcass meat for September 2017 was 208 euro per 100 kg and was 25% higher than the average price of 1165 euros for the Community countries. I've got a long way to go as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u164	In the back, perhaps you could supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u165	In addition, you know that the support program is running. Supporting the industrial livestock sectors of poultry farming and pig farming is through animal welfare. 30 million this year. lv. are presented and provided according to the notification of the aid and the indicators to be fulfilled as aid to the pig sector. I'll give you some extras in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that you weren't while we were discussing the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture on these matters. We could have discussed some of the policies, as I claim that Bulgaria has a wrong agricultural policy. Specially in the sector of swine farming is also wrong policy. Animal farming is an old traditional livelihood of the Bulgarian population. In pig farming in Bulgaria the hybrid breeds have a significant advantage with a specific purpose for meat and fat. We have a very good breed of white Bulgarian pig. I made an example of the French statesmen when we discussed the budget. They state that when they visit the shops and detect the presence of more than 10% of imported food products, they start to worry and take urgent measures to increase national production. In recent years, Bulgaria has lost more than 10 billion. EUR precisely from lack of added value and 500 000 jobs. We have become a donor of the primary production of cereals. We've discussed this with you. Since we are talking about the sector of swine farming in Bulgaria, I can safely quote Associate Professor Vato Hristov, who talks about the requiem of pig farming in Bulgaria. Since 1990, production in the sector has been returned to the level of the 40s of the last century. Such destruction has no analogue in any of the former socialist countries. Pork meat in the world grew by 2.8% annually and in Bulgaria decreased by 26.8%. And what kind of pig farming did we have before 1989?! It's top of the line at the end of 1989. 4 392,000 pigs, and today 616 000; 413 000 tonnes of pig meat, carcase weight, without the weight, and today there are 73,000 tonnes of pig meat, 7.5 times less. Each person of the nearly 9 million population then produced almost 47 kg of meat, from which we consumed 46 kg. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Two more sentences, Mr. Chairman. Today, unfortunately, we import over 100,000 tonnes of pork. By the way, last week I was in Zagreb and then Phil Hogan, the Commissioner for Agriculture, gave one, I would say, a recommendation to the member states on national strategic plans: each country to define its agricultural policy. Here I believe that in the new National Strategic Plan, the sector of swine farming must lie down and have a solid place in the development of the agricultural sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u168	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u169	Thank you. It's a very short addition. The future of pig farming worldwide is in industrial pig farming. There's no way we can bring back the mass viewing of animals in the villages. Seventy-five percent of pigs in domestic courtyards are viewed in Romania. Yes, Romania is an example of this, but Romania is currently suffering massively precisely because of African swine fever, because there is no biosecurity in domestic courtyards, there is no possibility that they can be protected from the spread of the disease. It is no coincidence that there is a call, especially in the risk areas and in the areas around industrial farms, a 10 and 20km zone, not to look at domestic pigs, so that there are no risks to industrial farms. We'll talk about it in the next question. I will not open the subject, which will be on the second question, although it is identical to the one I answered last week, but if I have to comment on it again. Don't worry! The strategic plan will lay down all priorities and will be linked to a debate with the whole sector. There's no way we can get pig farming back, like I said, industrials will continue to be that way, and as such, it has a future. It's like this everywhere. I will not comment on how our citizens or peasants went to live in Romania so they could look at a pig. That sounds pretty heartbreaking to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev about the prevention policy for overcoming African plague and other diseases carried by wild animals. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Obviously, today we are on the subject of animal diseases, especially pigs, whether domestic or wild. I was under the impression that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests does not know that there is such a disease in Bulgaria or that it does not exist in our territory. Dear Minister, I did my homework and did my research, as I am not a specialist on this topic, I did not graduate as a veterinarian. I have a doctoral dissertation on another topic, but I did my homework, at least out of scientific curiosity. According to one training material of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which is distributed among the Bulgarian hunters, there are several types of diseases that are spread by game or wild animals. These are classical swine fever, African swine fever, trichinepossa,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The main causes, especially, of the disease that we are most interested in right now, and we want to focus on it our questioning of the African swine fever, the main sources of the virus are blood, tissues, secretions of sick and dead animals, animals that have survived and recovered from the infection, and indirectly by feeding waste containing contaminated pigmeat and meat products. It is explicitly noted that the African swine fever virus has been resistant for three to six months in raw local products; biological vectors such as ticks, environments; I am talking about virus-contaminated materials and surfaces. That means how serious this disease is. I'm not making any assumptions that others aren't so serious, but especially this is extremely serious. In this case, we are interested in what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for prevention and overcoming African swine fever and other diseases that I have mentioned already. If I missed one, you'd fix me. We are particularly interested in what prevention is and possibly what action you will take if there is an epidemic of this disease, because in our country, after Romania, and in other countries neighbouring Romania, this disease has passed. The consequences are extremely severe, and as I recall, there are already several such cases on the territory of Bulgaria. The concern is both from the pork producers, both my colleague Georgiev before me spoke and from the hunters who should have a decisive role during the implementation of the measures that should prevent such an event, and those who should then deal with the decontaminating of these terrains. I read to you for a reason what the carriers are and how the remaining healthy animals can be infected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u173	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, dear Mr. Mirchev! I'm surprised you're making findings that the Ministry isn't working on it or that you don't know what it's doing, that we haven't found this disease. If you were a little more interested in time, as I told you at the previous parliamentary control, I had the exact same question. It's a very serious subject! It's a very serious disease! We know that very well. There's a lot of sources. In any way the disease can reach, including through infected animals, through products from infected animals. One of the cases in Braila, when 160,000 industrial animals were shot up on three neighbouring farms with one owner, on one day, it was from one source. And the source must have been water, contaminated water. It wasn't a coincidence that we started right now... In Romania, the disease stood at the Hungarian-Romanian border last year, there was no movement this way. Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, all the northern neighbours up, about Poland I'm not talking about, the Czech Republic is partially infected, the Baltic States. The moment the tourist flow of Moldovans and Ukrainians started with cars, of course, and the trucks crossing the border, Romania was on fire. It was kindled because the Danube Delta around Tundzha is a reserve there, they had no right to carry out any action and until they were asked to do something, it was burning all over the country. It was kindled because there, as Mr. Georgiev said, whom I very much respect, almost every family is watching domestic animals. Currently in Romania we have over 400,000 destroyed animals both in industrial farms and domestic animals and wild animals. Until recently it was over 40%, I didn't look at any last reference, but I guess half of Romania is already infected by the disease. It is no coincidence that we put the first report in an operational meeting at the end of May, in which we presented the overall picture of the economic losses that would be assumed. The disease is not zoonosis, the disease brings economic losses. When I say zoonosis, I only explain to viewers, it cannot bring diseases to people even if raw raw meat is eaten raw, but raw meat can spread the disease. In the context of the serious problem, we have taken all preventive action taken by other countries, starting with actions along the border. You know that all border crossings have been restored and with the help of our border police officers, all kinds of pig meat products that tourists who like to be in homes, in accommodations, love to wear so that they can eat them. Products were seized in freezers and destroyed accordingly. These 61, 62 industrial farms have been thoroughly examined in terms of their biosecurity measures. Yeah, they're very worried. Personally, I have had three meetings - two of them in Silistra, one in Sofia, other meetings have been held continuously at the Food Agency with prescriptions where there is a problem to be removed. We did the fence for a reason. If the fence had not been made, the movement of farm animals, of infected animals that are wild pigs would have been free and they would have entered freely. The fence itself, I understand that you are skeptics, but the fence itself was made just before the first case came to Silistra 600 meters into a village. And at the moment we have two cases of feral pigs, one of them, as you know, is near Kynarja, was immediately announced. Two pigs were found there. We looked at the entire 20km zone with foresters and hunters to see if there were any other animals, but so far there have been no findings. The second case of wild pigs was in a fence around Kavarna and Balchik. The pigs were more than twenty, there were killed pigs from a point of view not to spread the disease. The first one we had on domestic animals, three cases we had in Tutrakans. I'm not going back to her. We've been debating her a lot. There were destroyed 87 animals in the home courtyards, from where the disease started, the owner himself was with three mother pigs, with a total of 9 animals, without being registered, with nothing, absolutely prohibited by law, especially when looking at animals for sale and breeding. The law allows petyards to look at animals that are grown for consumption. Of course, measures were taken relating to training of hunting groups how to take samples, to build pits. At the moment, samples for testing African swine fever shall be sent from each target animal. Be assured that in the context of the preventive actions we have carried out, I will not tell you that there is a headquarters at the Ministry with multiple gatherings; I will not say that there is another headquarters at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which is also critical, on the subject of African swine fever. We have also held several regional meetings of these headquarters, which are on the district level, you know, both in Dobrich and in Silistra, and in Varna, when it appeared in Tutrakantsi. We are well aware of the severity and danger of African swine fever, and I assure you that what could have been done as prevention has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mirchev, please come in for up to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u175	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As a MP from Silistra, first, I would like to say that the fence really had its positive effect. You yourself said that one of the vectors of the disease is the wild animals that can enter from Romania. In my opinion, however, the policy imposed by the Ministry is wrong and I will tell you why. Given that there is a territory for hunting with a full quarantine in the municipality of Kainardja this predisposes to an increase in the population of wild pigs. At the moment is the period when they are getting married, and most likely their population, due to the fact that there is no hunting, will double around March. The very fact that we have a very large population, if it appears and enters this disease across the border, will increase the risk of burning an epidemic throughout the whole area. In Silistra, only one producer of industrial pigs has over 50 thousand heads. This will be detrimental to the whole region, as pig farming is widespread. On the other hand, individual and group hunting, firstly, carry out some type of regulation in the forest itself and in the very place where wild pigs live and allow deep surveillance to be carried out. At the moment, in quarantine zones, there can be no full surveillance of whether or not this disease is present. From another point of view, over 200 pigs were killed in neighbouring areas and no disease was found there. Seven samples were taken from the affected territory itself in Kaynarja after 23 October, when the diseased pig of African swine fever was found, and no punctuation of this disease was found either. That is to say, the quarantine policy that you are imposing is wrong in my opinion, and the way this disease is not transferred is by reducing the population. So I'd like to ask you a question: first, the 40-day quarantine period is over, and will this quarantine be over? My second question is: how will hunters who have failed the hunting season be compensated because they pay their membership and fees, but because of a ban by the Ministry, they cannot actually go hunting? My last question is: if there is a mass epidemic on the territory of Silistren region or anywhere else in the country, what benefits do you provide for pig farmers? What will you do with the corpses at all, what is the policy of a possible epidemic when all animals must be killed? What will you do with this large amount of corpses, how will the state protect itself and treat them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, for the back, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u177	There are certain requirements for limiting hunting where there are established diseases. In the border area, hunting is allowed with a dog-free race. In the other five-mile zone, top border area to the other with a dog-free race. There is no way to lift the ban, given that right across the border, the entire area is already near Svishtov with a spread disease. Compensation for the hunters, I'm telling you: we don't predict. After all, hunting is not a mandatory activity. I guess these days we'll raise the ban on hunting around Tutrakans, since it's been three months. That's where the samples continue, we don't have any samples that show positive results. With regard to this, if the disease occurs, yes, it is quite serious. That's why we're trying to prevent this disease from happening. Industrial farms, they're from 10, 20, 30, as you said there are up to 50,000 animals. I didn't know there were 50,000, but apparently there are up to 50,000 animals. This is an extraordinary problem because the moment a farm gets sick, it means that animals one by one go away and they have to be destroyed. The guarantees are laid down in the Animal Treatment Act, which is the market value of the animals themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u178	What are you gonna do with the bodies?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's your attitude, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u180	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, I hope that, apart from my colleague Georgiev and you have respect or disrespect for us, I cannot understand what the line was. Just to point out, you said that this African swine fever disease is not zoonosis, it's zoonosis, it's not anthropozonosis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u181	It's Zoonosa. It's not anthropozonosis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u182	There's a health minister here, we have fellow doctors, I consulted with them. Whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u183	Check again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u184	Secondly, we are extremely dissatisfied with what we have heard, at all, with the way the state's policy is developing in this direction. Just to remind you that a few months ago, at your request, the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game was amended, in which we authorised you, as a minister, and whoever is after you, to allow extraordinary opportunities to change the hunting deadlines, and for one single purpose, to limit this spread of African hearing in pigs. Instead, the hunters should go and be able to limit the population of wild animals, which in this instruction that I read to you, it was issued by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for Hunters, that they should kill these animals, happens the opposite On the contrary, hunting is prohibited at the moment. Perhaps another source has been found, although this instruction states: "No vaccine has been developed for African swine fever. African swine fever is not treated. Prevention and control of potential outbreaks, hygiene measures, strict quarantine measures, destruction are still the best prevention and control measures. There is no working programme for the control and eradication of the disease. Maybe you should track down what's going on at the Ministry. Secondly, we have not received from you a clear answer as to what happens in the event of a mass extinction of animals in an epidemic. The Food Safety Agency closed down all the escorts, performed administrative racketeering on them, smashed them up, and Professor Bachvarova and I asked you a question and you answered that there are mobile elevators. Do you imagine in a mass extinction of pigs, God forbid, as my colleague said, only 50 000 in Silistrensko, what will these mobile insenerators do? How are these animals going to burn? I can't help but wonder. In the cases that have been established, your employees of the Ministry have buried these animals, dug holes and buried them, and at the same time it says here that this disease is spread from contaminated soil. I did my work in Provadia, you missed Bozveliyski, there was the first case, I don't know what it was for, it never became clear, but the animals they killed buried them. They were buried super shallow. Only the predators who...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u185	In Tutrakans, it was the first case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u186	In Provadiysko was the first case of African plague. I don't know what the reason was. Both in Tutrakan and in the area of Bozveliysko, the entire area was massacred.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u187	Don't lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u188	No, no, we're not lying, Minister. Don't blame yourself. That's why I only asked you about colleague Georgiev, do you have respect for others or have no respect for others? That's what it sounded like. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm telling you, this way, God forbid it happens, I don't know what you're gonna do. We'll turn this country into a mass graveyard. That's probably what's expected. Take measures, review the decisions of your services, open these escorts in order to at least prevent such cases in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Thank you, dear Minister. I would like to ask my fellow Members, however, to respect the following, to observe the time. At the request of Minister Tsacheva, with the consent of Minister Ananiev, there is only one question for her, we will change the order in relation to her official commitments. I apologize to everyone. Here's a question for you from Iglika Ivanova-Subeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers present! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, I would like to present to your attention a question regarding the project: Strengthening the legal and institutional capacity of the judiciary in the area of justice for children. It is a well-known fact that many minors, on one occasion or another, have to come into contact with the judiciary. Given their specific age and vulnerability to hearings, interrogations and the like, it is necessary to create an appropriate atmosphere to provide procedures that meet their needs. More efforts need to be made to protect their rights and legitimate interests, as well as to safeguard their fragile psyche. According to my observations, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria is making very serious efforts in this direction. One of these manifestations is the realization of the project "Strengthening the legal and institutional capacity of the judiciary in the field of justice for children" funded by the Bulgarian Swiss Cooperation Programme. In connection with the implementation of this project is my question to you, Mrs. Minister of Justice, namely: what are the results achieved in relation to the implementation of the project.. Strengthening the legal and institutional capacity of the judiciary in the field of justice for children, funded by the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme? Please also explain to the audience what function do the so-called blue rooms perform and what is their purpose?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Sabeva, Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister! On 30 September this year, the implementation of the project "Strengthening the legal and institutional capacity of the judiciary in the field of youth justice" was completed under the thematic fund "security" of the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, as you said, developing your question. In connection with the implementation of this project, several objectives have been implemented: an analysis has been drawn up of the system of justice for children and children in accordance with European and international standards; an assessment of the needs of the Youth Justice System has also been carried out in accordance with European and international standards. The activity was carried out jointly by representatives of NGOs, academic circles and mainly the International Institute for the Rights of the Child in Zion, Switzerland. Together with UNICEF experts, Bulgaria has implemented an analysis and assessment of the costs of introducing a reformed system of youth justice in Bulgaria. The report is a preliminary assessment of the effect of the envisaged major changes in the system of child justice on the costs of the institutions and social groups affected by the reform. What is specifically implemented within this project? The capacity of engagement in the field of child justice has been improved. One hundred and seven are judicial officers, judges, prosecutors, police experts, social workers, psychologists from the country who have gone through a targeted training course for working with underprivileged projects in three district courts. These are Varna, Plovdiv and Kozloduy, together with the respective district courts in Varna and in Plovdiv. In September this year there was also training of specialists in the hearing of children. Twenty magistrates, social workers, police officers from the cities of Dobrich, Razgrad, Smolyan, Haskovo, Lovech, Targovishte, Silistra and Kardzhali were trained on how to work with children and the use of so-called blue rooms. The project has a total of 12, built and equipped, and the purpose of these premises is precisely to have a sparing hearing in them, I would say acceptable, in view of the age limit of children, in interaction with the judiciary. This is not only about children who are in some way in conflict with the Law, but also in cases of civil cases as a result of a suspended marriage of parents, cases of parental rights to children in a close-to-home environment such as the arrangement of a single room where this sparing hearing of children takes place. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Time's up, I'll probably continue my answer in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u194	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, thank you for the comprehensive answer. It has definitely become clear that the Ministry of Justice is making serious efforts and working consistently to protect the rights and legitimate interests of those minors who have come into contact on one occasion or another with the judiciary, and it has become clear from what you have said that adequate protection has been provided in relation to their age characteristics and their fragile psyche. I express my satisfaction and admire the efforts of the Ministry of Justice in this regard. I believe that this will lead to improving the legal framework and ensuring due protection of the rights and legitimate interests of minors recognised by the Law and guaranteed by the latter. Thank you once again for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Will you have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Sabeva, Minister Ananiev! Indeed, the use of these 12 already in-house blue rooms shows the right direction in which a child's contacts with the judicial system should be made in the future. We all understand that, against the background of regional and other administrative structures with regard to courts, the number of these 12 rooms is extremely insufficient. This is implemented under this financial Bulgarian-Swiss mechanism, specifically on this programme, however, remains the great challenge and in other areas the state to conduct a consistent policy for the construction of such premises in dialogue and with the administrative heads of court chambers, together with the assistance of the Supreme Judicial Council, so as to be a reorganized room in these chambers. Firstly, where this is possible, but the great goal is the experience that we have gained in the implementation of this project and led by the results resulting from the use of these premises, to make it a universal situation for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. There are no more questions for you. Enjoy your work. Dear colleagues, we have five questions for Mr. Ananiev. I will ask you, if we respect the regulations as strictly as possible, we will be able to end it. The first question is from the MP Alexander Alexandrov on the report on the control activities of NHIF for the nine months of 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The implementation of effective control by the National Health Insurance Fund is directly related to the implementation of the envisaged priorities. Speaking to media, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund said he would pay serious attention to the control activities and ensure the functions of the controllers. In this regard, I would like to ask you: would you please inform us what is the report on the control activities of the NHIF for the nine months of 2018?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u199	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Alexandrov! The National Health Insurance Fund shall carry out a control activity in respect of contracts concluded with healthcare contractors in accordance with the requirements of the Health Insurance Act, the National Framework Contract and the methodological guidelines governing the control activity. The control is carried out in three directions: hospital care, outpatient medical and dental care and prescription and distribution of medicinal products. Hospital Medical Control. In the 9 months of 2018, a total of 5101 checks were carried out on contract partners for hospital medical care in 3891 checks carried out for the same period of 2017 or an increase of 31.1%. 24 452 clinical pathways, 9195 clinical procedures and 38 218 outpatient procedures have been checked. The percentage of checks completed with detected infringements shall be 24,3% of the total checks carried out. It is noticed that the number of checks with infringements detected in 2018 is less than 5% compared to 2017. There is also a reduction in checks with recovery amounts established. In general, the overall penalties and recovery amounts from medical institutions amount to 10 million. 68,000. lv. At 7 million. Nine hundred and sixty-four thousand. lv. for the same period of 2017. The most common violations found in carrying out checks in hospital care facilities are related to failure of diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, untraceable indicators with pathological abnormalities, non-treatment of accompanying diseases, unsaved criteria for dehospitalization and incorrect completion of medical documentation. For the reporting period, contracts under 51 clinical pathways have been partially terminated or cancelled. Control in outpatient medical and dental care. For the period 1 January to 30 September 2018, 9973 checks were carried out on performers of outpatient medical and dental aid. Violations have been reported in 888 inspections. Checks were carried out in 280 primary outpatient medical facilities with 287 doctors. The checks revealed violations in 251 doctors, representing more than 87% of the total checked. For the infringements found, penalties of 52 thousand are laid down. 200 leva. Up to 155,000. £650. For the 9 months of 2018, the checks carried out in relation to the number of contracts concluded by dental aid contractors were 68.6% on average for the country. There have been violations in 6111 and 4522 of the checks have been found to be recovery amounts. During the same period of 2017, 6105 infringements were detected and 4861 of the checks had recovery amounts which were established with the relevant documents. For the reporting period, 20 contracts with medical and dental aid contractors have been terminated due to a penalty for termination in force. If I have to, I'll keep at the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u201	Yeah. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, after the detailed data you have provided, I believe that the answer you have given is accurate and adequate, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u203	Thank you and I, the answer was really quite comprehensive. If you want to finish the numbers, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to proceed. Prescription and distribution of medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment. For the 9 months, a total of 1266 checks were carried out on the prescription of medicinal products for home treatment by the control bodies of the regional health insurance banks or together with the NHIF, with violations found in most of them and sanctions imposed accordingly. The control bodies in the RHIF and NHIF carried out a total of 2831 checks on the granting of medicinal products in pharmacies, with infringements detected in 1681 checks. 25 checks were carried out under veterans and military disability contracts and military casualties under the War Veterans Act, where 12 violations of individual contracts were found. Regular prescription and release checks and sanctions have led to a general reduction in the number of infringements, which is the main objective of control activities. The most common drug prescription violations are non-compliance with these prescription restrictions in different indications of Annex No 1 to the Positive Drug List, duplication of prescriptions within the time limit prescribed for the medicinal products for one ICBs, the International Classification of Diseases, the prescription of more than 3 medications per ICs, the prescription of quantities above those regulated in the Medicinal List, non-compliance with the criteria and treatment programmes for chronic patients. In conclusion, I inform you that if you are interested, you will be provided with the complete report on the control activities of the National Health Insurance Fund for the 9 months of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Once I make a request, the parliamentary control will continue until 2:30. The second question to you is from the National Representative Venka Stoyanova on policies for interventions in early childhood development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We will now make a turn and I will draw your attention to an issue concerning early childhood intervention policies. Dear Minister, the main agreement on cooperation signed between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNICEF in November 2004 lays the basis for the relationship between our government and UNICEF. The Programme Action Plan for the Party covering the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2022 should be interpreted and implemented in accordance with this basic cooperation agreement. In this regard, my question to you is: what policies does the Ministry of Health lead in this direction, namely for early childhood development?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Stoyanova! The Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Children's Fund of the United Nations (UNICEF), signed on 8 November 2004, lays the basis for the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNICEF. A decision of the Council of Ministers approved the Action Plan for the country. The Ministry of Health is one of the partners for its implementation. Programme priorities in the Action Plan are early childhood development and the system of public care for children. The policy of the Ministry of Health in support of this priority shall include: 1. Improving the quality of perinatal care in parental wards. 2. Provide high quality medical care in support of early childhood development and health promotion. 3. Guarantee healthy nutrition and physical activity to ensure optimal growth and development of children. 4. Provide complex interdisciplinary medical services for children with chronic diseases, disabilities and specific needs. 5. Deinstitutionalization of care for children up to 3 years of age. 6. Development of health and integrated health and social services at the place of services provided by the homes for medical and social care for children. The current regulations in the Republic of Bulgaria govern the implementation of the above policies. In the area of health insurance, the right of each child to receive medical care within the scope of the package is guaranteed. Outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, the Ministry of Health implements the following activities: Provides financial resources for the provision of services to children from 0 to 18 years of age under the following budget programmes: Guarantees the provision of obstetrics assistance to uninsured women and carrying out research on children and pregnant women. Subsidizes activities to provide diagnostics, treatment and specialized care for children with high medical risk. Under the National Programme for the Improvement of Children's Healthcare 2014-2020, the Ministry financed over 100 medical institutions for activities related to early diagnosis and complex treatment of certain diseases. The same program revealed 31 health consulting centers for mother and child health in all district cities and in some university hospitals. It fulfils the long-term objectives of replacing institutional care with new integrated health and social services in the community to support families of young children. As a result of this policy, the number of nursing homes for children has decreased from 32 to 14 and the number of children raised in them has decreased fivefold. In the 14 homes for medical and social care for children, where there are daily centers for children with disabilities, as of 31 July 2018. 832 children with disabilities from the community use daily, weekly and part-time care. Services for prevention of placement of children up to 3 years of age outside their families and development of alternative family care for children are being established. Visibly reduces the number of children passing through the homes. In 2009, 4351 children passed on to resident care and in 2017. Only 916 children. We are implementing policy through projects to support early childhood development. Through external funding were successfully implemented projects on approved quality of prenatal diagnostics and neonatal care, restructuring of medical and social care homes for children up to 3 years and in the direction of a family. The result was: eight closed homes for medical and social care for children in the municipalities of Gabrovo, Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Plovdiv, Ruse, Sofia and Targovishte. Conditions have been created for providing integrated health and social services to help raise children in a family environment. In conclusion, two projects under the European Regional Development Fund will be implemented through which infrastructure, equipment and furniture necessary for the functioning of 26 centres offering residence health and social services for children with disabilities and high risk behaviour will be built and provided. Projects are expected to be completed in 2020. Sorry for the fast reading, but I wouldn't have had enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u209	Yes, I've given you a lot of time, but the important thing is you've done well. Here's a line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u210	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I won't ask you any further questions. Your answer was very comprehensive. Thank you, both as a Member of the Parliament, and as a doctor with a specialty of children's age and as a person who has been engaged in the implementation of the National Health Policy at regional level for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u211	Thank you, too. We move on to the next question to Minister Ananiev and he is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the construction of the National Pediatric Hospital. Here you are, dear Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The problem of creating a national pediatric hospital has been discussed in the public domain by the entire nation for many years now. It was placed very specifically by us as the political power of your predecessor. In recent days, information has come out of the Council of Ministers' decision on the closure of Lozenets Hospital and the establishment of its territory and its building fund of a national pediatric hospital. In the absence of previous solutions, the solution is in the right direction, but it raises very many questions. My specific question to you is: as a principal in real time, how do you see the construction of the hospital and its beginning? In my line I will further develop part of our vision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u213	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, children's health is a top priority in the sector of.................................................................................................. Taking into account the fact that health care for children is an investment in future healthy generations, efforts to improve health services should focus on providing better access and temporary guidance to the necessary types of diagnosis and treatment, as well as complex interdisciplinary medical care for children with chronic diseases, disabilities and specific needs, including: prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and validation of a model for providing long-term health care for children. Bulgaria is the only European country that has no similar hospital. The only specialized state children's hospital in the country is SBAL Professor Ivan Mitev (Sofia), but it is only therapeutic. This can be overcome by creating a national multi-profile pediatric hospital in which the services under: urgent and highly specialised pediatric aid; intensive treatment of children, including with opportunities for long-term respiratory resuscitation; neonatal assistance with opportunities for the care of children born with a high degree of prematureness and extremely low birth weight; complex therapeutic and operational treatment of children with congenital abnormalities, chronic diseases, disabilities, other severe diseases and long-term treatment services, rehabilitation and pallet care. By building a multi-profile children's hospital the following results will be achieved: providing complex services to children in one place, ensuring the best medical care for children, stimulating the specialization of young doctors in the field of pediatrics. In relation to the facts and health priorities of the government at the meeting of the Council of Ministers, a resolution decision was adopted for the Hospital "Lozenets" in order to transform it into the first multiprofile hospital for hospital care providing complex treatment for children. I have a detailed Action Plan for Days and Weeks that has been approved by the Council of Ministers. I will share with you the most important things that will be realized within six months of the decision of the National Assembly: First, in the execution of t. 3 of Decision No 834 of the Council of Ministers I will propose to the National Assembly a change of the Law on Medical Institutions for the purpose of restructuring the Lozenets Hospital in a multiprofile medical facility providing complex treatment for children. The status of the medical establishment will be under art. 5 of the Law on Medical Institutions as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Health. Secondly, I will set up an expert group with the directors of a number of hospital care institutions in the city of Sofia, including: Hospital "Alexandrovska", "St. Ekaterina", National Cardiologic Hospital, "Pyrogov", ISUL, VMA, Maichin Home, Hospital of Pediatric Care "Ivan Mitev" and others, to prepare a detailed action plan for the restructuring of the existing hospital structures in the Hospital "Lozenets", which are not related to the treatment of children. The working group will include experts in pediatrics and children's care with proven professional experience. Thirdly, I will set up a legal and economic expert group to draw up an action plan for all legal and financial changes in the restructuring hospitals, from which children's clinics and wards will come, including through a change in the company's status and capital. Fourth, an audit will be carried out on the financial situation of Lozenets Hospital. In the course of the implementation of the above activities, the current medical facility will be reorganized by a multi-profile hospital in a hospital for treatment and care only for children. This will be achieved without creating social tension and creating a risk for both the treatment of patients in Lozenets Hospital, the professional realization of the staff in it and the training of students on the territory of the medical establishment. Finally, it is important to stress that I have full political support from the government, thus giving up a privilege for the health of Bulgarian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Mikhailov, a line, if you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The task to be decided by the Ministry is extremely responsible, at the same time. I'm just gonna let myself say that there's no hospital that's not therapeutic, so let's get this straight, besides all the hospitals that deal with treating children are generally multiprofile. However, what impresses me in your response and represents a direction of break-up and finally of this vicious model of health management is that this hospital goes under art. 5. This is a very interesting fact of which, I suppose, will benefit in their wishes many hospitals in the country of strategic importance. Since I have spoken to the directors of some of the largest medical institutions, each of them dreams of your decision, which you have made here, to become a hospital under art. 5. What will happen then to the model that is currently running the clinical trails of trading companies, I am not aware. I hope next year will be clear, because it is also a step in a direction that we have been traveling for over a year and a half. In my experience as a pediatrician, I have worked with children for more than 20 years before going to the Tree, I want to tell you that what you have set yourself as a task, which I said a few seconds ago, is something very, very complicated, as it is about rebreathering. Now I have made a simple account: of surgical and therapeutic wards in more than 10 specialties in each of the two main fields of clinical medicine, i.e. summation of material and bed base, which I do not know if Lozenets Hospital can bear it at this time with its bedside fund, architectural structure, functional structure and so on? The period of six months seems extremely optimistic to me, and it will hardly be able to be respected, because there are many of you mentioned that an assessment should be made of any medical facility that will be re-based, respectively a clinic, should be carried out an audit of the hospital itself, which will take over these structures. You will receive the full cooperation of the Parliament. This is the least we can do for our children, but really the task must be solved because it needs both Bulgarian mothers and children and the whole nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u217	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u218	Dear Professor Mihailov, this is indeed an extremely difficult task, which requires a lot of work. We've made a schedule for each other for a reason. I said that we have a plan of action by day and by week and by Monday, certain groups from the Ministry together with the directors and teams of hospitals will do a full review, assessment of human resources, bed base, equipment and corresponding opportunities for relocation of all of this in the new hospital. Personally, my team and I will go to Lozenets Hospital on Monday and we will look for an answer to the exact questions that you asked. That is why I am telling you that we have created a very urgent plan of action. We're hoping to do it in six months. I guess you won't be mad at us if we do it for seven. The important thing is to make it happen because people really want it. On the other hand, for art. 5, really should not be a trading company such a national children's multiprofile hospital and we are convinced of it, but does not mean that the hospital will not have a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund and will work on those paths that finance the Casa, separately the state will have its instrument to assist it in achieving certain national objectives for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u219	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question for you from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev about the continued increase in the debts of the Bulgarian hospitals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The reason for our question is to continue increasing the debts of Bulgarian hospitals. According to the Commercial Register in 2015, the liabilities of hospitals were 780 million. In 2016, BGN 820 million rose to 820 million. lv. and in 2017 The last one that we have verified has become 909 million. lv. According to our assessment, the debts of the 1918 state and municipal hospitals last year were 545 million. BGN, and the 130 private private.. 364 million. lv. There is a strong trend for the increase in hospital duties and to date they are likely to be around 1 billion. lv. The poor financial situation of Bulgarian hospitals, regardless of their property, is one of the main obstacles to the implementation of the reform in this sector. Our question to you is: what is your view and how will the negative trend be controlled regarding the financial situation of hospitals in the country, are you planning changes and what?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u221	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u222	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev, in recent years the financial situation of the state and municipal hospitals, and in particular the duties, show a tendency to increase and are an occasion in 2018 for taking consistent systematic action by the Ministry of Health towards their detention and reduction. The management of the Ministry of Health has focused its efforts on finding a legitimate option to overcome the overall debt of state and municipal hospitals. In implementation of a decision of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health has developed and implemented as of 3 May 2018. A uniform standard for financial management of medical institutions in order to stabilise the financial situation of medical institutions, unification of accountability and management practices by introducing uniform rules, general financial principles and policies in the management of medical institutions, monitoring of key indicators and ongoing monitoring and reporting. The Ministry of Health shall carry out an ongoing monitoring and analysis of the indicators included in the single electronic reporting form to the standard with a focus on the amount of overdue liabilities of medical institutions and the modification of this indicator compared to the previous reporting period. After the introduction of the Single Standard, there is a trend of reduction of the overdue liabilities. In comparison with the reported overdue liabilities of the hospitals on 30 September 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year, a reduction of 15% is reported as of 161 million. Seven thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and reach 136 846 thousand. lv. For all medical institutions in the top 10 with responsibilities "MHAL" "Kirkovic", "Pyrogov", "Alexandrovska", "St. George", "St. George", "St. Botev" " not to list all those who are in the top 10, the reduction of the due obligations on 30 September 2018 is 13 million. 318 thousand. BGN, or 10.7% decrease compared to the same period of 2017. It should be noted that, on 30 September 2018, of all 62 hospitals with more than 50 percent State participation in capital, overdue liabilities do not have 20 hospitals representing nearly 32% of all hospitals with more than 50% state participation in capital. The obligations of municipal medical institutions are the responsibility of their owner, i.e. municipalities, but there is a tendency to reduce the defaults, such as 46 million. $110,000. lv. On 30 September 2017, they reported 38 million. 524 thousand. lv. as of 30 September 2018, or a 16.5% reduction. A letter was sent to the mayors of municipalities where there are hospital care facilities with a recommendation to organise the implementation of the uniform standard of financial management in municipal hospitals and commercial companies, and we believe that this will have a positive effect on the work of municipal hospitals in order to improve their financial sustainability and efficiency. With the adoption of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund and the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the medical institutions, regardless of the form of ownership, will have access to a larger financial resource, which will also lead to and affect the amount of their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, undoubtedly what you said is a step in the right direction, but you know that the main problem, which leads to an increase not of the dues, but of the common obligations of the Bulgarian hospital company, is the limitation of activity, lack of staff and capital investments in the area of municipal hospitals. I am pleased, bearing in mind your previous question, that this is a step in the right direction and that you accept our proposal that Bulgarian hospitals have the status of art. 5, with the ability to work with the Health Insurance Fund, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u225	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, will you have a duplicate? No. A question from the MP Stanislav Ivanov about the state of the emergency services centers in the municipalities of Pernik district. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ananiev! On the territory of Pernik district work five emergency centers, in the municipalities of Pernik, Radomir, Trun, Zemen and Breznik. They have outdated equipment, which is extremely insufficient, there is a shortage of ambulances and specialists. I've already exposed to you the problems of emergency centers in small municipalities. They haven't changed, and in time they've even gotten deeper. Despite the shortage of ambulances and specialists, doctors work conscientiously and perform their duties. In the emergency centers in Trun, Zemen, Breznik and Radomir there are doctors who are not mobile when the ambulance is available, therefore access not only to hospital, but also to emergency care of the inhabitants of the small municipalities is extremely difficult. It is often necessary to drive the sick with personal cars more than 50 kilometers to the district hospital. The only advantage of CSM in Pernik is that it is located in the building of the only multiprofile hospital in the district and patients can be diagnosed quickly. However, there is a shortage of personnel and equipment. Despite all requests to improve the level of emergency assistance in Pernik District and despite the Managing Program of the Director of the Emergency Medical Centre, people are often unable to receive adequate assistance. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures will you take to address the extremely severe problems of emergency medical care in the Pernik region in order to ensure adequate healthcare for residents in the area?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u227	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, emergency medical care in Pernik District is provided by the Center for Emergency Medical Assistance, established by PMS No 195 of 11 October 1995. The Emergency Medical Center is structured with five emergency medical services branches, and they are in Pernik, Radomir, Zemen, Breznik and Trun. The primary objective of emergency medical care is to interrupt the development of acute or sudden life-threatening, or threatening severe or irreversible health diseases. In the field of emergency medicine are organized and carried out scheduled medical activities such as preventive examinations and transport of patients for scheduled medical examinations. In order to fulfil the primary objective.. emergency medical care, to each emergency medical center in Pernik and affiliates are structured mobile fixed medical teams. The mobile emergency medical teams at the Center are distributed as follows: four in the Emergency Medical Services branch of Pernik, and one in all other affiliates. Mobile emergency medical teams perform emergency calls and perform emergency diagnostics and therapy for patients with acute malfunctions of vital functions at the scene and during transport to hospitalization at the hospital hospital. Stationary emergency medical teams shall be established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the activities of emergency medical services centres in emergency medical services, on whose territory no emergency wards have been opened. Such stationary teams are structured in Radomir, Zemen, Breznik, Trun, and there is none in Pernik due to the presence of an emergency unit in the structure, as you said, at the hospital "Rahila Angelova." The Emergency Medical Center is operating with 17 cars distributed as follows: 9 units in the Pernik branch and two units in all other affiliates. Specialized sanitary cars and stationary teams are equipped with sufficient medical equipment that is timely and quality emergency medical care. Every year, wage funds are increased by 10% in the emergency medical care system. The implementation of the big investment project in support of the development of the emergency medical care system under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" will allow the building fund to be renovated and restructuring, to upgrade the medical equipment in the system and to buy new sanitary vehicles. On the territory of Pernik District, within the project is envisaged, and perhaps this is the most important thing you expect to hear........................................in Pernik Center a new site with an area of 400 sq. m; in the branch in Radomir.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... m; in the Zemen branch of the first stage of the existing polyclinic in the town of Zemen, used for emergency medical care needs of 145 squares; in the Breznik branch of the first floor of the existing polyclinic, used for emergency medical care needs of 143 squares, and in Tran of the first stage of the building of the existing municipal hospital, Doctor Stamen Grigorov, used for emergency medical care needs of 161 squares. In the distribution of the new ambulances will be provided the necessary for the Emergency Medical Centre in Pernik ambulances.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, and a few months ago I asked you the same question, and you answer me almost the same way. [[Reply of Minister Kiril Ananiev: "It's not exactly like that.]] I hope this long-awaited project finally happens. My request to you is: if you could be a little more precise when will it happen? About six months ago, you replied to me again that on the project that you quoted, all emergency centres in Pernik region will be renovated, adapted to a service that we all expect. Unfortunately, you mentioned earlier that we have well-equipped ambulances, and that is not the case. Smaller municipalities experience an exceptional shortage of adequate emergency care, because the teams are only in smaller municipalities, ambulances are not well equipped enough, and ambulances are quite a few years old, quite often entering the repair regime. There's a big problem with the management of the emergency center. And the last time I turned your attention here, you temporarily released him, and then you brought him back this priceless party shot. There are constantly signals to him from various complaints from trade unions, from employees, of course, they are worried and do not want to stand with their faces, but before I turned your attention to the management of the emergency center. I have mentioned to you about the frequent repairs of ambulances, there is doubt that quite often they come in for repairs, for the overtime work of the staff and doctors in the emergency center, and they have not had preventive examinations for a long time. That's information from quite recently. My request is: if you could check all these things and in your backside, a little bit more specifically, when in each municipality will we actually have an emergency center as we all want to have? If I may, one sentence off the subject. I'm breaking some rules, but I just turned your attention to another huge problem that is currently ticking in Pernik with our municipal hospital for healing and rehabilitation. I gave you the papers. At the moment, the NRA has announced a public sale to the municipal hospital in Pernik, and you have made a commitment this afternoon to give us an answer. I'm hoping to get that response on the emergency measures you're going to take to get us out of this idiotic situation with Pernik City Hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u231	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u232	On the two issues that you put after returning to the Ministry, I will contact the NRA. I saw the letter, and you can see that the NRA is the active one, which means I'm guessing they've been blocked by some kind of duty and they've gone under this procedure. I'll check it out first thing in the afternoon and make contact with you to let you know. On the matter of deadlines. I, and the last time you asked me questions, told you: if it were up to me alone, the project would end on 31 December 2019 and on 1 January, if the new model came in, it would be one of the tools that I would use to restructure hospital care. I mean, she had to be ready by the end of the year. However, we have many great friends who appeal every single contract, we are losing weeks and months. This is not just about this project, and this is also about the National Health Information System. We are judged on several occasions and therefore I cannot tell you the specific date. If everything was going well, this project would be completed by the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. That's the end of the question for you. Enjoy your work. We are going with questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Valchev. A question from the MPs Radostin Tanev and Galya Zhelyazkova on the promotion of digitalization in Bulgarian schools. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, one of the priorities you often talk about is the development and entry of digital education in Bulgarian schools, and the development of digital skills in students and the use of technology in the training process is of great importance. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures does the Ministry of Education take to promote digitalisation in the education system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u235	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, when we talk about digitalization of Bulgarian education, we should not only talk about training through information technology but about training for the acquisition of digital skills. The fact is that digital competences are one of the nine key competences. They were supplemented by the recommendation for key competences adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency in May 2018. With regard to the acquisition of digital skills, today in the school education system are trained children who will be on the labour market in 2050.. 2060 when the world will have undergone large-scale digital transformations and when much more of the working positions will be linked to the management of machines based on artificial intelligence or other technologies that we are still developing or do not exist today. This suggests that we prepare tomorrow's generations for not only being digital users, but also being digital creators, having deeper digital competences, managing machines, creating machines, creating software. That's why we're taking out the skills associated with digital creativity as key. Whether we are going to be a developed country tomorrow, whether we are going to pass successfully and effectively during the period of the upcoming large-scale digital transformations, especially with reaching a certain level of development of artificial intelligence, this transition will be accelerated, depends very much on whether we will prepare more children today who will have in-depth software skills and skills in the field of digital creativity. This is why from this school year we introduced the discipline "Computer modeling" from the third grade; that is why we started the program "Start for IT career" which is for high school students who are not trained in profiles and professions related to information technology and computer systems to acquire a professional qualification programmer. This is additional training in which they can acquire software skills. Apart from that, in the policy of validating a post-Seventh grade adoption plan, we have set an increase in the classes in the field of information technology and computer systems, on the one hand; on the other hand, the profiles related to information technology. We will encourage more schools now in the second high school stage to choose profiles related to information technology. These are all activities in the direction of expanding the number of children with deeper skills. With regard to the share of children with more in-depth skills in software and hardware science, what I have to say is that we will expand these skills in terms of interest activities. In the draft provisions that we have proposed for regulation, organisation and financing of interest activities next year, we have set 40% of them to be in the field of STEM (STEM, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) and, apart from this, with a project that we will start next year under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" we will finance activities in the field of computer modelling and coding from the first grade. This is about learning digital skills. As for learning through information technology, it is a fact that children are now of digital generation. They work from much smaller digital devices, think faster, do several things at the same time, and this requires us to approach their training differently. There are schools that have tried one option and the other: on the one hand, to train without any technology; on the other hand, to train through the use of information technology. In almost all cases the second option shows better results. What we're doing is expanding network access. Firstly, the State Agency for Electronic Governance invests in the so-called "Operation Network." By the end, by the middle, or by the spring of next year, if I say it more ambitiously, we should also have wi-fi networks in all schools that cover at least 80% of the school area. That's our conditional criterion. Currently there are funded, built such networks in nearly 1800 schools. There are just over 500 schools left. We need to expand the possibilities for frontal training. This is what we are doing under the National Programme of Information and Communication Technologies. Separately, we finance the purchase of equipment, the furniture of e-learning offices, centres in the field of STEM and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u237	Thank you, dear Minister. You've been pretty thorough. I hope there won't be any lines and no coats. Thank you again. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova and Tanya Petrova regarding changes in the Regulation for Inclusive Education. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers! A draft Ministerial Decree on amendment and supplement of regulations is currently uploaded for public discussion, which provides for a change in the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. Some of the changes concern changes in priority thematic areas for interest activities. My question to you is: how will you stimulate education in natural sciences, mathematics, information technology and civic education?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u240	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, thank you for the question. It is important not only for our education system, but for all education systems or at least those in the European Union, because in the form of the Council of Education Ministers, we are having formal and informal discussions about the common challenges we face. This is one of them to motivate today's generation of children and students for a deeper study of mathematics, natural sciences, development of interests in the field of technology, what we call the STEM on English language abbreviation. The fact is that today we are making this more difficult with today's generation of children and students. In Bulgaria, in these areas and in respect of these competences and disciplines, we are reporting to the greatest extent a decline in educational results. In the system of vocational education, it is therefore difficult to motivate the inclusion of more students in technical professional directions, which the labour market tells us are the most important, that there will be the biggest expected future shortage in the labour market, that there will be the greatest increase in remuneration in positions that require technical vocational education. Similarly, in the system of higher education in the last five years, we have reported the greatest reduction in demand by candidate students in engineering and technical fields and those related to natural sciences and mathematics. On the other hand, there we expect the greatest shortage. The rating system we have shows us that these are the positions that have good realization and the highest increase in remuneration. Therefore, we must use all policy instruments to encourage more children to engage and develop competences in the field of STEM, to develop interests in the field of mathematics, natural sciences and technology. For years no interest activities were financed in the Bulgarian system of education. There was no targeted funding. They only took place in some schools. They were subsequently financed under the project "Success" and in the last two years "Your hour" project. The good news is that with the budget you have adopted for 2019, there are 25 million at stake. lv. for interest activities in schools. These funds are a little more than the last years have been provided annually for each school year under the project Your hour. What are we gonna do? We will maintain as a basic principle what we have proposed with the changes in the legal documents to be targeted in accordance with the interests and abilities of children. On the other hand, we are trying to make several targeted policies. One of them is to develop interests in the field of mathematics, technology and natural sciences. We have set a minimum requirement for 40% of the hours held at school level as interest activities to be in these areas. That's what we've suggested. I'm sure the schools will realize that. With the provisions that we have proposed for interest activities, we are also trying to make schools more open and interacting. We have set a minimum percentage of hours to be held by external contractors; we have set a policy to have joint activities between schools, inter-school activities, inter-school events, participation of the municipality together with its structures and units, including centers to support personal development. All this should extend children's access to different specialists, to a different educational environment. We have also staked on opening up to parents, as not a small part of parents can effectively participate in interest activities. This is what other EU member states do, which we share with other colleagues, ministers of education. We must use this perimeter to the maximum extent to develop the key competences of children. The fact is that there is less standardisation in interest activities. There's no school plan we have to follow. Sometimes it is much harder to make some policies through the hours of study than through the hours of interest activities. We need to use these classes to develop children's abilities, motivate them, inspire them to a greater extent through interest activities and complement what they are learning from the curriculum in an effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u241	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last two questions have one common word that you have used several times, this is the word........................ the school's conversion from assembly line to a flexible incubator of ideas, knowledge and skills for the realization of students in professions that do not yet exist and are not known, the so-called professions of the future; for the use of technologies that have not yet been invented; and for solving problems whose character can hardly be predicted. They require a clear vision, require changes that I see from what makes your Ministry and from the answer you gave, I see vision, vision for the future related to digitalization and the study of mathematics to a particularly high extent in the Bulgarian school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u243	Thank you. I'm under the impression that you're happy with the answer and you don't expect the backdrop?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u244	I'm extremely pleased.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u245	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the questions for you are over. Enjoy your work. Colleagues, we continue with the questions, the first of which is from the MP Stoyan Mirchev, to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u246	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the National Archaeological Reserve "Antical and medieval city of Durostorum." About 80% of the town of Silistra enters the borders of the National Archaeological Reserve, as I presented at the beginning. According to the Cultural Heritage Act within the city of construction and investment intentions archaeological studies, rescue digs within the reserve and legion camp and observation of the borders of the Roman necropolis are mandatory. After the end of the archaeological studies, a commission by order of the Minister or his authorised Deputy Minister of Culture shall appoint a commission from the Inspectorate, which shall accept the studies, shall also draw up a protocol. On the basis of this protocol, NIKN (National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage) reconciles construction intentions, design visas and archaeological projects. I have been contacted several times by various investors and citizens who want to carry out appropriate repairs with a complaint that the procedures are taking too long. At the same time, in the second-tier area of the reserve and the surveillance zone, where in most cases only iconic foundations are made, the NIKN agreed only visas, but not projects. The projects there are coordinated after archeological research. My questions to you are as follows. Is there a specific period for coordination of visas, respectively projects with investor intentions, after drawing up the minutes of the Commission from the Inspectorate to the Ministry of Culture and depositing it in the Ministry of Culture? Article 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act, where four-month periods are indicated, is it respected at all, because the complaints I receive sometimes are for eight months, for one year, including two years? Are there any cases on the reservation in Silistra when investors have been waiting for co-ordination project seven, eight months, one, two years? Have you received complaints from citizens and investors about such really big delays?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u247	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, by order of 11 May 2015 of the Ministry of Culture of the Ancient and Medieval City of Durostorum After promulgation of the order, the reserve is included in the list of archaeological reserves annexed to art. 50, para. 3 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition to the designated archaeological reserve by order of 5 October 2016, the Ministry of Culture of the Roman Legion Camp and the civilian settlement of the town of Silistra was granted the status of group archaeological real estate. In connection with your question concerning problems with the coordination regime of the National Archaeological Reserve..Antical and medieval city Durostorum.. Druster, Silistra District, I inform you the following. The 4-month period specified by you for the operation of investment intentions concerning interventions in real cultural values and their security zones shall be in force from July 2016. For the period from July 2016 until now, the Ministry of Culture for Coordination in the Order of Art. 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act for the territory of the Ancient and medieval city of Durostorum, Druster. Five investment initiatives were introduced, two of them were carried out within the requested 4-month period, two were drawn up with a delay of less than a month and one was under preparation. The process from the start of the investment intention to its implementation goes through different stages. It includes activities which are in the power of both the Ministry of Culture and other institutions, and in certain cases the procedures may exceed a period of two years. The availability of data on archaeology requires carrying out research activities, documentation, storage, which in many cases prolongs the period for realization of the entire investment intention. Any investment intention is carried out in accordance with the Law on Construction of the Territory, but in cases concerning real cultural value, the procedures are in line with the requirements of the Law on Cultural Heritage. Any phase of the investment process regulated in the Law on Construction of the Area concerning Protected Area for the Protection of Real Cultural Heritage shall be subject to a conciliation procedure as required by the Law on Cultural Heritage. For each of the phases of submission of documents for coordination at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage according to art. Art. 83 84 is subject to a 4-month term regulated by the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u250	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I've been invited a number of times to various construction projects to show me that there are indeed major delays. I don't know your intel on how detailed it is, but they've been showing me documents where there are delays over the normal deadline. The main problem is that Silistra is one of the country's most backward economic areas. There, any investment intention must be supported by the state so that the region can still develop. The main problem is that in waiting for coordination of visas and projects the delays are more than half a year and more, the excavations are collapsing. This specifically means that they are practically disintegrating, that is, once the excavations have been made, the procedure begins, it slows down the winter comes, the excavation is destroyed and next year it has to be done again. In other words, the person himself, including when the excavations are made, must again invest the exact same amount in order to be able to remake the area for laying a different kind of foundation. Since these problems have escalated in the last year and a half, do you have any idea how to stimulate the National Museum of History, the Inspectorate and the deputy minister's staff procedures to be at least accelerated? We are talking here not to violate cultural heritage, if there is one in the relevant investment project, but to optimize the deadlines and the deadline to comply, that is, when a person starts doing something, to know when the whole procedure begins and when the procedure will be completed. Because exceeding these deadlines and the negative practices I am telling you about really lead to doing the same investment procedure twice, which is an unnecessary cost for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u251	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I have brought in nearly 30 files for Silistra, not just for these two reservations. There is one that to our shame is within seven months, but everything else is within the deadline. There are some that are five months, there are many that are within a month, within two and a half months, so this is a process. Our aspiration and my direction and actions are all such, but perhaps it is the subject of a wider conversation to explain them. Now's not the time. I don't have enough time. We are trying to comply with all the deadlines, we have even set ourselves for our internal purpose to work at half the term that gives us the Law, not to wait for the whole four-month period. There are many times.. keep in mind where documents are sent that are incomplete. The Institute examines them, returns to the investor and, accordingly, to his architect for repair, they are corrected, they return, that is, things are not always just in the slowdown of the Institute. There's a trial, there's a procedure inside. The Institute is working with investors, trying not to give them a negative opinion, but during the review of the opinion itself to give the necessary recommendations and to make the necessary adjustments. I assure you that we are looking forward to this, and I hope to say this with pride after a while, regardless of the four-month term of the Law, to work within two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u253	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Alexander Simov and Nona Yotova about a scandalous performance in the National Art Gallery. Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, very recently the Bulgarian society was scandalized by a performance by artist Michaela Danovska, alias Oda J'onn. I tried to read some things about her, her interviews. It turned out that Oda in Old German meant a treasure or a wealthy heir. I don't know exactly what it is, because I have no knowledge of old German, and J'onn is in French yellow or gold. The performance in question was held at the National Art Gallery. A particularly sharp reaction prompted the videos of the event, which showed a great feast of masses teeming with meat shaped in different female figures. We heard all the excuses for the event from the highest steam that the artist visualized women as objects for use, to the most banal, that the National Art Gallery had the right to authorise such events. Maybe actually, when you pay for one thing, you can do absolutely anything. At least that's how I know it. However, public noise and indignation do not subside, and the culprits of the event rushed to erase the videos in social networks, demonstrating an unexpected sense of guilt, especially if it was a performance that insisted on raising a scandal. This performance has been very successful in raising a scandal much more successfully. I remember months ago about a chalga singer who took the lowest rhythms to say the poem of Vaptsarov. I think the operation is much bigger here. Months before that, there were magazine covers with Oda J'onn. I had bought a magazine, and because I didn't know the guy for whom the material was for, I paid attention to this material only now that the scandal took place. So no one really knew who Oda J'onn was, and now everyone knows who she is, but unfortunately, not through her art, but through such a deliberately prepared scandal, I think. In this regard, our question is: do you support such performances in the National Art Gallery, do you consider all of this to be normal and correct? Will there be sanctions for the management of the Gallery that have allowed such perversion in a cultural monument the first building according to the European model in Sofia?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u255	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Iotova, Dear Mrs. Simov! On 22 November this year, in the halls of the first floor of the Palace under the patronage of the French Institute, Bulgaria, and with the assistance of the gallery The exhibition is collected from museums and private collections and includes over 50 works of painting, sculpture, watercolor from its early works to this day. According to the contract between the Gallery and the author the same evening in the Ballroom, in which there is no exhibition, is organized a cocktail named by the artist. The project is fully funded by the gallery "Templon" "Paris." The attendees are personally invited by the author, artists, curators, gallerists, collectors, journalists or just friends from Bulgaria, Germany, France, Belgium, Great Britain and Switzerland. The vision, the scenography, as well as the sculpture elements in the arrangement of the tables and menu are the idea of the artist and illustrate her individual style and the concept of the exhibition. The performance is designed and implemented in line with the stylistics of the works of Oda J'J'onn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Simov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, your answer in this case is anything but satisfactory. We do not want technical details of this event from you. I'm not even interested in who gave the money, because the charge isn't who funded this performance. It's about something else. I ask of you your attitude towards this event, as I think that this attitude is extremely important. You know, in this Parliament we very often deal with technical details of management, with one detail or another, but it seems to me that your Ministry is one of the most important in every country and especially in Bulgaria, because it is called besides technical details and questions about payments to ask the meaning of the cultural spirit of the Bulgarian people. In this sense, I would like to hear from you whether or not you accept something like this happening at the National Art Gallery, a place which we can define as one of the saints of the Bulgarian spirit, because in the end we are not so rich in other such places. The big question is, what exactly does the Ministry of Culture do? We will tolerate a culture for 500 people of yellowbirds, cultural snobs in Sofia who experience everything, as long as it is European and global, even if it is the largest half-factor, or will we look for a way to make authentic Bulgarian culture that respects our values? That's the big meaning of the question we're asking you. And there's another technical detail. What does it mean to be paid by another association? For example, in the case of the gallery in Paris. Does it mean that anyone who wants to pay something like an event at the National Art Gallery should be allowed in? What if someone says tomorrow we'll have a big drink at the National Art Gallery or a chalga party there? Does the fact that it is paid mean that it should be allowed? Secondly, do you see any art in this? I took the liberty of reading several interviews by the head of the Gallery, or acting in the position of Iara Bubnova. Well, I'm sorry, these interviews talked mostly about whether cauliflower is the right food for vegans and that Swiss people who were vegetarians who were pinching grapes because it's not clear if they ate the fillet. Do you think this is an art conversation? Is this where the idea of art in Bulgaria was degraded to go looking for a menu, to see if it was pork fillet and where exactly was the salmon located on these plateaus? Once again, I read and saw your interviews. You said, "This is an act of art." I take it it's an act of art, but this act of art could have been made in an arbitrary other building. If it were done in the Red House or in any other gallery, there would never be a scandal. Here, however, the National Art Gallery was targeted so that Mrs. Oda J'onn or Michaela Danovska could gain popularity. I fear that by allowing Oda J'onn to perform there, the state is involved in building its popularity to an artist who in no way can be said to be globally significant and famous. That is why I would like to hear from you an attitude in order to understand whether you understand that the Ministry of Culture should ultimately lead that conversation, which is most important and which is beyond the whole policy here.. the conversation about our national art, about what we are developing, which are the sanctities of Bulgarian national art and will we tolerate all kinds of impoverishment that have decided to become famous through pork fillet? Thank you very much. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u259	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Dear Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Iotova, Dear Mrs. Simov! Every citizen has the right to like or dislike an act of art. It's his absolute right. I can say a lot of things right now. You speak very qualitatively, very meaningfully, very figuratively. I have the claim that I could seal two minutes in this direction, but I will only say one thing: about 30 years ago the censorship of art in Bulgaria ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-30.u261	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, the next meeting on Wednesday, 5 December 2018, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
