ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, last week we voted that today the National Assembly will hold an extraordinary meeting with a single point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DISCLOSURE THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH A MINISTER-FRIENDED BORISOV ARCHIVED IN SECURITY POLICY. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. The vote on the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have a procedure, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I am making a procedure for the direct broadcast of the debates on the draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on both the debates in today and the vote when it is held. The direct broadcast is to be carried out according to the Rules of Channel BNT 2 and on the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on this procedure. Vote 187 MPs: 182, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest that you put to the vote the following procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Angel Popov "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; and Mr. Krasimir Tsipov " Deputy Minister of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the proposal for admission made in the House of the said persons. Vote 185 MPs: 141, against 30, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Ministers to the Chamber. Colleagues, I'm going to take advantage of reading two messages: The first is next to Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, Chairman of the National Assembly, from Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. The application was lodged at 11.52: A request by Spas Yanev Panchev, MP from the twenty-seventh election district of Stara Zagorski. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I declare that I am leaving the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. I will continue my work as the MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly as independent. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo! "]] The next message is to me by Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the BSP for Bulgaria, submitted at 12.12 pm: On 25 June 2018, the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria on the basis of art. 26, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of SG BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria) decided to exclude from the parliamentary group of the National Representative Spas Yanev Panchev. In accordance with art. 14, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask that the change in the composition of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria be addressed in the appropriate order. Chairman of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria Communication concerning a motion to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers: On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 80 MPs from the National Assembly of the Bulgarian National Assembly proposed that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in security policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 20 June 2018, Wednesday, at 11.22 p.m., No 854-02-32 on 20 June 2018. On the same day the materials were distributed by one copy to the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Colleagues, before I give the floor for consideration of the motives, I will read you the allocation of time in relation to the implementation of... [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet, colleagues! [[(Applause and cheering: (Applause and cheering:)]] Why the applause I don't understand?! [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet! ...Art. 58, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: The SG of GERB has 30 minutes, the BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You know, of course, that ministers have the right to take the floor at any time they want it. Colleagues, I give the floor to the importer for a 10-minute presentation of the motives. In the meantime, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will be extremely strict about observing the time for lines, duplicates, procedures, procedure in the manner of conduct. I want to say it from the beginning. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for consideration of the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! We have tabled a no-confidence vote in security policy because the government cannot fulfil its constitutional obligation to ensure the country's public order and national security. We are sadly aware that we are starting this debate at a time when a prisoner has just deviated from the second floor of the Plovdiv District Police Department. Arrested for possession of narcotics, he has just escaped from Plovdiv District. I hope, Mr. Radev, you catch him until the end of the debate so he doesn't get a beard and disappear! Otherwise, we'll get to the point. Let's start with the worst problem for Bulgarian citizens - so-called domestic crime, otherwise conventional. We can list hundreds of daily cases of thefts, assaults, robberies and beatings on people. Humans are not only unprotected, but also criminals remain unsolved. According to the report of the Ministry of Interior of February 2018. 75% of the most massive and painful crimes for Bulgarian citizens remain unsolved. According to the D.A.'s records, the robbery was only 40%. Eighty-five percent of the phone frauds committed in 2017 remain unsolved. But from them, by Bulgarian citizens, 5 million were awarded. lv. It's only for a year! For this incompetence and frustration the Bulgarian citizens pay from the taxes three and a half billion leva. You pay to be beaten, robbed and abused?! Not only are you not doing well, but you have lied, dear rulers! I know what you'll say in the debate. There was always domestic crime at the time of the triple coalition, at Oresharski. You've had more! This time the debate won't be a word for a word. And we don't have to negotiate. This time we suggest to speak the documents. You promised! And you didn't! Not Oresharski, not the Triple Coalition! Dear Minister Radev, during the week you claimed that BSP lied that GERB had promised six thousand police officers and police officers in each settlement. Let's see the papers! Have you read the election program of GERB, with which you have been elected as MPs and ministers and in which it says: Who lies and who has not fulfilled their promises? We put this promise in the column "Unfulfilled." Let's see another promised and unfulfilled actions and measures in places of imprisonment. From the most guarded prison, the Sofia Central Prison, with guns in hand, two dangerous criminals convicted of kidnappings, robberies and murders, fleeing through the central entrance in broad daylight and only the cleaning lady chases them. Of course, two months the Ministry of Interior searched for them unsuccessfully with the explanation that they have grown beards and are wearing hoods, and so until they shot themselves in Botevgrad one of them, by the way, is still circling the country or is out. The Home Secretary called the murder a malshans! It's cynicism, colleagues! Is it Malshans that a 13-year-old convicted of fornication is found on an unguarded object, where he flees and attacks a woman in the village of Letnitsa? Are the displayed murders of a nearby GERB businessman from Tarnovo Petar Hristov, shot in broad daylight in Sofia with a machine gun? Or is it the head of the Department of Fiscal Control by the NRA Ivo Stamenov? Are there any captured and convicted? I won't. What about the six-year murder in Novi Iskar, committed by a convicted man who wasn't tracked down by the Ministry of Interior for nine years? You can't justify yourself here: we catch them, they let them go. This guy was also convicted! But worse! From a report by the Prosecutor General in March 2018, it became clear: over 900 such Bulgarians, convicted, walk freely among the people. This isn't a misdemeanor! This is criminal incompetence of the management of the Ministry of Interior and the government. Why? Because the political appointments at the head of the Ministry of Interior, which have nothing to do with professionalism, are demotivating police officers and guards...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u7	During Oresharski. In Oresharski time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u8	...one year they protest. How do you think guards who take 800 leva will handle it? A paycheck, and a prisoner gets over 1,000 for alimony? How do you think you're gonna motivate cops who have no shoes, no uniforms, no gasoline, not even paper in printers? You're bragging about hiring 1,000 new ones, but over 2,000 have left. Only a hundred and a few of them retired, the others left because they were demoted by government, leadership and the system. You are destroying the security system to such disrespect, such an deletion that Gypsies in Botevgrad beat absolutely unpunished police officers. A man with 16 convictions is not in prison, but in Botevgrad and beats policemen, throws stones, stakes with 16 sentences! Why is that? At the same time, impunity and frustration do something extremely dangerous, esteemed rulers, with long-term consequences not for the parties, but for statehood and for the Bulgarians. The government refuses to fulfil its main constitutional obligation to protect the state and the people and to transfer it to private hands the Private Security Act, where billion and seven hundred million leva resources are generated. You have also proposed that some of these duties be transferred to the mayors. The Chief Prosecutor, the President of the Republic, has referred to the Constitutional Court for this unprecedented act of refusal by the state to fulfil its constitutional obligations. What are the consequences of this? The most dangerous to statehood. The Bulgarians, when they see that there is no protection of the state, are self-organized. Do you remember how society reacted when the doctor from Plovdiv shot the repeater? Mass protests following crimes that people believe will remain unsolved are already a common phenomenon. Our society is self-organizing because there is no state and no state. In the same way, they organized themselves to protect their safety on the roads. Did you see last week people from three villages in Vratsa have self-organized to fill their holes on the roads so they wouldn't kill each other on the roads and not break their cars? But didn't Mr. Borisov say that every hole will be a policeman or a man from the administration until it is filled?! Where, where are they and what happened? Your pride is the construction of roads. You never heard us when we told you this was the place where you most stole and the evaluation came from outside. Let's see what that estimate is. Report of the World Economic Forum on Infrastructure Quality, 2017 survey The 93rd site of road quality, just before us are Tanzania, Algeria, Mali and Armenia. We are talking about security on the roads and the pride of GERB and the construction of roads, as well as self-organization of Bulgarian society. Again outside, unfortunately, our words have been confirmed, which we have put before you and the question that we have put before you in the previous vote of mistrust, the country's financial security, the crime of the white collars. Do you remember how you attacked us for the BASIS system? How did you deny how you said we were lying, that we were manipulating, that we were jealous of your great successes?! Come on now, because I promised you we would use documents to see the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office for Bulgaria for 2017. [[Shows multimedia.]] They've done 110 checks! Transit operations have been initiated in different countries of the European Union, such as Poland, Hungary, Germany, France and Lithuania. When checking the Bulgarian customs posts where the goods were to be processed, it is established that the trucks have never crossed from there. Now who's right? Mr. Borisov, who said a week ago: "If the BSP wants a vote of no confidence, then the smuggling has decreased or OLAF "the European Anti-Fraud Office." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Probably...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u9	From the time of the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u10	Yes, please from the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u11	Move over, they want a statement! From now on, consider it as Mrs. Ninova's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u12	It is likely that OLAF is lying and envying you for the great successes! Further on, I will leave my colleagues to speak, because our time is short, but I will only place a focus on the defence man, on the serviceman, who is 25, 30% of the non-completion, demotivation of the people. For the first time in recent history, pilots refuse to fly because of lack of spare parts, of repairs, of policies. Choppers fell and people died. At this time, there is a misunderstanding within the government between the finance minister and the defence minister how to act in the security and defence sector. But another misunderstanding, colleagues, in the government, raises the issue of the security of government governance and security. Dear Prime Minister, have you heard your deputy sitting next to you and replacing you when you are going abroad, what does the minister say: that he tolerates and supports prostitution and drug trafficking and another minister conducts the interests of the goons at sea? When that's said by the opposition, she lies and envyes you. When your people say it, what do you do? Why are you silent? Do you know what these words of Mr. Valeri Simeonov mean, I congratulate him on his courage, even though we have had many differences? It means that uncertainty, instability and crime sit at the table at the Council of Ministers. Mr. Radev, as Home Minister, why didn't you look at yourself from those words? Why didn't you question these ministers? Who's helping drug dealers? Who tolerates mutren groups? Total silence! When we get to the questions about crimes of this nature, let's ask you, esteemed managers: how is it that an entire plane went across the border, through the airport of Bulgaria without checking it out? Is it Malchance that passengers from an entire plane passed through the airport and border of Bulgaria, on Europe without verification, or is it again criminal negligence or incompetence during the European Presidency? Is Bulgaria a reliable partner in Europe on the topic of Security? Does it secure its own and European peoples from illegal migration, for example? Dozens of times we've alerted no, you don't! You have attacked us dozens of times that it is not true and that you are the most reliable partner in Europe. What is going on, colleagues, now in Europe on this topic? It's torn apart by contradictions, it's waving a finger at us, and we're told: "Or are you taking migrants, or we're stopping your money, and I'm quoting France. An axis of countries against illegal migration shall be established. For nine years, you followed Mrs Merkel's policies blindly. What are you doing? During this week you denied our words that in the Strategy you have adopted on these topics, here is the official document behind me. [[shows multimedia]] that you see in this topic an opportunity for labour to fix the economy of the country. Does it say that? Did you accept it? Why do you deny it? Does it say that in migrants you see an opportunity to solve the demographic crisis in Bulgaria? There he is. [[shows document]] , official document of the government of Borisov. Before us last week, he said very bravely: "I will tell them that I will not accept any migrant, close the borders, chicken will not overrun the borders. Only we've come to a lot of trouble not to trust him. Do you know, colleagues, what is Bulgaria's official position on this issue in Europe? Have you read it, have you ever seen it? Well, we looked for her! There she is. [[shows document]] You can see it, read it, I don't have much time to read it, but here are good wishes. We did our best as Presidents of the European Union. The Dublin Agreement must be revised. It is necessary for the negotiation process to continue in order for the European Union to be as well prepared as possible for challenges. Here you can see: I will close borders and I will not let migrants in Bulgaria's official position to the Council? Mr. Borisov in front of us and before the Bulgarian people spoke bravely one "We are not sure that this is how brave he said it there. We're not even sure he said that after we see the official document. In brackets is it only true what the correspondent of the Financial Times wrote that Mr. Borisov left this most important meeting for Bulgaria and Europe to watch a match in the World Cup? We don't believe! Although the Financial Times is not a yellow agency, but we don't believe it. [[Heckling]] This man must be jealous too. Only, fellow Members, what should we trust now? Tell me, which of the following two things should we believe in you so we can trust you? [[Shows multimedia.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u13	Mrs. Ninova, I'm gonna have to ask you to take the sound off! Please, this isn't a screening room. Slides can go, but in the end, it's not a screening room to listen to the prime minister's statements from the stands. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u14	This is the Prime Minister of Bulgaria, can't we hear him? [[Noise and lines.]] We've seen censoring opposition, but censoring the prime minister?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u15	Please, this is the second time I've allowed you a multimedia in this room without making any remark. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u16	Okay, I'll rephrase it. Please, you don't want to hear what the Prime Minister is saying? He's the one you're gonna have to answer, not me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u17	You didn't note in your request that you wanted to have such a broadcast on television...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u18	Dear colleagues, in the first video Mr. Borisov says: "We are Europe's most reliable border and we protect the Schengen area 100%. On the second one, he says: "We must admit that we have failed to fulfil our commitments, we have not kept Europe's external border, we have not kept our word and we have missed migrants to Europe. " people in number. These two things say the same person in a short time. That's why I'm putting it this way: did you accidentally miss them? If it's an accident, it's because of incompetence. Or intentionally? Because if it's intentional, it's a crime called human trafficking. In both cases, it is sufficient reason to resign, not to justify yourself and say: "We have released them so that they are not in Bulgaria. You let them go because you didn't keep them at the Turkish border. You have lied to Bulgaria and Europe for so long, you have taken so many millions, you have stolen so many of them to protect the border and to live through this second confession. Let's face it, we missed them and didn't protect the border. Therefore, honourable Members, I conclude this way: the government of Borisov cannot guarantee security in the homes of the people from theft, on the streets of the killings and escaped prisoners, of the workers from smugglers, of the borders of migrants. And in the government itself, it cannot guarantee security from itself, where ministers accuse each other of committing crimes. Borisov's government cannot guarantee retribution for the criminals. It is time for the people to recompense it in the only legal way with their will and voice in early elections. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I'm opening the debate. No speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] I invite you once again, colleagues. I'm opening the debate, I expect your speeches, if not, to close them down? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u20	Do we have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u21	Yes, Mr. Tsonev is right, Mrs. Ninova went from an importer's opinion to a statement, so she is entitled to lines. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Ivanov, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I strongly object: you are wrong about the 60,000! I don't know if all the 60,000 are because of incompetence and negligence, but a large part is pure traffic, in which people from the ruling parties participated! Why do you forget that? The municipal co-ordinator of one of the nationalist parties, to tell her who NFSB is, has a confession and a conviction, a confession that it has organised trafficking of migrants! So... [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u24	Dear Mrs. Ninova, in your speech you mentioned as a breakthrough in the system of the Customs Agency (ICC)..........................the 110 cases of highly skilled cybercrime. I just want to say that's not true. They are not established by OLAF and are not a omission of the Bulgarian Customs Administration, quite the opposite. Thanks to the Bulgarian Customs Administration, in 2015 there are actually such cases and together with the Directorate General for Organized Crime, there is an analysis and six-month observations in order to be able in December 2015 Bulgaria through the Customs Agency to provide all our information with the collected evidence to OLAF to launch an investigation into the case. In other words, this is not about omissions and violations by the Bulgarian Customs Administration, but it is about pro-active actions of this administration in the fight against fraud in Europe. Because the countries from which these frauds come are identified precisely by our country. These are 53 cases from Poland, 43 cases from Hungary, 9 cases from Germany, two cases from France, two cases from Lithuania, one case from Slovakia. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u26	I agree with you, Mr. Tsonev. I even allowed two options: either criminal negligence and incompetence, or intently, in human trafficking, I mean, crimes. But both are strong enough to resign. Especially after this recognition of the Prime Minister, personally by him: "We didn't do well, we didn't fulfill our obligations, we didn't protect our borders and we missed them.................................................................. to Europe.................. You decide if it's a crime, if it's an accident, deal with it. But someone has to be politically responsible for this, except for the penalty that Mr. Tsonev told us about. As far as the BASIS system is concerned. Mrs. Stoyanova, honourable colleagues from GERB, Mr. Goranov! Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, all the countries you have listed, have they programmed, created and implemented the BASIS system in Bulgaria? [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] No! The GERB government did it! And here's what they say: "The System allows manipulation and the system has been manipulated." Sotir Tsatsarov. The system allows manipulation and thus allows it to have no trace of it. Who introduced this system? "GERB." It's not your fault Poland, Lithuania or Latvia. So at least on this topic, take the responsibility that you covered in the previous vote, because, honourable Members, the justification: there is no money for disabled children, there is no money for municipal hospitals, there is no for police officers, there is no for military officers because it is stolen, so there is no money! Tighten the system of smuggling, theft and customs and there will be money for everything. But obviously you don't want to do it because both responsibility and theft are solidarity. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. The word wants Minister Goranov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many speculations were commented on the issue with customs information systems, but the entire debate held in the National Assembly did not reach the point that Mrs. Ninova understood that the BASIS system had nothing to do with the BISIS system that OLAF was talking about. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u29	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Shopov speaking, then Mr. Karadayi. [[Noise and lines.]] Here's a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova. Please be quiet! Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u30	Mr. Goranov obviously didn't feel what he did in his anger. The Attorney General is talking about the BASIS system and says it has been breached, and Mr. Goranov has just admitted that the second system is also broken! [[Loud noise and applause.]] Passing through parliament for half a second, did you hear what he said? What Ninova's talking about, that is, the breakthrough, but he's not in BASIS, he's in BISIS. Well, congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u31	That's not a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u32	So we have two punctured systems! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u33	Please come in for a procedure. Only in the manner of conduct, without getting off the subject and the procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u34	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. You stated at the beginning of the meeting that you would follow very precisely the Rules of Procedure in today's debate and that is exactly what you did not do! It's a personal explanation! On what basis did you give Mrs Ninova a personal explanation to continue showing her incompetence from this tribune? [[Loud noise, screaming.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u35	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u36	The BASIS system has nothing to do with OLAF's system and the gaps and crimes revealed by the Bulgarian administration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u37	Please be quiet in the hall! Please cool your passions! [[Noise, lines and applause]] Here you are, Mr. Shopov, for procedure. Is it procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Shopov, or something?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u38	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u39	Only to me, Mr. Shopov. [[Noise and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u40	Madam President, it is high time we stopped this malicious practice of personal explanations. The Institute of Personal Explanation, listed in our Rules of Procedure, refers to a personal explanation when there is a debate. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is what it is? "]] When the debate implies a debate between the MPs in this Chamber. [[Heckling]] Yes, Ms. Ninova, when it comes to a minister's statement, as it was just now, and when it comes to a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, to a declaration. There's no debate ahead of us. One is a minister's statement, a minister's statement, and the other is a political declaration by political power, by a parliamentary group. And this is pure speculation, which is used very often by both colleagues and governors. Finally, we either have to make a change in the Rules of Procedure to explicitly note it, or to have a normal healthy practice as it existed in previous national meetings, because we saw on Friday how far it came to endless requests for personal explanations after a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. We were just faced with the same thing. If so, in the Legal Committee, we should also have a discussion with the Legal Department of the National Assembly, a debate on the matter and finally not come to such speculations, which lead to tensions, which arose a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Perhaps this topic will be discussed at the next Chairmanial Council. We continue with speeches. Mr. Karadaye asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This vote will not succeed, the ones for which this is only arithmetic, ignoring the complex action and the political effect of this powerful democratic instrument. I say to these now, do not be hasty to rejoice! Why have we stated in advance that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this vote? Because we cannot stand by when state government is helplessly relying on chaos; when statehood is erotic; when provocations and public tensions are at a distance; when democracy is in danger; when it comes to national security and the future of the state, the future of all Bulgarian citizens, then we cannot be indifferent. We must react, and not only must we act. Our speech is an appeal to reason and political responsibility in the name of the national cause and Euro-Atlantic values. Without reference to numerous examples, we are all aware that we are facing problems in individual structures, aspects and elements of national security. It is the duty of all politicians, of all Bulgarian citizens, of the whole democratic community concerned about peace and the future: to deal with these problems in a timely manner. In modern conditions, it is vital that national security is seen as a comprehensive logical process that brings together the creation of the strategic documentary framework, implementation with the relevant policies and plans, evaluation opportunities, review, analysis and updating. The creation of a formal strategic framework with the identification of objectives that are not realized competently and responsibly, but can provide conditions for the security of the state and its citizens. Moreover, these circumstances are, in themselves, national security risks. The challenges to national security require adequate response and action. The dynamically changing international environment, regional geopolitical processes and the state inside the country require urgent measures and actions. However, as a first condition, the implementation of the updated national security strategy from 2018. Our parliamentary group believes that the strategy is not being implemented and the breach of the single process compromises security. What do I mean? The management model generates tension and is a source of uncertainty and instability. The lack of a management programme, a clear vision and reforms is a source of instability and uncertainty. The violation of the rule of law, the erosion of democracy, the scandals in the cabinet and in the ruling coalition are a source of uncertainty and instability. The withdrawal of the government from the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country is a source of uncertainty and instability. Permanent accommodation of xenophobia, radicalisms and nationalisms, opposition and promotion of dividing lines in society are an extremely serious source of uncertainty and instability. In the last year we have seen the creation and the powerful systematic maintenance of a nutritional environment for extreme nationalism and radicalism, and the attempts and manifestations of xenophobia and nationalism to be justified, respectively legitimized. In such cases we usually hear that these criticisms and warnings are waved by an opposition political force for party purposes to be blackened, you see, the true patriots and nationalists. There are already many examples that we can easily relate to the signs of danger to our national security. The indicators for measuring tolerance in society and the obvious opposition by the government of the idea of a single Bulgarian citizenship outline worrying symptoms. All of us who are concerned about democracy and peace, about the present and the future of the country do not have the right to remain silent, but we must give strong resistance to any manifestation of hatred, xenophobia, radicalism and nationalism. What we have achieved as a peaceful transition, the model that preserves the nation and enables democracy to be established, must be manifested and imposed as the only model of prosperity. Let us not hear just abroad to present the ideas of reconciliation, of putting aside hatred and disunity, of the need to sustain peace, so that there are no destructions that are too slow and difficult to recover, but to hear them inside, in the country, with the necessary concern, will and vision. It is the only way to bring out peace and a vision for prosperity, for a common Euro-Atlantic development of the region. In order for this to happen, we must consider our mission, take our responsibility and fight decisively for the preservation of peace and democracy, for economic growth and prosperity. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are aware and consistently pursue our policy of preserving peace and stability. We have this for our cause, but you have to have this mission, and so do you. This way we will have a common cause, national goals and their realization as a common national cause to pass it on to our children. If it is true that hatred harms those against whom it is directed, it is also true that hatred harms its bearer, takes away his joy from life, from communicating with people, and from participating in the construction of tomorrow, keeping him chained up in his own fears and prejudices. In recent days we have often talked about floods, but we are talking about our daily lives flooded by hatred and aggression, opposition and division. And instead of having a conscious and functioning comprehensive process of the National Security Strategy corresponding to the complex security environment in the modern world, a vision for national objectives and priorities, a common cause, the resource requires dealing with these floods. Thus, we stay away from fundamental values that have left the truth that democracy is not a given and it must not only be won, but it must be defended and defended. We know hate and destructive energy cannot build. The Bulgarian ethnic model, whose ideologist and creator is Dr. Ahmed Dogan [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] The idea of the civil nation is unique with this: to live together all citizens of the state without distinction of ethnicity, religion and language, as recorded in our Constitution, as Vasil Levski has bequeathed. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! In the name of peace, for the sake of our common future, we must first take everyone out of the state of indifference. Everyone who is dear to our peace and Euro-Atlantic future must make their choice and fight hard against xenophobia, radicalisms and nationalisms. An hour should rather stop division and opposition, protect democracy and statehood. A government that is a source of uncertainty and instability, of division and opposition is harmful to the country. We will therefore vote against this government by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms! Thank you for your attention. [[The national representatives of the DPS stand up and applaud.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any lines to Mr. Karadaye's statement? Please take your seats, colleagues. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u44	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! From Mr. Karadaye's entire speech, I've learned that... [[Reply from DPS.]] From colleague Karadayi, from Mr. Karadayi and so on, I realized that for instability and for poor security in Bulgaria are guilty of the United Patriarchs because they participated, see, in power. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I will not stop here to oppose my colleagues, but I would just like to remind you that the United patriots are not sent to the National Assembly by their grandmother, but are sent by more than 300,000 voters and the denial of their right to participate in power is in fact the denial of representativeness, of the representation of these Bulgarians. If they're all so bad, our voters who voted for us, if they're really xenophobes and they're constantly dealing with the hate language we heard, by the way, just now, we have to throw them out of the country. Three hundred and fifty thousand people, kick us out somewhere in the African continent and everything will be perfectly safe in the country, there will be no votes of distrust and you will live a wonderful life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u45	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mr. Karadayi, by fully supporting the moral tone in your speech, which resembles Seneca's letters to Lucius. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB]] I would join the plea for reducing the level of hatred, restructuring both of our political and public thinking. I accept that these are values around which common visions could be built, a common standard of our society, in order to have a higher score. Indeed, Bulgarian society as a whole, regardless of its political affiliation, breaks huge energy in hatred, in untrue news, in manipulations. That is also the question that I would like to put to your attention with regard to the statement: why are you participating in this manipulation? You're an intelligent man, I'm sure you know a great deal of the data and the facts of the source and their true value. Why are you guys in this theatrical act? Why are you trying to instill in our society an untruth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Karadaye, my line is for you. You said that this government and the majority could not guarantee national security. On the contrary, the biggest guarantee for Bulgaria's national security is when the DPS is not in power! There's no greater guarantee than that. And when BSP and DPS are in power together, then there's no national security! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And I'm going to give examples because you really don't have the right to talk about national security. [[noise and lines]] And for those motives. I'll give you some examples.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u49	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u50	Why did this unsocialized population in Bulgaria commit these domestic crimes? Who has tolerated them for so many years? BSP and DPS, which managed, which used their votes and defended them with different law enforcement organizations.......................to keep them from the Bulgarian police and nobody. They learned to do whatever they wanted. The other argument: when BSP and DPS are in power, they stop Bulgarian citizenship for the Bulgarians from Macedonia, Albania, Serbia and other countries and immediately begin to give Bulgarian citizenship to Turkish citizens under the expatriate. That's a violation of national security, that's what! So national security is guaranteed if you are not in power, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. That was the third line. Mr. Karadaye, will there be an asshole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank my fellow Members who have made comments on this speech to confirm the anxiety and seriousness contained in our speech. The philosophy and policy that nationalists preach are responsible for instability and uncertainty. Yeah, that's true, but not just them. The main responsibility lies with those who do not hear, understand or pretend that they do not hear or understand what is happening in the country. This is much more dangerous than the nationalist policy it is clear. The next thing we need to point out, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, is that those who allow and create a nutritional environment for extreme nationalism bear greater responsibility, but others who are indifferent to what is happening are also guilty. We have no right not to oppose these phenomena today. Moreover, those who try to justify the manifestations of xenophobia and nationalism legitimize the policy of opposition and division. That's it, Mr. Kirilov. And as far as elections are concerned, yes, elections are an instrument of democracy, but they are not the whole democracy. The elections allocate the responsibility of the political forces and politicians with the presentation in the National Assembly, but democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, is mostly upholding values. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to thank the BSP for this vote of mistrust. It's okay, guys from BSP. A very important thing in democracy is votes, I always say that. This vote has many merit. The first is his predictability. We said from Ataka: at the beginning of the European Presidency one vote and at the end of the European Presidency there will be another vote. Here's the vote, expected. Another thing that this vote has dignity is that it simply will not pass, of course, and you know it, we all know it. I mean, in society, this vote won't make a hole. The other dignity of this vote, and it is the greatest for me... thank you, colleagues from BSP, this vote you are importing yourself. This vote is imported without the Turkish, nationalist party in Bulgaria DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u55	Mr. Shopov, please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u56	This is my characteristic of this party, Madam President. These characteristics are very important elements in the Bulgarian political system, spoken and political positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u57	You have no right. These are Bulgarian parties in the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u58	So that's a very great dignity of the vote. You mark huge growth. If there were times when you were with one person less than the DPS and you couldn't cast a vote of no confidence because of your number of people -- 36 -- 37 -- and they -- 38 -- you are now far more than you need. What does that mean? You refused the DPS, despite their pressure and desire to join the vote, to sign it and bring it in. This suggests that you, like all Bulgarian political parties, have realized that whoever touches the DPS, it burns, ends in Bulgarian political life. You leave them alone and give them their backs from now on. I hope this will be your permanent policy from now on. Because know this is the curse of Bulgarian political life, this is the continuation of one of the most important irresistible consequences of Turkish slavery...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u59	On the subject, Mr. Shopov! Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u60	...which we recently celebrated the 140th anniversary. Today we will talk and have a serious debate about many of the problems. Problems, of course. They existed when both DPS and BSP were in power. I remember, as early as 2009, Mr. Tsvetanov, when you were Minister of the Interior and you were in charge of this sector, we at Ataka were warning you to deal with the personnel. The BSP has the most footage still left, even 10 years ago. In the corridors of the Ministry and the Regional Ministry of Interior, including the municipal, the spirit of Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinski and the inscription for the pure heart and the cool mind still linger. So far, these consequences of this government and this presence of BSP there have not been overcome. So many of the problems that we are debating at the moment and will be debating are the result of this unresolved problem. He's an awkward one to solve. It's kind of like overcoming the consequences of Turkish slavery. This is a matter of decades, of many successive governments, many editions of the National Assembly. You saw the leader of the DPS today. Once again, I can see that you look very carefully at what you have said, read..... and I warn all Bulgarian parties about special attention. I predict you, and I predict that the DPS has fallen into such a collapse, in such a difficult state...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u61	On the subject, Mr. Shopov! Talk about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u62	From now on, the national security we're talking about, the internal order...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u63	Mr. Shopov, please! Turn to me! Let it be on the subject of the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u64	Homeland Security! This is national security! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will soon play out the ethnic map, in the most fierce and cruel way! I'm warning everyone. I hope my predictions do not come true, but in the next few months, if they reach this state of extreme hysteria, that they are not in power and that the Bulgarian patriots are nationalists, they will take actions that will be radical. I think you understand what this is about. This will be soon and we must all be ready for this moment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u66	Mr. Shopov, you're trying to wash your guilt about national security by transferring everything to the DPS. You're trying to win choices that you feel you're going to lose, too, in terms of the DPS's back. I'm just gonna tell you that you're gonna get a very big bite of DPS and you're not gonna be able to swallow this bite! Because what you do in terms of national security, by dividing the nation, that responsibility will not escape you! This is your responsibility! I also address colleagues from GERB. When you say that you involve all ethnic components in the country, do it sincerely, do not hypocrite! Because what you're doing is taking footage of the DPS that's already depreciated, and based on their power ambitions...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u67	Mr. Ebatine, let the line be on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u68	...you don't make a policy to unite the nation! And I say again what you're doing here, this policy divides the nation, does not unite the nation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u69	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u70	From your last words I seem to understand that someone has documents for property on footage, on Bulgarian citizens. Obviously, in the DPS you view the voters that way, the Bulgarian citizens. This is not about the separation of the Bulgarian nation, as you of the DPS do not feel part of the Bulgarian nation. So no division can be involved!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u71	Get that guy out of there, you hear what he's saying?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u72	On the subject of the language of hatred that you are constantly accusing us of, I do not know how to speak to you with love after all that you have done for decades, after all that I know that you have created for my country and for my people, because I have witnessed in this Chamber since the time when your honorary or I do not know which leader said in the first session that Bulgaria's path to Europe passed through Istanbul and Bosporus. Isn't that what it was like in the Bosporus?! And shortly after that he brought that list to the appropriate place, which suffered dozens and hundreds of Bulgarians who had dedicated their lives for the good of Bulgaria. He remained unpunished, and it all went through the decades in the worst way. Therefore, his followers, as you are, do not tell me about a national sense of responsibility and that you do not belong in an idea and idea to another country, that you are not its fifth column in Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u73	Mr. Shopov, we have a vote of no confidence! We have a subject! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u74	Your anger, your hatred will grow stronger! I mean Erdogan's victory yesterday in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u75	Please, Mr. Shopov! Let's get into the subject of the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u76	And this is an element of national security. From now on we need to think seriously and work for the future, prosperity and national security of Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u78	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is entirely to you! I will ask you, since you have been praying to the Patriots all day, your job as the first amongst the equal is to follow the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. If you don't know it, read it, Madam President! For five minutes Mr. Shopov spoke not on the subject, with terms and words that offend my colleagues and me personally from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and you pray to him! Who are you praying to, ma'am?! Pray to the Almighty, not to Mr. Shopov! [[Radio and laughter in DPS.]] You are a disgrace to being elected by Kardzhali, Madam President! Shame! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u79	Mr. Letifov, at least I expected that kind of attitude from you! [[Loud noise in DPS.]] I've read the rules! I'm trying to be as correct as possible with every MP! I'm not praying to anyone, I'm trying to put order in the most delicate way possible! And being chosen by Kardzhali is my dignity, Mr. Letifov! [[Applause from GERB.]] And no one has the right to question the choice of my constituents!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u80	Why are you talking from this place? How will you speak from there?! Get down on the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u81	I'm entitled to two minutes! Let's move on! Next statement, Associate Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are looking at the second vote of mistrust of the BSP and we need to speak on it. He's the second. I recall the first one. On October 28, BSP said it would demand a vote of no confidence, which was dealt with on January 25, three months. The second one was requested on June 12th. Two weeks later, it is considered in the National Assembly and we should therefore praise our colleagues from BSP because they are already working at high speed. If in the first long thought and slowly worked, they slowly acted, then in the second apparently very quickly they act, but I doubt if they think. That is why I will refer specifically to the reasons for the vote for the sector "Defense" because of understandable reasons and biases to the topic "Army and Defense." One of the main accusations of the vote is non-compliance with the management programme of defence policy objectives and state, problems and prospects for development of the Armed Forces. It's an extremely serious subject! A very heavy charge developed in two sentences with 43 words. In general, in this area BSP are supporters of the short forms in which we should say that each word is an elmase of verbality, and each sentence with deep philosophical and political revelations. I will not dwell in detail on this accusation, but I will only recall those documents which regulate the activities of the state in the sector. Next, the National Plan provides for an increase in resource security for defence costs of 2% of gross domestic product by 2024. Something that is accepted by all political forces, including the President of Bulgaria, who believes that this deadline is final and can be shortened. The second serious indictment of wrong priorities and goals in defence policy led to a loss of abilities and severe incidents developed in three sentences in 34 words. I would just like to remind you that last year Bulgaria hosted one of the greatest military exercises to use this archaic expression from the time of the 1980s. Colleagues from the DPS, write down the question of Euro-Atlantic orientation. In 2017, more military exercises were conducted in comparison to 2016. They were planned and 32 were carried out by 11% more than 2016. Speaking of priorities, here Minister Karakachanov and representatives of the majority clearly said what is the priority of acquiring abilities through the purchase of modern, modern, highly efficient fighting technique and stopping the wicked policy of buying the service equipment in the previous years. Deficit in chamber politics.. four sentences, 46 words. I'm sorry about the didactics, but I like being a stickler. In this direction, a number of essential things relating to changes to the Defence and Armed Forces Act can be listed and given the opportunity to store long-trained qualified officers who have graduated from retirement age or left the army for their return to their ranks. The next charge is a total disregard of military expertise in making important military decisions. Six sentences, 88 words. I would just like to remind you that last week, when we were looking at the two main projects for modernization of the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces and the Air Force, here were representatives of the High Military Command, using this descriptive term.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u83	Excuse me, Professor Mihov, the time of the group is running out. Should we zoom in?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u84	I'll finish it to give my colleagues a chance too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u85	Should we increase the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u86	I want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u87	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u88	In the defence sector, by reading the reasons, I am under the impression that they are written in Positano, but at some other time, for another minister and for other cases. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u89	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Any lines to the statement? First line, you have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u90	Mr. Mihov, I think you can further explain some of the facts and arguments you made from the stands. I'd appreciate it if you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u91	That's not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a line. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u93	I will be brief about the so-called review of the armed forces in the motives. Colleagues, excuse me, but it's like accusing Poland of starting the war against Germany at the end of World War II. In these motives you are using a fact that you need to be reminded of the case of the refusal of pilots to fly to MiG-29 in the autumn of last year, although Minister Karakachanov and the entire team reported on the problems with this technique, which came mainly from a Russian party for failure to comply with contracts that were not concluded by this government, by this cabinet. In the reasons you miss to say something very important that this problem is already in history that MiG-29 has guaranteed and contractual logistics service with the company that makes this system, directly concluded between the government, between the state and the contractor without intermediaries. You're missing this. You are narrating an event that has long been solved by this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u94	Thank you, Professor Mihov. We are continuing with our speeches................................................................................ come in, Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have already noticed, the Parliamentary Group is not in the Chamber and I am in front of you to explain why. My speech would have run out of just one sentence, and you've already shown it to us. [[Radio and lines.]] You've been changing tops of the government for years, accusing yourself of the same things, spending valuable parliamentary time, not realizing how much it costs to taxpayers, banging in front of cameras with the same old phrases, and that's it! This is your script for twenty years and so far nothing different has happened. A large part of the Bulgarian people continues to barely make ends meet, young people, and not so young people, are leaving the country. We barricade ourselves in the entrances of our blocks with bars as prisoners, our pensioners are still waiting for the promised by the so-called Patriots 300 leva. minimum pension and police officer in every village. Our business expected us to adopt the Law on silent consent to free him from this administrative burden, but he remained lied to by both the government and the opposition. They also wait for the people in the villages, who are robbed and abused daily, waiting for the people in the cities who drive along the broken roads. You ask: what are they waiting for? Well, action is waiting, colleagues, not fairy tales! Today's debate will not solve any of the problems listed here. Your empty talk from this tribune today will not help any Bulgarian citizen. Colleagues from BSP, a few days ago you yourself said that you were importing this vote just to give a signal, not that you wanted it to pass. You yourself admit that today will be lost. Then why are you doing this? Is it because of the cameras? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's turn off the cameras and see if this debate lasts longer than a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u96	GERB asked for the cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u97	Your actions are so transparent that it is insulting to our people, and he is not stupid at all, and he has had enough of this hypocrisy. If you really want to do something about security, go to your polls now and follow the example of Veselin Mareshki and Volja, and fill at least one hole in the roads [[noise, lines and cheers]] which are now like ruins, but not ruins, which are a tourist attraction, but ones of which we are ashamed. That's exactly what Mr. Mareshki is doing in Varna right now. That's exactly what our colleague Slavi Netsov is doing right now... [[Noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u98	On the subject, Mr. Hristov. On the subject of Security. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u99	Mr. Minister, if you please, then you can replicate. As I said, our colleague Slavi Netsov is currently in the montan village of Yakimovo in the 75-year-old Tsvetan Milanov, robbed tens of times in a year, and except without his furniture, without his money, he has left without his domestic animals. This man is forced to sleep with his two cocks to keep them safe. That's ridiculous! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Mrs. Ninova, several times lately you have mentioned this fellow of yours as an example of domestic crime in our country. Did your talk help him? [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] No! We help by acting, and we don't talk. Personally, I've been dealing with his problem for the past few days, and I can assure you that your words don't keep him warm at all. Your actions are only for the media and your actual inaction is cynical. Get out of this room all of you, go to the people, give them a hand, solve at least one of their problems. Don't stay here for hours talking for nothing. It's not that hard, I assure you. We of Volja and Veselin Mareshki, in the last nearly 30 years with our business work have made it possible for our compatriots to save at least a little of their money and not to enter the cartels that you have all created and tolerated. Less talk, more action only to prove that you care about this people. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from Volja....we offer today's wages to all of us to be donated to children with disabilities because their mothers have been lying to you with idle talk for several weeks. [[Replication by National Representative Cornelia Ninova. Noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u100	Mr. Hristov, let's get back to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u101	Last year, Mrs. Nino, when the mothers were back in front of parliament, only we in the House invited them for a conversation and no one else paid attention to them. [[Replicate from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Noise and shout.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u102	Mr. Christov! Let me just remind you that we are currently looking at a vote of no confidence in the government, and the subject is clear, so please enter the subject. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u103	Thank you, Madam President. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u104	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u105	On the topic of Security, mothers certainly do not feel safe at the moment. They feel cheated by both the BSP and the government, who have so far done absolutely nothing. Why, fellow Members, have you slept through your promise to these mothers, and why are you now fooling yourself again that you will do something to the left and to the right? [[Loud noise, lines and shouts.]] I set this example just to show again and again that words without action make no sense, and the system kills with inactivity. The people will already judge by the deeds, colleagues, not by the empty promises. He's been on them for a long time. It is time to understand it, and if you are not uncomfortable, continue with this unnecessary debate. We of the Will prefer to do something useful, albeit a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u107	Dear Mr. Christov! You left because you want to be useful, so I will advise you as soon as Mr. Mareshki has finished filling the holes, to go to guard the Bulgarian prisons, because there are no cleaning ladies there anymore. Then he goes to solve the two brutal murders on which there is no discovery yet, then he can walk through customs to see who manipulates the systems where he or she manipulates both. In order to be useful, then Mr. Mareshki can take a walk and examine the state of the Bulgarian servicemen and, if necessary, make them personal uniforms because they do not have one. I don't know, dear Mr. Hristov, you are no longer gone, what it means to be useful, but the MPs are not useful to fill the holes, and neither are the clerks to sit next to the holes. It's the government's job. It doesn't do it, and that's why if you're an opposition, you should vote it out. Everything else isn't even demagogy! I don't know if you know what the government is doing, but you certainly don't know what the work of a Bulgarian MP is. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm sorry Mr. Christov got out. It is not bad to remember how Mr. Mareshki was sent by Boyko Borisov to save Lokomotiv (Plovdiv) and poured over 1 million. lv. there on his recommendation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u110	Mr. Pawnov, I remind you that the topic is Security, so that the line is in the direction of the topic of vote! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u111	I appeal to Mr. Hristov, who praised here Mareshki, who was a servant of Boyko Borisov, was performing all his errands and is now playing opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u112	Third line? I can't see. I don't see Mr. Christ for the back. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ivanov made a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u113	Let GERB speak, protect their government. Mr. Tsvetanov, protect your government!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-26.u114	Statements? Colleagues, if there are no speeches, I will end the debate. Last call for speeches. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor for a declaration. Loud noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! [[Extending loud noise. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! Since I have already closed the debate on the vote, according to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote on the Draft Decision must be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations. The vote will take place on Friday at 9.00 and will be the first point. Tomorrow, June 27, 2018, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. ..on a regular basis for a meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
