ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, in relation to the provision of § 7, para. 1 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 7 of 2018 in force on 23 January 2018, according to which, within one month of the entry into force of the Law, the National Assembly elects a Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision for adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics has been an importer since 1 February 2018, and I propose that the point become point two for today. Vote 172 MPs: 124, none, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by its Order has authorised the dispatch of a military ship with its state-owned arms and crew of soldiers to conduct joint training in the composition of the permanent NATO naval group No 2 between 1 and 20 May 2018 in the Black Sea. For the time of preparation, the ship will participate in Romania's underwater exercise and will visit the city of Constanta The notification was received on 31 January 2018. No 803-09-4 and granted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OLD MIGRATION AND THE TRUE MOBILITY. For a report by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, please come in, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Lazar Lazarov and Hristo Simeonov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u3	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 147 MPs: for 146, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 24 January 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hristo Simeonov, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market and Labour Mobility, Mr. Atanas Kolchakov, State Expert at the same Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and experts from social partners' organizations. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova. According to the reasons of the Draft Law, it is intended to introduce by 23 May 2018 Bulgaria in its national legislation the requirements of Directive of the European Union No 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to conduct scientific research, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the programmes The new directive reforms the legislative framework of the European Union regulating the rights and obligations of researchers, students, students, volunteers, unpaid and paid interns and au pair workers in the EU. The Directive includes the provisions of Directive 2004/114/EC of 13 December 2004 on conditions for admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of education, school exchange, free training or volunteering and Directive 2005/71/EC of 12 October 2005 on a specific procedure for admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of carrying out research activities, which, until its adoption, were the legal basis for the implementation of EU policy in the field of admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of education, student exchange, free training or volunteering and carrying out research. Directive 2016/801 takes into account the need to adapt the existing European legal framework in the field of legal migration to facilitate the access of the abovementioned migrant groups to the territory of the European Union. In addition, it aims to increase its attractiveness as a place of work in the field of research, higher education and other cultural and social exchanges. The repealed two directives The main objectives set by the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law are: 1. addressing identified problems related to attracting researchers and students as well as new categories of paid and unpaid third-country nationals; 2. to cover existing outstanding issues concerning residence and access to the Bulgarian labour market of researchers, students, paid and unpaid interns; 3. to assess the appropriateness of the establishment of legal regulation for volunteers and workers under the programmes. 4. increase the total number of foreign students, including citizens of the European Union more than 5% of the total number of students, as well as attract researchers. The effects that will be achieved if the bill is adopted are as follows: - improved legal regulation of issues relating to equal treatment, working conditions, wage, dismissal protection, collective bargaining, freedom of association and inclusion, education and vocational training, recognition of diplomas, social security, including health care and other for third-country nationals, researchers, students, interns and volunteers; - the introduction of eased mobility conditions for researchers and students within the European Union; - Regulation of the status of paid interns outside the case of intra-corporate transfer; - regulation of the possibility of access of students - third-country nationals - to the labour market after graduation; - promoting the mobility of a qualified workforce from third countries; - compliance with the time limits for notification of national acts transposing European Union Directive 2016/801. A partial impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. A reference has been applied by the Ministry of Justice, according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the compliance of the Bill with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions and practices of the above-mentioned laws. A reference has also been applied to reflect the opinions received after the public consultation of the Bill. It shows that no comments have been received in the context of the public consultation. The package of supporting documents shall include a table of compliance with Directive of the European Union (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of scientific research, studies, training, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the programmes "Au pair'. The Commission received a minutes of a meeting of the National Employment Promotion Council held on 18 January 2018. The Council supports the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility with notes made at the meeting and proposes that the draft should be discussed by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The Commission received the opinion of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. In principle, the organization does not object to the proposed bill. In view of the fact that it does not affect the relief of the import and employment regime for foreign workers and in view of the needs of the labour market, the AICB propose specific amendments to five articles of the Bill. The Commission received the opinion of KT Supporta. It declares that it supports the adaptation of the current European legal framework in the field of legal migration and believes that this will increase the attractiveness of the European Union and, in particular, of the Republic of Bulgaria as a place of work in the field of research, higher education and other cultural and social exchange programmes. At the same time, in the applied motives and impact assessment KT "Support" failed to find an analysis of the expected effects on the Bulgarian labour market. In addition to this deficiency, KT "Support" found that there are paragraphs that need to be definitely corrected. The opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria expresses support for the proposals in the various paragraphs of the bill, which complement and improve the status of secondment and dispatch, as well as the various definitions and concepts introduced in the directive regarding intern, volunteer, student and so on. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria believes that there are texts that should not be adopted without corrections, such as the new Article 38a, the amendment of Art.14 and others. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov and Svetlana Angelova. They expressed their approval for amendments to the Bill concerning the introduction of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016. Dr. Ademov asked a question relating to § 10 of the Bill concerning the amendment of art. 14 of the Law, where instead of an obligation to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for opinions from the social partners in cases where the employer wishes to obtain permission to work for foreigners more than 10% of the average number of employed Bulgarian and European citizens for the previous 12 months, is added. In response, importers recalled that such a situation existed before 2016 and did not consider that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was deprived of the right to request opinions from the social partners on this important issue. Mrs. Angelova expressed her opinion that the adoption of the Bill will support the work on another important bill, the one about volunteering, and there should be no concern about collusions between the two laws. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 21 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman! On the basis of Decision No 2 of 30 January 2018 on Constitutional Case No 8 I urge you to remove Mr. Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev from the Chamber [[GERB noise and lines]] since he has no right to be in this room. I think if we have to be in line with the Constitution, you have to fulfill that wish of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Yesterday we discussed this issue. I guess we'll get the same result today. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I strongly object, Mr President, to allowing such procedures by MPs in the Chamber of this Parliament. I ask all such speakers to clarify that, once they are in this Chamber, they must have sufficient competence to know when the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly is terminated. Please explain to them that the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly is terminated after three legal facts occur when it comes to resignation. The first fact is the resignation, the second fact is the decision of the National Assembly, the third fact is the decision of the Central Election Commission, announcing the term of office to be suspended and a mandate to the next, so that if someone here will come out and say................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have very accurately listed the cases in which the term of office is terminated. I guess my colleague Simov heard them, I don't have to repeat them. Personal explanation? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, if you feel offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've been wondering in the last few days why my BSP colleagues hate me so much, and the only reason I found out is that every day I'm wearing a blue tie. And today, if you notice, I'm wearing a red tie specifically to see if that's not the reason. [[Radio, applause from GERB.]] And, Mr. Chairman, if I may add to Mr. Simov's proposal, I suggest that you not only remove me from the room, call the police here, handcuff me or give me straight to the firing squad. In the history of their party there are 30 thousand such convicts without trial and sentence, one more or less will not affect them! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u11	My fellow Members, I have one request not to abuse this procedure. My request is to all MPs so that he can normally finish work on Friday. If everyone wants to say what they're up to in the morning, they can enter this procedure and we can proceed in the usual way. Who wants the word for procedure? Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will not overdo it, but I think that this call should also be addressed to the left of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u13	I gave it to everyone, Mr. Lazarov, if you've paid attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u14	Yes, not only with the procedures, but also on the subject that is being put, perhaps you should remind yourself, or order, you have access to the information system, but remind your colleagues on the left side that December is also voting on the resignation of an MP. Six people from the BSP voted against and seven abstentions for this resignation! And now they're asking that question. One of those who spoke also voted against this resignation, Mr. President. It speaks of double morality, it speaks of hypocrisy! He's just talking about hypocrisy! The Constitutional Court's decision is clear. Anyone who doesn't understand, sit down, get acquainted, read. It just doesn't make sense to bring this up anymore. The Constitutional Court's decisions have no retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any other statements in the form of a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Simov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman! Since I see that they do not want to comply with the Constitution in this Chamber, I suggest that, at least, in order to be consistent with the basic law, we vote on a procedure to allow Mr. Delyan Dobrev to enter the Chamber, so that there are reasons for him to be here. Thank you. [[Strong noise, lines, calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u17	Mr. Simov, I suggest that we no longer undermine the dignity of the MPs and conclude the procedural dialogue. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Gokov, a statement? They didn't pass, we still have two more reports. We are moving on to the discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. The next report belongs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Here you are to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u18	♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At its meeting on 31 January 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Hristo Simeonov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Hristo Simeonov. In its presentation it noted that the proposed amendments to the Draft Law were intended to introduce by 23 May 2018. Bulgaria into its national legislation Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals with the aim of conducting scientific research, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes, educational projects and work under the programmes "au pair." Directive (EU) 2016/801 takes into account the need to adapt the existing legal framework in the field of legal migration in order to legally regulate the access of the abovementioned groups to the territory of the European Union. The repealed two Directives (2005/71/EC and 2004/114 EC) identified weaknesses relating to visa procedures, difficulties in accessing the labour market after completion of research, education, mobility restrictions for researchers and students, and others. The Law provides for the Final Provisions amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, the Law on Pre-school and School Education, the Law on Youth, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Asylum and Refugees and the Law on Promotion of Employment. A form for prior partial impact assessment and consultation by the Ministry of Justice on the compliance of the draft with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights has been attached to the Bill. The Commission also received an opinion from the Ministry of Interior, which supports the Bill, but considers that some of the norms must be refined to achieve synchronization with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801. It is found that the Law includes the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Standards, which legally systematically falls within the scope of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11........ 2 votes against............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. We move on to the next report from a committee, and it belongs to the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u20	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above-mentioned Bill. The meeting was attended by Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science; Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Mr. Hristo Simeonov, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market and Labour Mobility. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed amendments and additions aim to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to conduct research, studies, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the programmes of Directive (EU) 2016/801 takes into account the need to adapt the existing European legal framework in the field of legal migration to facilitate the access of the abovementioned migrant groups to the territory of the European Union. The current Bulgarian legislation covers partly the requirements of the Directive and there is a need for amendments and additions to cover all issues concerning the residence and access to the Bulgarian labour market of third-country nationals in order to conduct research, study, internship, volunteering, programmes for student exchange or educational projects and work on the programs. The proposed Draft Law, in addition to amendments and additions to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, shall also be made in the provisions of art. Article 9 213 of the Preschool and School Education Act. In addition, additions are made to the Additional Provisions, which reflect the relevant legal concepts used in the Directive, such as a scientific worker, a researcher, a researcher, a researcher's organization, a student's, a school, a student's and others. On the draft in the Commission, an opinion was received by the Ministry of Education and Science. The same was presented to the MPs by Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. The opinion expresses principled support for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. At the same time, it sets out observations under § 22, § 43 and § 44. According to the opinion submitted by the new version of Article 22 proposed in § 22. 36 The forms of the admission agreement between the research organisation and the researcher are wrongly narrowed down and limited only to a contract of employment. Also, the introduction by § 43 of legal definitions of concepts of established legal importance in special Bulgarian laws in the field of education as the student, the school, the student. In addition, in some of the proposed definitions there are deficiencies, such as the definition of a school in which municipal ones are missed. Next, the opinion notes that the new version of Article 44 proposed by § 44. 24c of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria unduely restricts the circle of persons who can receive permission for long stay only to students. The opinion also expresses deep reservations about the proposed amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. With the proposed changes in art. 9 it is without justification that the members of the families of persons with allowed long-term, permanent or long-term residence are given the right to study for free in public or municipal schools. The discussion included the national representative Anelia Klisarova, who expressed an opinion on the need for more investments in the field of science and education in order to support the development of Bulgarian scientists and increase their competitiveness. Ms. Milena Damyanova noted that between the first and second votes of the Draft it is necessary to make proposals to refine the texts according to the notes made by the Ministry of Education and Science, which was supported by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with a result of 12 votes, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. The next report is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its meeting on 31 January 2018, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Atanas Kolchakov, State Expert at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Mira Dukova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importers Mr. Lazar Lazarov presented the main highlights in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. According to the reasons of the Draft Law, it is intended to introduce by 23 May 2018 Bulgaria in its national legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to conduct research, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the The adoption of the Law will achieve not only compliance with the requirements of European Union legislation in the field of labour migration, but also improved legal regulation of matters relating to the employment and residence of researchers, students, interns, students and volunteers. New editorials are proposed to make the necessary amendments and additions on employment, without permission to work for researchers and after their research projects have been completed. This also applies to the employment of members of their families, as well as to the mobility and employment of students. The conditions for equal treatment of researchers, students, interns, students and volunteers, as well as the members of the families of Bulgarian, European and foreign citizens, including asylum or international protection, are introduced and defined for the latter. The equal treatment of foreigners admitted under international employment and labour migration contracts and in the case of registration of short-term employment is also agreed. The status of paid interns is regulated. The conditions for access to the labour market without a job permit and the interns under the terms of an internship contract shall be regulated. The employer or host organisation's commitment to returning workers from third countries is confirmed. The new Regulation (EU) 2016/589 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 April 2016 on the European Network of Employment Services, the access of workers to mobility services and their further integration into the labour markets and amending Regulations (EU) No 492/2011 and (EU) No 1296/2013 is bound by the provisions of the new Regulation (EU) No 2016/589 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The bill offers protection for dismissal, collective bargaining, freedom of association and inclusion, education and vocational training. Approves diplomas and social security for third-country nationals; There are also a number of provisions aimed at improving the regulations in the field of the employment of foreigners in Bulgaria by removing established non-compliances of a legal and technical nature and enabling better application of the existing norms. The additional provisions of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, where the relevant legal concepts used in the Directive are reflected, such as a volunteer, a researcher, a researcher, a student, a school and a student. The importer believes that full compliance of Bulgarian legislation with the Directive will be achieved after the adoption of amendments and additions to the regulations for the implementation of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria after the adoption of proposals Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. A preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. The Ministry of Justice shall apply a reference according to which the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the ECHR and the ECHR practice. In the subsequent discussion the People's Representative Svetlana Angelova expressed the opinion that the adoption of the bill will support the work on another important bill, the one about volunteering, and there should be no concern about the collusions between the two laws. Vesela Lecheva described the Bill as important to the legislation in Bulgaria and proposed that the texts referred to in paragraphs 9 and 10 be refined. In response, Mr. Lazar Lazarov, on behalf of the importers, said that he did not consider that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was deprived of the right to request opinions and defined the structural dialogue with employers and social partners of particular importance. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 12-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u24	♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The meeting was also attended by Mr. Atanas Kolchakov, State Expert at the Department of Labour and Labour Mobility at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers, Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on conditions for the entry into and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers and Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals in intra-corporate transfer. In the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act, Directive 2009/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 laying down minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals and Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a uniform procedure for applying third-country nationals for a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State. The Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act also introduced provisions from four previous EU directives on the free movement of people and legal migration. By 23 May 2018, Bulgaria shall introduce in its national legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of scientific research, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the programmes of Directive (EU) 2016/801 takes into account the need to adapt the existing European legal framework in the field of legal migration to facilitate the access of the abovementioned migrant groups to the territory of the European Union. In addition, it aims to increase the attractiveness of the European Union as a place of work in the field of research, higher education and other cultural and social exchange programmes. Currently, the provisions of Directive 2004/114/EC and Directive 2005/71/EC are introduced in Chapter 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and in Chapter 2 of Section VI of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. In this respect, it is necessary to include the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801 in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which will make the necessary amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and in some other related laws, regulations. The current Bulgarian legislation covers partly the requirements of the Directive, but the existing provisions in the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and in the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria need amendments to cover all issues concerning residence and access to the Bulgarian labour market of researchers, students, paid and unpaid interns, as well as certain provisions concerning students and volunteers. The proposed Draft Law aims to solve the above problems, with it in addition to amendments and additions to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are made in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, in the Law on Pre-school and School Education, in the Law on Youth and others. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 9 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. That was the latest committee report. I open the debates on the bill tabled at first reading. You have the floor, honourable Members. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! The shortage of quality labour in Bulgaria is not an irrefutable fact, but is a serious problem for Bulgarian enterprises and employers, and will be a problem in the future. Large employers' organisations agree that the shortage of human resources is becoming a brake for the development of the economy, and the government has no vision of how to solve it, although in the field of employment policy the government has set itself a task: achieving a better match between demand and supply of labour and limiting the shortage of staff for qualified employment. And our economy continues to develop at a good pace, not thanks to this government and not to this majority, but to external factors, and this will require more and more well-educated and highly qualified personnel. As short-sighted as this government is, it is clear to him that if urgent measures are not taken by the state, these difficulties in the labour market will soon become a crisis, and if we are now talking about a shortage of qualified personnel and we do not take urgent measures, things will be out of control within ten years and there is likely to be a shortage of the offered work at all. And in one such situation is offered to the attention of the National Assembly Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. This project directly does not solve the problem described by me, but is directly related to it. The law on labour migration and labour mobility has been in force since 21 May 2016, but now Bulgaria must introduce in our national labour law the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 and by 23 May 2018. This is precisely the main purpose of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. The necessary amendments and additions shall be made in order to synchronise and arrange for the employment of common workers, members of their families and students, as well as their mobility in the European Union. Conditions for access to the labour market and interns, conditions for equal treatment of researchers, students, interns, students and volunteers, as well as members of their families, of Bulgarian, European and foreign nationals, including those who have received asylum or international protection, shall be laid down. Equal treatment of foreigners admitted under international employment and labour migration contracts in cases of registration of short-term employment as well as access of workers to mobility services and further integration into the labour market is also agreed. The necessary additions are made in relation to the legal definitions of certain concepts. This bill for amendment and supplement also amends several other laws in the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and related regulations in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, in the Law on Pre-school and School Education, in the Law on Youth and Sports and so on. Despite the careful review of the Bill, the reasons for it and the partial preliminary impact assessment, I have not found any analysis of the expected effects on the Bulgarian labour market. For example, I cannot be sure that these changes will have a positive impact on the access of qualified workers to our labour market, whether a wider opening of the national labour market will not be detrimental to the Bulgarian worker, whether it will not retain the levels of salaries for which there is at present any chance to be increased, whether the opportunities of Bulgarians in the labour market are really exhausted, because careful analysis of the statistics and data of the employment agency show that neither the free jobs for highly qualified employees are so many, nor the unemployed with high qualifications are so few? After careful reading of the proposals for change, it becomes apparent that amendments to other texts that transpose the 2016 Directive into the Bulgarian legislation, in this case through amendments to this law, are also inserted in other texts that do not concern the subject matter and objectives of this directive. I'll give you an example of a few things that bother me about these changes. First, § 9 of the Bill cancels para. 5 of art. 13 of the Law, that is, the financial liability of the return of the illegally beaten third-country national employed, which so far has been the responsibility of his employer. What is the purpose of this cancellation? To stimulate employers to employ illegally staying in Bulgaria or to burden the country with expenses for returning to its homeland? There is no way to support such a philosophy, for which it is not clear what is motivated, what improves, what relieves it and why it eases it. Second, the next § 10 provides for a change in art. 14, para. 2 of the Law, which leads to cancellation of the obligation, which is imposed on the Minister of Labour and Social Policy... to ask for opinions from the social partners in cases where the employer wishes to receive permissions for the work of foreigners more than 10% of the average number of employed Bulgarian and European citizens for the previous 12 months, and the wishing person may request....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Subjectivism and a prerequisite for corruption is introduced. These two proposals do not accept either me or the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) because they have nothing to do with transposition of the legislation of this directive, nor do they contribute to improving the picture of our national labour market towards overcoming the lack of highly qualified personnel. In conclusion, I will declare that I and the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and I will not support the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility submitted by the Council of Ministers. Provided that the majority supports it despite our disagreement and arguments, we will make specific proposals between the first and second votes to remove the texts contained in § 9 and § 10. We really need easier access of foreign workers to our labour market, but this should not be at the expense of Bulgarian labour. The Bulgarian labour market needs protection, needs legislation to be balanced between the interests of employees, on the one hand, and employers, on the other hand, and to guarantee equality. I thank you for your attention and hope that you have heard at least our arguments by which we call on you to reject paragraphs 9 and 10 and at least in the second vote to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for lines, honourable MPs. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Gokov, I took the liberty of making that line because of a fact that you mentioned in your speech. I will not comment on many or few unemployed people in Bulgaria, but to be honest with our sympathizer members, I would like to say that in recent years several industries have not developed well because of the lack of personnel in Bulgaria. Once, Bulgarian agriculture and the food industry produced a huge amount. Today it's 15% of what was once produced. The main reason for this is that people are missing for work in agriculture. Many of my friends, who produce weapons and equipment in the defence industry, fail to find, unfortunately, trained personnel and work with either a reduced staff or use low-qualified workers for this. And Bulgaria has seen huge growth in production and trade in recent years. I would also like to mention another branch of the light industry, the tailoring industry. Several of the Bulgarian producers have already opened their factories abroad, mainly because of the lack of specialists. We still have to be correct and keep that in mind. Indeed, there is not enough footage in Bulgaria, the specialists. In that regard, it was my speech. Otherwise, I will vote according to the decision of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. A line, Mrs. Angelova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I am surprised by the speech you have just made in this Chamber and the criticism you have given to the Bill, which we are currently looking at because, at a meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the MPs, members of the Social Committee of your parliamentary group, unanimously supported the Draft. You then had the opportunity to give an opinion on the bill under consideration, but none of you, including you, as a prominent coffer in the social sphere, did take the floor on this bill and silently, unanimously, all supported the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill. So my question to you is: what made you suddenly at 180 degrees to change your mind about this extremely important bill, whose main purpose, as has been said by all reports, is the introduction of an extremely important European Union directive in which Bulgaria has an important participation?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gökov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Mr. Panchev, what you are saying is a mantra that is repeated in our society for the labour market. I do not deny that there is a lack of truly qualified personnel and the Bulgarian business needs such qualified personnel, but tell me what does the state do in this case to requalify, to acquire greater qualifications all registered as long-term unemployed at the employment desks? Do you think solving the problem of lack of personnel is bringing labor outside? [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Because I can give you an example of my practice at the Bureau of Labour when...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u33	Guys, it's so loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u34	...when 2007, 2008 came to me employers in Stara Zagora and wanted to make a move before the Ministry to amend the Law and import labor from Vietnam. They insisted on it, and only a year or two later they sent to the Bureau of Labour notices of mass dismissals, that is, releasing a larger amount of labour. Thus, the issue of skilled labour and especially of its import outside is extremely serious and a public debate must be held on it at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation between trade unions and employers with the mediation of the state. Because labour is a special kind of commodity, it is not like cheese or any other commodity from which we do not have to produce anymore today, tomorrow we do not need and we stop manufacturing it. In labour policy, there are long-term prospects. And just two words to Mrs. Angelova. I don't think there was such unanimous support. Thank you for what you said. I don't think I am, but I have a view of the social system, of the labour market at all, and no one has ever defended the bill with such heat. It is true that it transposes Directive, but tell me, what do § 9 and § 10 have to do with the transposed Directive? If you can tell me and point out a link between these two paragraphs and the directive, I would be happy to vote for this PID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Statements? Mr. Baychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u36	It's obviously an interesting subject, and it's causing debate. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As it is already clear, the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility on conditions for the entry and residence of foreigners in order to employ highly qualified employees. We believe that if the proposals are accepted, the door will be opened to foreign specialists from third countries in positions of different sectors, but this will be an obstacle to our specialists, as only they will suffer, given the wages that are in our country and in our neighbouring countries. The Bulgarian legislation allows for the recruitment of highly qualified specialists from third countries. This is the so-called procedure "Synthesis card" which includes a mandatory market test for the lack of Bulgarian citizens. What is more interesting is that in 2015, with legislative changes, another additional regime was established to employ highly qualified third-country nationals. It allows employers to import workers without conducting a market test for Bulgarian specialists to be employed by including single groups of professions in a list of professions for which there is a shortage of highly qualified specialists. In accordance with art. 18, para. 2 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, the list is endorsed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the basis of a reasoned proposal of the national representative employers' organisations and after discussion at the National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the National Council for Employment Promotion. The list may be updated once a year only until 31 January, according to art. 18, para. 2 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Our opinion is that there are enough highly qualified specialists in our country, but because of the low levels of wages they do not work in their specialty or go abroad, where the remuneration is at times higher. I would like to introduce you to some statistics that are on the official pages of the relevant institutions. According to the National Statistical Institute in Bulgaria for the third quarter of 2017 there are 35 200 unemployed people with higher education, 66 700 with secondary vocational education and 99 600 with secondary education. According to the National Insurance Institute in November 2017, the unemployed in Bulgaria with the right to monetary compensation are 28 627 people with higher education and 20 917 people with semi-high and secondary education. In other words, it is difficult to talk about some trend and persistent deficit of highly qualified personnel. In the attached documents, we did not find an opinion of the Employment Agency that proves that a deficit of highly qualified specialists is actually registered. On the contrary, we see unemployment among them. On the other hand, according to data from the International Monetary Fund by 2012 in the direction of East to West Bulgaria has migrated 16% of the working-able population, which has led approximately to a reduction of our gross domestic product by 7%. That is why the Bulgarian Socialist Party proposes to work systematically and intensively towards the development of the social dialogue of negotiations at industry level and branch collective bargaining. To date, it should be an hour rather to increase the minimum wage for the country, because achieving this goal is completely realistic in the medium term, with increased consumption due to the increased minimum wage can make a significant contribution to improving the situation in the Bulgarian economy and the standard of living in Bulgaria. If we need to clearly define the problem, it is in offering low wages by employers and unattractive additional conditions that lead to further reduction of wages. Therefore, the Bulgarian Socialist Party does not believe that imports of highly qualified specialists from third countries are required. Currently there is no evidence that the Republic of Bulgaria has no opportunity to hire the necessary employees of the country by offering a decent pay. The amendments proposed in the Draft are largely unacceptable as the main one on which we focus and focus is precisely the elimination of the mandatory nature of the norm Minister for Labour and Social Policy to require the opinion of the nationally represented employers' and trade unions' organisations. The proposed amendment should be rejected because, in practice, a condition for a corrupt environment is being created. The mandatory nature of the norm is a guarantee for the protection of labour-legal relations between social partners. Only through social dialogue can investment activity be encouraged and a balance of the labour market is maintained. This is a basic principle in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and international labour organisations. The Bulgarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of a bill enabling the employment requirements of citizens, foreign persons, including third countries, to be regulated in a law regulating access to the labour market. We cannot support procedures aimed at facilitating the employment regime of highly qualified specialists from third countries, which contributes to an increase in domestic unemployment and exports of our specialists to the European Union. With the withdrawal of the requirement to conduct market tests, the recruitment process is violated and the growing need for highly qualified professionals missing on the labour market in a number of sectors of the economy is distorted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. [[At the bottom of the Chamber, MPs are talking.]] Before I give Mr. Shopov the floor for a statement, I would like to ask the discussion club in the back of the Chamber to temporarily terminate its activities and continue it at a more appropriate time. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have been worried that this issue, this issue will pass in the absence of interest, as it has come to this House today with the appearance of some representatives of employers' organizations on TV screens or members of the Unions respectively, because this debate in other countries, understand those who are our partners, is always extremely turbulent. It is literally one of the fundamental problems and it is a problem that separates societies and has been going on for decades. It is a matter of philosophy, to a very large extent a question of ideological choice for the path on which states move. I think today we are starting this topic in this House, and it will stand years ahead even for decades as a major problem on which one party or another will identify as ideological vectors as ideological bases. He honors the opposition that today in this House I stand quietly, as a political force sharpens the problem. This is the role of the opposition in such cases to put the issue in the way it is putting it today and speaking, not loudly and for imaginary reasons and reasons to stand opposition. It's a problem and it's very serious. Personally, I have always been worried and goosebumped when in the Chamber of the Bulgarian National Assembly we do something according to a directive, as is the case here. The adoption of an act by the National Assembly on a directive has always been for me, to put it mildly, disturbing and I have been very careful about what this directive is and what it says we do. We have to say that this directive also has a very strong ideological significance and brings us back into the liberal approach to the problems of this old, worn-out, banal and very false formula for the free movement of people and capital, in this case we are talking about people, because this is an old liberal approach We can argue whether what I say is true or there are nuances, but basically this is the line, this is the goal and, notice, in Bulgaria who has an interest in, so to say, the bill that is proposed and who does not. They have a benefit and it is in the interest of the big employers. We have seen the position on the screens of the so-called, not accidentally saying so-called, but this is another topic. Why do I say this, called employers' organizations and, on the one hand, the interests of the Bulgarian workers. This is how I generalize this group of Bulgarian working citizens. The aim here is to push wages down in this way by bringing in foreign labour, in which there is no dispute, and therefore employers' organizations are willing to accept such measures with non-concealing approval. On the other hand, the goal is to move in, to bring foreign workers, people, elements that are part of a settlement wave, part of bringing these people under the assumption that they will work temporarily, but permanently. We are talking about migration here because many of those who will be given the opportunity to work in Bulgaria will also come from those countries, from which, for one reason or another, if you want with a fence, we are trying to protect ourselves. There's no doubt about that. If there is a shortage of labour, we must name, say what are the reasons, and this debate, which from now on will be led in society, and in our society as well as in other countries, must tell the truth about what is the reason for this. The reason is the mass departure of Bulgarian specialists, employees, workers who are going to work for foreign economies of other countries, the artificial maintenance of income levels at this level at which they are currently present, the reluctance of employers to give decent remuneration to employees, and hence we can now bring out the real measures that can lead to this state. First, creating conditions for the return of Bulgarians who have gone abroad and working there, something that has been said for some time, but complex measures should be taken, not separate actions that will lead to this goal. The second is to give citizenship to Bulgarian citizens from Bulgarian ethnic communities who live in more neighboring and neighbouring countries or more distant countries. That's the other way around. The third way, the most secure, the most effective, is to continue the policy, which we have now started, took action more drasticly, shockingly, striking increases in incomes, on payments, on the salaries of Bulgarian citizens. This is the way to get out of the situation, from the situation we find ourselves lacking personnel, and any such directives, bringing in workers and employees, I would say, promiscuously, because the percentages that are determined.10 percent, all of this is something that will not work and will not be in the national interest. I am therefore pleased that a debate is finally taking place on the subject, and from now on this debate must deepen and continue in society on all these issues and problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for lines, honourable MPs. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Mr. Shopov, first of all, I will agree with almost everything you have said so far from this tribune. At one point, I even wondered if you were in the ruling majority, or if you were in the opposition, but that's another subject, and I don't want to go down that plane. But you said a few things that, not that I'm worried about, I'm interested in why you're thinking like this. Drastic, shocking, shocking increase in the salaries of Bulgarian citizens. I think you're the only one who sees it from the United Patriarchs, the shocking increase in income. No one denies that incomes are moving up, but it remains to move down, or to hold on, under these favourable economic conditions I must tell you that in Bulgaria, economic development is not due in any way to the government and this majority that governs. Believe me, it is! I would like to draw your attention to you and to your parliamentary group that, along with this directive, which I think you have criticised rightly, but you have not taken into account the two texts under § 9 and § 10. See what text exists now in our legislation: "Art. 13. The employer shall bear the costs of returning the illegally staying third-country national. And now we offer this para. 5 of art. 13 drop out. I said, what are we doing with this thing? We encourage employers to employ illegally residents or we burden the state with expenses because of the incorrect attitude of an employer?! The other paragraph for the ten percent. It is also nice to correct it, because it is one of the main defenses of the Bulgarian labour market and the Bulgarian labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. If there are no other lines, you have the floor for the dot, Mr. Shopov. I don't see any other lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u42	Mr. Gokov, when it comes to ideology, there are no leaders, no opposition. Here the question is domestic, Bulgarian. We are talking about protecting national interest, and in this situation we need to be objective, no matter who is what in this room. That is why I have said that both the opposition and you can come useful conservative ideas.. they have come, or to be opposition as it is now, and it is constructive for society opposition, not screaming and unprincipled. As for your line in her part about the shock I was talking about, an increase in income. In just a few months of this government, there has been such a drastic increase in the minimum wage, which is particularly important on this particular subject, such as reasoning, as logic, because this increase in the minimum wage is intended to dramatically increase in the future. That's why the so-called working organizations are so jumpy, so against it, and all liberal economists are on their feet, in a fight, on a knife with just that. Even they want the drop of the normal minimum wage, they want to leave things in the hands of employers and the free market, which is nowhere to be found As far as these texts are concerned, which you are quoting in the Bill. If you noticed, I stated in my speech that, in fact, such a bill, such a directive also aims to be a doorway for illegal immigrants. This enables some of them to be stimulated, to be helped to join society, to gain legal status, for which you are also absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the plenary part of this sitting on today's day until the end of the vote on item two, which we adopted at the beginning of the day, further included on the agenda and the corresponding extension of the starting time of parliamentary control for today following the vote on item two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u45	A counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov to extend the plenary of today's sitting until the conclusion of point two. Vote 128 MPs: 100 against 13, abstention 15. The extension proposal has been accepted. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Ademov, you have a word to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Simeonov! In my brief speech, I will try to bring the discussion back within the scope of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Indeed, in the proposed bill, there are several texts that are outside the scope of this directive, but unfortunately these texts are the ones that are the problems that colleagues have been talking about just now. I would like to start by saying that the proposed directive actually refers to highly qualified legal migration from third countries. Everything else is outside the scope of this directive. I would like to take the discussion back in time and remind the honourable Members that the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility was adopted in 2016. He introduced in the Bulgarian legislation ten directives, codifying the matter related to labour migration and labour mobility, as a large part of the texts located in other laws, found their place in this united law. Bulgaria shall have an obligation until 23 May 2018 to introduce the requirements of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe and, from this point of view, importers shall submit to the National Assembly the texts of that Directive. The proposed project aims, apart from the introduction of the Directive, to clarify the fact that it is about conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of, first of all, conducting research, second place, studying, internship, volunteering, programmes for student and cultural exchange, educational programmes, sports programmes and so on. It is about the fact that around 3 million people worldwide. 700,000 international students worldwide are trained as international students and only 1 million. 200,000 of them are trained within the European Union, i.e. the share of international students within the European Union is slightly above 5%. In order to meet the requirements of the Europe 2020 Strategy to reach 3% of the gross domestic product for research and development, the European Union needs a total of about one million researchers that the European Union currently does not have. That is why this directive is being introduced. The practice of implementing this directive in the European Union shows that over the last year around 5,000 researchers and students have benefited from this programme. In order to be able to implement the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy in the field of research, I repeat, about 1 million highly qualified specialists and researchers are needed. I would like to draw attention to the MPs that this project is discussed in the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which is an organ of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. On a proposal from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, this project has also been discussed in one of the committees of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and the National Council for Employment Promotion. In a large part of the texts of the Directive, the social partners and all interested parties, including in the course of the public discussion, including in the interdepartmental procedure for discussing the proposed bill, have made remarks which have been adopted by importers and are part of the proposed bill. However, there are several texts that have also been mentioned in previous speeches that create some tension. Perhaps there should be more clarity about what the objectives of the proposed texts are. According to importers, it is about measures proposed on the basis of practice, on a proposal from the Law on the Promotion of Labour Mobility and Labour Migration. First of all, according to the Honourable Members, when a Bulgarian employer employs illegally workers or researchers from third countries, he has the obligation to return an illegally employed worker. This is § 9 of the provision, under art. 13, para. 5. The current law provides that the costs of returning the illegally employed worker are to be borne by the employer. In addition, the current text requires the employer to pay up to three minimum salaries. [[Noise.]] Tension creates the proposal to remove this text. I want to give a very clear explanation that this text goes to the Law on...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u47	One moment, Mr. Ademov. Honourable Members, can you call off the calls in this Chamber? Mr. Gyokov, a request for silence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u48	This text is removed from the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, because its systematic place is in the Law on Foreigners and it has been moved there. You know that this project amends the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on Pre-school and School Education, the Law on Youth and several other Laws, that is, dropping the employer's obligation to illegally employ workers from third countries is currently going to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. He does not drop out of legal peace in Bulgaria. Next, under the contested § 10. Dear colleagues, the current text says that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, after an opinion of the social partners, grants permission: when the employer wishes to receive a permit to work for foreigners more than 10% of the average number of the company in the last year. What does that mean? If an employer proves that there is an objective need for his company to work more foreigners from third countries, I am not talking about countries from the European Union, but from third countries, then the employer is obliged to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for permission. It is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy who bears all the responsibility, following a rather severe administrative procedure, to issue such an authorisation. Why the arguments, the explanation of the fellow importers are in the direction that they propose dropping this text and replacing the imperative text with a wishful thinking. Maybe they want an opinion... In 94 cases, 95% of the companies in Bulgaria are the so-called small and medium-sized enterprises up to 10 employees. There's another worry. We could set up a new firm and hire, say, 300 Pakistanis, 300 Afghans and so on. Fellow Members, this is a profound misunderstanding of the philosophy of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. In order to reach such a request from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to exceed those 10%, firstly, Bulgarian workers and employees must be appointed, and only when there is a proven need to increase those 10%, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy issues such a permit, which sometimes takes months and within these postponed months the need to employ such workers and employees is removed. Employers give concrete examples of the reality in Bulgaria. For example, for the appointment of a chef, who, to say, is in a Chinese restaurant, for the appointment of a tour guide who has to rule Hebrew, must be a tough, complicated procedure and will suddenly prove that the season has passed and there is no need for such types of workers and employees. Therefore, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy takes the responsibility to issue such authorisations and to ask the social partners for an opinion only and only when it comes to large enterprises, for a large number of these 10%. The current text, the practice of its application, shows that it creates more problems than solving problems because for 15 years the text, which is desirable in the regulation of this law, has been acting. In this regulation there is a text that says that: the Minister of Labour and Social Policy at his discretion wants an opinion from the social partners. There are a few more controversial moments. In the conciliation procedure, in the course of the conciliation procedure between the various departments of the Ministry of Education have proposed a change in some of the definitions that are reflected in the current project. There are, of course, concerns from the point of view that the proposed project under the directive offers researchers to enter into employment contracts under Bulgarian law, necessarily to include labour legislation. There are, however, cases in the various programs of the Ministry of Education such as:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These programmes concern researchers from European countries, and this directive is not about European countries, it is about third countries, something that is different. When importing workers and employees, researchers from third countries, then we must oblige them to enter into employment contracts so that the control bodies of the General Labour Inspection and other control bodies can control them and have equality, no dumping in terms of payment and so on. This is the basis for including this text. I am convinced that between first and second readings in the course of the discussion of the Project, if it is accepted at first reading, the individual departments will clear the contested texts, in this I have no doubt. Another controversial moment.. The residence permit for seasonal workers, which is issued once a year. However, when it comes to seasonal workers, for example, for the winter season, the winter season is located within two years, and then, both in one year and the next, you have to ask the Employment Agency for permission, respectively, to go through the procedure for issuing a single residence permit and work, which is agreed with the Employment Agency, with the Migration Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. So I think that there are things that can be corrected between first and second readings and I repeat again, and I stress that this directive applies to highly qualified personnel, to highly qualified legal migration from third countries, and not to other cases that are already regulated in the current law on labour migration and labour mobility. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor for lines, fellow Members. There are no lines. For the next statement there is Mr. Rumen Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I ask that we extend the group's time as well as the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u51	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u52	Dear colleagues, the work of Parliament and the Bulgarian government is to provide favourable conditions for the development of Bulgarian business but also of Bulgarian workers and employees. In other words, we are obliged to find the balance of interests between the two groups, as well as to reach agreement with the official representatives of the employees of the Bulgarian trade unions. That is, in this case, we do not just stand on the side of one or the other, but we join the discussion to find the balance. Secondly, in no way, particularly in this directive, as has been emphasised by our fellow Members, we have no objections, as the directive concerns the admission to the Bulgarian market of highly qualified personnel, and we have no problem here. The problem, as with the Istanbul Convention, is for the honey barrel and the tar spoon. Some try to pass texts, let it be clear that they have nothing to do with the European directive. What are the facts? We cannot accept some of the demands of employers who want to gain greater access to the international labour market at the expense of the Bulgarians. It has been said and there is no doubt that the increase in imports of labour from third countries will lead to what it will lead to. Until the retention and reduction of the salaries of the Bulgarians born in Bulgaria. Dear employers, I was also asking a question earlier on another occasion. Is it true that in the Republic of Bulgaria a member of the European Union, wages are the lowest? It's true! Is it true that in the Republic of Bulgaria, within the European Union, the tax paid by employers is the lowest? It's true! I asked them: honourable Members, since you work for the lowest wages, with the lowest taxes, why you are the most uncompetitive in the European Union and there is silence. Would you please tell us why the countries with the highest competitiveness in the European Union, the Scandinavian ones, to start, are which countries colleagues? With the highest wages in the world, not only in the European Union. So the mantra for lower wages, lower taxes profits that led to higher competitiveness, does not correspond to common sense, to world practice and to European practice. So their arguments are untenable. Furthermore, the issue of raising the bar for imports of workers from third countries. Not only will the salaries be lower, should we ask ourselves the question, colleagues, from the ruling coalition? Will the emigration from Bulgaria increase as a result of the pressure on the salaries in Bulgaria? Let's ask ourselves this simple question is going to increase. Wouldn't that make Bulgaria's terrible demographic problem even more dramatic anyway? We will push the salaries in Bulgaria, chase the Bulgarians to bring in cheap labor?! What do you mean? What national problem do we solve? So I apologize very much, but it is not possible for the interests of a separate company to harm the interests of the national interest for which people here have chosen us to defend, because other countries and nations protect their market differently, in the same common directives. Dear colleagues, there are countries that have restrictions on the salary for foreigners to be at least 100, but 150% of the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we will now only have to compare ourselves with Romania, which has run forward and has higher economic growth. And, most likely, to open a clamp next year, Mrs. Macovei will surely come to monitor our prosecution and judiciary as they leave surveillance. We remain as a special case in the European Union. But what do Romanians do? Go on the Internet and see the people have introduced a quota for foreign workers in Romania, not a percentage, three thousand people per year. The blue card quota, a European high-skilled one, is 800 people. All right, the Bulgarian side has decided for years .. has applied 10%. So far we have no serious problem with some large wave of foreigners working in Bulgaria. Check the statistics: I saw, with a blue card there are 170 people, so let's not change this restriction, and that's why the BSP for Bulgaria I will vote against it not because of the directive. In the second reading, all the texts of the directive will be supported by us, but because of these texts which put the Bulgarian labour market at risk and can lead to severe demographic problems, we cannot vote either at first reading or at second reading these texts. In addition, let the Bulgarian employers be so good, also read on the Internet, read articles and books, in other countries and peoples companies finance students, do interviews of students from first and second year, enter into contracts with these students, I have attended such days of meetings between business and students both at the American University and in Britain and in France. To be so good Bulgarian employers from leading companies to enter into contracts with Bulgarians who study in our higher education institutions, to sign contracts with them after their completion, because our people, which is the last place in development in the European Union, we can finance taxpayers, train our children, and go to produce gross domestic product in other countries! Can't we learn that much from someone else's experience?! Therefore, honourable Members, I invite you to return this convention, these amendments to the law of review. In this case, it does not contradict the Bulgarian interests, but does not address the attempts by the European directive, we Bulgarian MPs, press the button and create additional, serious problems for both Bulgarian workers and the demographic problems in Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines to Mr. Gechev's statement? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am surprised by the heated debate on this bill, which, as I said in my previous speech, was adopted unanimously by all members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting without exception by all parliamentary groups. Many things have been distorted about the bill in the speeches of the pre-speakers. It has gone too far by saying that this bill promotes national interests and that there is a danger to the Bulgarian labour market. This, honourable Members, absolutely does not answer the truth. This bill does not refer to opening a door for third-country nationals, but only deals with the issues of entry and residence of certain citizens, and without permission to work for research, internships, volunteering, educational programmes, student exchange programmes. It's only about a certain category of workers. These are researchers, students, interns, students and volunteers, for no immigrants who were told by Mr. Shopov. In this way we do not interfere with the Bulgarian labour market and do not harm any national interests. There are only two contested paragraphs. This became clear from the statement of colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP................................................................................ only § 10 Regarding what Paragraph 10 says, Dr. Ademov once again said in his speech, but in order to make it clearer with him it is proposed to remove the mandatory nature of discussion with the social partners in cases where a local employer has sent a request for imports of workers from third countries where the number of employees in the company concerned, which represents the employer, exceeds 10% of the average staff of the employees in employment. It is envisaged that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will request such an opinion from the social partners, but without a mandatory nature. There is nothing worrying about this, because the responsibility for allowing access to the labour market for third-country nationals is more than 10%, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy himself. He's the one who's putting her signature on it, who's issuing that permission. As has been said by the predecessors, sometimes an opinion is sought and an opinion is collected for one person, which in some cases is 0.11 percentage points above the specified 10% quota. This is a long procedure, while all social partners the Employment Agency, the General Labour Inspectorate, give an opinion. It often turns out that the need for this person to get a job permit has been dropped because it has been too long a few months. In this sense, this change is also made to § 10, which provides for a change in the relevant art. 14, para. 2 to simplify the procedure for greater operationality and support for enterprises. It is natural that when it comes to a larger number of people, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will ask for an opinion from the social partners, when it comes to not one person or two, but 10 people, but, honourable Members, to ask for an opinion and to drag this procedure out for a few months for only one person, this is completely unfounded. I would like to emphasise that this change does not in any way aim at excluding social partners from this process, because there are sufficient guarantees in the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act for the participation of social partners at all stages. All these issues concerning labour mobility, labour migration, free movement of people are discussed in the National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. That is why this amendment and supplement bill, which we are currently considering and so intensely discussing, I would like to remind you that it has been adopted unanimously in the National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, and has also been adopted two days ago in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Of all the social partners, only KT "Support" has objections to § 10, which we discussed, and § 9. With regard to § 9, in which you have reservations, colleagues from BSP, your concerns are absolutely unfounded because it is not a matter of dropping the employer's financial responsibility for returning illegally staying third-country nationals. Immediately with the withdrawal of § 9 of the Draft Law in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the same bill, you can check it with the provision in art. 45 and the creation of a new para. 4 we move this text over there. That is, the financial responsibility of the employer for the return of employed and illegally staying third-country nationals is transferred to the Foreigners Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 45, para. Four, you can check it out. In view of the explanations made by me and the remarks made by the previous speakers, I believe that there is absolutely no concern, no reason for the bill not to be supported by the first vote by all MPs. And the fact that you have, fellow Members of the BSP, reservations regarding § 10.. because under § 9 you should have no worries at all, it remains in art. 45, the new para. 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, you can now safely vote and accept the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, as you did at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and between first and second reading to submit your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Do you have any lines to the statement? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Angelova! I'd like to make one clarification. The changes proposed, however, do not concern only the so-called "scientific workers" who will enter into contracts with Bulgarian scientific organizations, as it is very clear in the texts that it is at all about workers from third countries and there are special conditions for those who come for scientific work. In principle, it is precisely those coming from third countries who will participate in scientific projects that are most welcome. But I didn't have time to say that there are some questions here, my fellow Members. First, will the Minister of Labour and Social Care determine who scientific organisations are? I'll give you one example, one hypothesis. You know there's a Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. You probably don't know there's a duplicate, and it's called the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Art, right? And what if in some part of Sofia, we say the Faculty, or in another city, in Stolipinovo, make the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Physics and invite prominent scientists from Somalia, from Pakistan in nanotechnologies to say about the love of the ants, and bring these migrants into Bulgaria, what will happen? In these texts there are no clear barriers to who determines what is a scientific organization, because now under Bulgarian law anyone can make a firm. There are such companies, they go around the media with some loud names on the market economy, and in the name of the company writes a scientific institute. What will be the strainer, so to speak? Who will be the authority that will give us security on these matters? These things can be reflected in the legal documents in the implementation of the Law, but I want to tell you that in each of these new moments there are also underwater stones. So we must be particularly careful not to finally allow an understandable, effective European directive to open Pandora's box in Bulgaria, because that is all we lack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u57	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. You, in the role of couffee, can come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Dear Lord Deputy Minister, if you are still here, dear Mrs. Angelova! I will, of course, agree with you that there are little problems with the transposition of the directive and the adoption is unanimous on this part of the changes. You said it was about researchers, interns, students and volunteers. Yes, what is transposed by the directive into legislation is indeed about them. But what about § 9 and § 10? It is not at all about researchers or volunteers or students or interns, but it is about all the labour that is being brought into the country. You said, and there is nothing to worry about is the mandatory nature of coordination with social partners. What's so disturbing about it being mandatory? I think everything would have been fine and really would have been adopted by consensus, and there would have been no debate, and we have been debating the bill for a second hour now and we are spinning around § 10 and around § 9. If you hadn't inserted these paragraphs, of course, you are not to blame for this if the importers hadn't inserted these paragraphs under a surdina, as you have done with all the other drafts, now I am not given an example here with the quite current Istanbul Convention, where, along with the consensual and indisputable things we are trying to bring in some other things that will question those who are voting on them, so I will not agree with you to support the proposals and then to vote against the dropping of § 9 and § 10 because you pass this number many times and never happens what the opposition is proposing to drop or accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u60	And with just one sentence to remind you of the violations at the Medical University that are going on in the media right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u61	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gechev! With regard to legal definitions and concepts of the concepts of volunteer, researcher, researcher, research organizations, this is given in the Draft in the Transitional and Final Provisions, so there will be no concerns, it is definitely what this means. Regarding your two lines of Mr. Gechev and Mr. Gökov, it did not become very clear to me because Mr. Gokov and now in his reply, which he addressed to me, claims that he supports the directive as a whole and Mr. Gechev says that the directive is a submersible stone in relation to the Bulgarian labour market. [[Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So take and clarify your positions, fellow Members of the BSP, and have the same opinion. However, you also have representatives in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. The word for speech is Mr. Peter Petrov. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I think there have been long enough discussions, enough speeches. I would simply like to announce from the National Assembly's stand that the United People support this bill at first reading and that some colleagues have a particular opinion is welcome. I would also like to express an opinion that Mr. Ademov made a very meaningful, very good statement, which we most welcome. With this, I would like to show once again that the United Patriarchs do not consider the DPS to be our enemies, and they are diametrically our opponents, but not our enemies. That is why I want us to keep the good tone, to make a move at first reading of this law, to approve it with a single call: to end further debates, because what has been said so far has been sufficiently clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u65	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there lines? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Boyko Borisov tours Bulgarian communities abroad and explains how it will create conditions for migrants to return to Bulgaria, and with this law you create a new wave of young Bulgarians to seek a normal standard of living on other labour markets, colleagues. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This law reserves the right of employers to freeze salaries and to provide labour from countries with lower standard of living, with lower standard and European standards criteria. I am voting against this law because it violates the right of Bulgarian workers to defend their rights in their homeland. The home economy should develop precisely to increase the welfare of the nation and not in the interest of a narrow circle that makes legislation suitable only for its personal interests. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the proposed bill. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. Vote 150 MPs: 113, against 20, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the adoption of this bill because, behind the official occasion for its implementation, the transposition into the Bulgarian legislation of Directive 2016/801 on the conditions of residence in the European Union of third-country nationals in relation to studies in universities, participation in research programmes, educational projects, internships, school exchanges, volunteering and assistance for raising children, travel to the Law, and other important changes are introduced to the Law, for which colleagues from our parliamentary group have spoken well enough and clearly in the discussion on the Bill. As can be seen from the title of the Eurodirection, it has nothing to do with the import of foreign workers, that is, there is a classic scheme to pass unpopular decisions applied repeatedly by this government and this majority. A law is passed because of harmonisation with European legislation, but the occasion is also used for other lobbying and unpopular solutions, and when the consequences are felt and public discontent is raised, the power is justified by this: There is no way we can support such a bill and I therefore voted against it because this is in violation of the interest of Bulgarian citizens, in violation of the national interest. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second negative vote? I can't see. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES AND THE SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENTATION OF CORRUPTION AND TO TAKE OFF OF INDEPENDENCE OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLEMENT. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics is an importer on 1 February 2018. Mr. Yachev, please introduce us to the Rules of Procedure and the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee held on 31 January 2018 discussed rules of procedure for conducting a public procedure on the basis of art. 93 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. On the basis of Article 9 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the National Assembly shall elect a President of the Commission on a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 9 in connection with Art. 35 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the National Assembly should confirm together with the rules of procedure and declarations: Annex No 1 "Written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property; Annex No 2 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents, and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army; Annex No 3............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The rules of procedure of the meeting took the following MPs: Boris Yachev, Milko Nedyalkov, Kristina Sidorova, Simeon Naydenov and Slavi Netsov. Following the debates, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 7 votes for abstention, 2 votes abstention, and 0 votes against a vote proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 9 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly R-E-S-E: It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I. Proposal of candidates and submission of documents to candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property 1. Proposals for candidates for President of the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property shall be made by Members of the National Assembly. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the National Assembly's case-law to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics within 14 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the candidates. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: the applicant's written consent to be proposed for the position in the template "Annex 1 to the Decision'; In writing the applicant's consent under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents, and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to template "Annex No 2 to the Decision; a detailed professional CV; a copy of documents for higher legal education, as well as a certificate of legal capacity; "Criminality Certificate'; ? documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property; 3. Within 7 days of the publication of the applications, each candidate shall submit to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics: A written concept of his work as President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in paper and electronic media; A declaration of incompatibility according to template "Accordance No 3" to the Decision established by the selection authority. A statement of property and interests on a template established by the Commission (Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property) "Annex No 4. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents referred to in Section I shall be published within two working days of receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly who has raised the application shall be published. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may present to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics opinions on the candidate, including issues to be put to him. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, or by e-mail: anticorruption@parliament.bg no later than seven days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be published within three days of their receipt on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether all necessary documents have been presented and whether the proposed candidates are eligible for the post of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 2. Where the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission finds that the applicant has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform it that it may present them within 5 days of notification. 3. No applicants who have not submitted the documents under Section I or who do not meet the requirements of art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 4. Following the verification, the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics shall, by its decision, draw up a list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property admitted to hearing. The list shall be drawn up in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates admitted for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property 1. The hearing is held at an open meeting of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, which is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee only listens to the candidates admitted on their order on the list. 3. An importer of the proposal shall present the applicant at an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The applicant is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in an exhibition within 15 minutes for each candidate. 5. Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, universities and scientific organisations. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after asking a question to him. The answer time for each question is up to 2 minutes. 7. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall submit to the National Assembly a detailed and reasoned report from the hearing, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions on the election of the President of the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. VI. Election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report on the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order as defined in the list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Thank you, Madam President. This is the draft decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have the floor. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor only to make an editorial proposal with regard to Annex 4 where it is approved by the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property table of the declaration, with a proposal from this part of the first rectangle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u73	Read it, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u74	There is no reading, it is a rectangle in which they are placed: at the top of the abbreviation of the Commission and in the second part of the rectangle, an entry number, year, is filled in for service. As the declaration will be submitted to the National Assembly to the Commission, which will hold the competition, there is no need for this table, which would already be an attribute to the regular, ordinary, usual table according to the model of the new committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the editorial amendment that Mr. Kirilov just made for Annex 4. Do you have a reverse procedure? Appendix? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say that the whole Table 4 is very wrong, Mr. Kirilov. Very messed up! There are three more columns: to be filled in when taking office; to be filled in for the previous year; to be filled in when leaving office. This table is simply copied and it does not correspond at all, and it was one of my main arguments not to support procedural rules. Moreover, this table is a mixture between two tables which previously existed in two separate laws: in the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, which was held by the Court of Auditors, and the declaration which was under the Law on Conflict of Interest. The mix of these two declarations has led to the fact that in the last statement of property and interests, several places say, for example, where to fill out, how many shares do we have of known companies that are inadmissible in such a joint declaration. This mixture also says that there are also what the incomes of the candidate were in the table in the last year before they were declared. This is possible only by the other law when he has already taken office. We really need to get this whole table back and processed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u77	The line, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u78	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member! I call on you if you make a proposal for an amendment in the sense with which you have started your speech, I will support it.................................................................................... to drop the boxes, tabs, the positions where this declaration concerns the types of declarations. Indeed, there is no way, when we unite the regimes into one law, we cannot fail to unite the circumstances that are declared. This is the first declaration under the new law. This declaration, perhaps explainably, perhaps perfectly normal, will be a challenge for the candidates who will compete for the chairmen of this committee. If I say again, make an offer as you have listed the first three positions, I would support them and ask my colleagues to support them, but that is all the adjustments in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Would you do a back-up, Mr. Nedyalkov? Actually, it was Mr. Kirilov's speech? Did you make a line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Kirilov! In the form of a duplicate, I would like to say that the changes to be made in Appendix 4 are huge and they cannot be made to primavista. Moreover, I did not agree with the Commission to record that Annex 4 has already been approved by the Commission, which we are closing with the Law that we adopted in December. Do you understand me? There are many applications, so it is difficult to make them out of the parliamentary tribune and to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u81	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mr. Kirilov for the removal of the table in Annex 4 Vote 131 MPs: 103, against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I am voting on a decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I propose, as Mr. Yachev did not say that there are applications and applications and declarations to this decision I also put to the vote. They voted 140 MPs: 108, against 6, abstention 26. The proposal is accepted, and thus the procedural rules. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 26 January 2018 to 1 February 2018: Asked by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice, on the policy of the Ministry of Justice regarding the management of prisons and the accommodation of those convicted with effective sentences. The plenary sitting should be answered on 9 February 2018. A question has been received from the MP Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on nuclear energy policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 9 February 2018. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 17 questions from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Lambev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva further to answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. We're moving on to today's parliamentary control. Krasimir Karakachanov will be the first to respond to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the MPs Kolyo Yordanov Milev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavcho Velkov and Tasco Ermenkov about the activities of the company "MOBA" at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, in the past 2017, a company called "MOBA" to the Ministry of Defence has implemented 700 pistols on the market. Our question to you is: has the procurement procedure been complied with, do they have the necessary license to trade weapons, to which company the weapon was sold and for what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u84	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Milev, honourable colleagues! Mr. Milev, I'm going to fix you. It's not 700 guns, it's 800 guns, and the ammunition is 60,000 rounds. To your question, which you have asked me with colleagues Tsonkov, Velkov and Ermenkov: according to the information received from the manager of the company and documents, the sale of guns and ammunition was carried out in the following order. I'm reporting. On 13 July 2017, with a report note from the same day to me, the manager of the company, MoBA, Ltd., requested permission to organize and hold a competition for the sale of 800 pistols -- and 60 thousand rounds of ammunition -- 9x18, and 120 binoculars under the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of state rights in commercial companies with state participation in capital for which the company issued a storage permit issued by the District Department -- Elin Pelin, Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior -- Sofia. According to the items presented in the same reference, the subject of the request were brought to the accounting company 302-1. The same does not imply fixed tangible assets as their value is below the materiality threshold. Given this circumstance, the order with them is out of my hands. The competence to sell the stock belongs to the manager of the company, subject to the statutory order laid down in the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. In this regard, on September 28th, the manager of the company has issued an order for the establishment of a committee for the preparation of documentation and conduct of a competition procedure for the sale of movable goods: pistols "Makarov" 800 pcs, cartridges "60 thousand pcs 9x18," lead hearth, and binoculars B8x30 set "120 pcs." There is an order of 28 September to set up a commission to select companies to be invited to participate in the announced procedure. The committees appointed by the above orders have prepared the documentation required by law which has been sent to the participants and have proposed to the manager three companies to be invited to participate in the competition procedure. An assessment of the items has been carried out by the consultant's house, for which a report has been submitted to determine their market value. The companies selected by the committee were sent invitations by e-mail, accompanied by the necessary documentation. In the deadline for submission of the documentation for participation in the announced procedure were received offers from these three companies, namely: "Fortuna After examination and evaluation of the proposals of the participants in the procedure, the competition commission with a protocol of 11 October proposed to the manager of the company to enter into a contract for sale of movable property with the company "ISDI Bulgaria" Ltd., ranked first with the following price offers: pistols "Makarov" unit price 134,10 BGN. excluding VAT, at a nominal price of 132 BGN.; ammo cartridges 9x18 single price 0.24 BGN excluding VAT, at a minimum price of 0,24 BGN; binoculars unit price 31,50 BGN excluding VAT, at a price of 30 BGN. By order of 11 October, the manager is ordered to take the necessary legal and factual actions to conclude a contract with the participant. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm skipping over some of the stuff. On 16 October the contract with the first-ranking participant was concluded. The moving items subject to the above contracts were transmitted on 23 October 2017 by a protocol to the representative of the winning company. The contract is total of 150 525 BGN. with VAT. By letter dated 15 November 2017, the manager of the Ministry of Defence informed the Head of the Police Department of Elin Pelin of the contract for the sale of pistols, ammunition and binoculars. In conclusion, it is clear from the facts presented that the procedure for the sale of arms and ammunition was respected under the legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u86	I'm sorry I changed the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u87	It's okay. It was important, so I let you finish. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, thank you for your clarification of the procedure. I understand that legal requirements have been met. My additional question is: have these ammunition entered the company's in-house contribution to the Ministry of Defence, and is this in the direction of rescuing the company, which was in a difficult financial situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u90	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milev, very correctly, this is exactly the idea for the recovery of the company. I think I was answering a question about the state of the company. At the beginning of the term of office, the company "MOBA" had obligations of 1 million. Ninety-four thousand. lv. To the NRA. To date, debts have been melted to 630 thousand. lv. It's almost halfway there. Our ambition is with the measures we have taken to restore the company by the end of April to melt all liabilities to the NRA, i.e. to be zero to zero. And that $150,000. BGN, which are obtained from the sale of these guns and ammunition, are exactly in the direction of the policy for the recovery of the company and for the clearing of its duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, we are going to the debates on the asking of the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. The questioning of the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev was answered at the meeting on 19 January 2018, Friday. At the same meeting 71 MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria have submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next meeting of the parliamentary control on 26 January 2018. Due to a commitment outside the country of the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev on 26 January 2018, the President of the National Assembly redirected the debates on the questioning of the next parliamentary control meeting on 2 February 2018. The proposal for a debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 19 January 2018, Friday. A second draft for a decision by 9 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 25 January 2018, Thursday, which was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. A third draft decision by 8 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" was introduced on 1 February 2018, Thursday. It was also sent to the MPs in electronic form. The submitted draft decisions will be voted on as follows: First, a draft decision submitted by 71 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. No 854 00-3, dated 19 January 2018, registered at 12.47 p.m. Second, the draft decision submitted by 9 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group, No 854-02-8, from 25 January 2018, registered at 13.21 pm. And thirdly, the draft decision submitted by 8 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" No 854-02-10, as of 1 February 2018, registered at 10,54 a.m. Colleagues, I give the floor to one of the importers to present us with the reasons for today's debate. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! 121 municipal hospitals in the country provide an opportunity for treatment of more than 2 million. Bulgarians. Some of these hospitals are located in hardly accessible and remote regions where, together with emergency centres, they are the only source of health care and services. Their patients often fall into the group of uninsured patients and socially weak people. And although there is a demand for the services offered by municipal hospitals, many of them are in extremely difficult financial condition and their existence is threatened. How did it come to this? Perhaps the main reason is the problem with clinical pathways and their valuation. The prices of the trails have not been updated since 2006. Without regard to inflation, the threefold increase of the minimum wage, the prices of the consumables are unreally low and do not account for everything that has changed in Bulgaria over the past 12 years. What is the role of the government in what happened? You have managed almost without interruption since 2009 and since then none of the seven ministers who have changed to the post of Minister of Health has paid attention to this pressing problem. Now, to secure the situation, you're still throwing money at the problem without asking for a clear strategy to solve it. An additional 400 million has been set aside. lv. in the 2018 Cashier's budget, designed to revalue some of the paths, but which paths? By what method will prices be calculated? Will the process be transparent? That's practically not clear to anyone. The other important reason for the state of municipal hospitals is the constant increase in medical standards. Since these hospitals cannot meet the increased requirements of the standard, it is possible to cut clinical pathways on which the municipal hospitals had previously worked. The paths that remain are the cheapest and, although enough patients pass through hospitals, the cheap clinical pathways do not provide enough revenue and this leads to long-term commitment. Here I would like to share with you a problem that I have noticed in my long-standing practice in a municipal hospital: for example, in a surgical ward, gallstone disease can be operated, but conservatively can't treat gallstone disease. The biliary crisis cannot be cured. The pneumonia: the patient must be over 85 years old to be treated in a municipal hospital, otherwise he must go to the district hospital to be treated. I can give a lot of examples like that. That needs to be changed. There's something else that we don't talk about much, but it actually has a big impact, and it's the feeling of insecurity of medical staff in municipal hospitals. Before any accreditation of the hospital, with the introduction of every new medical standard, the municipal hospitals begin to talk about restructuring, understand closure and this causes many doctors and nurses to seek employment in larger district or state hospitals where the risk of closure is less. The paradox here is that it is not enough that there is a serious shortage of medical personnel in Bulgaria, but still some of the employees in the system are afraid for their work. As a result, two weeks ago, there was a protest involving dozens of municipal hospitals. This protest did not impress the government and did not achieve its goals. An additional subsidy for the indebted municipal hospitals was not granted, but at the same time the Ministry of Health made a number of empty promises. In short, the Ministry washed its hands with the argument that municipalities are the owners of municipal hospitals, and it can only offer technical and expert assistance for restructuring and so much. However, we, from BSP, believe that this is more than insufficient and the state has other levers and opportunities to help deal with this pressing problem. First of all, the agenda of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund should be to reevaluate the value of clinical pathways as a step towards resolving the issue. This process should be transparent, with the participation of all stakeholders, and account should be taken of the factors affecting the prices of clinical pathways. In addition, new clinical healing pathways can be created and beds for healing in municipal hospitals can be opened where possible because they can serve as an additional source of income. Secondly, the Ministry of Health must urgently undertake the preparation of the National Health Card. How to make reforms if there is no big picture, the vision of what health care looks like? The last attempt of the GERB government to make a health card ended with its annulment by the court. Now it's up to you to correct that mistake again. The health card should reflect the demographic structure of the population, plan and anticipate the real needs of hospitals on the ground. It will also show which municipal hospitals can be restructuring in emergency centres or in diagnostic consulting centres. Last but not least, the requirements for municipal hospitals, in medical standards, must be reconsidered in order to be able to expand their activities and work on more clinical pathways. Against the backdrop of the total debt of hospitals amounting to 500 million. BGN, the debt of the municipal hospitals alone is close to 100 million. BGN, with outstanding debt being 43 million. lv. and, although a fifth of all patients who received hospital care pass in a year, this does not make them the bad child of healthcare, on the contrary, they are a major part of it and, apart from their medical activities, they also play a social role. Therefore, Mr. Minister, state from this tribune that you will pay the requested subsidy from municipal hospitals of 30 million. lv. At the dawn of democracy in Bulgaria, health reform began with a reform of emergency aid, followed by the hospital, with general practitioners. The hospital relief reform took a long time. Then one of the fathers of his reform was asked what would be the reform of hospital care in Bulgaria and he replied that it would be done on the move. And that's what happened. The result is total chaos in healthcare and in 10 years, 20 municipal hospitals closed their doors. Perhaps it is also time to consider having a public discussion whether the system, as it is now, has not exhausted the municipal hospitals to be commercial companies, and whether a completely different model of financing of hospitals should be walked towards? In this order of thinking the decision on the future of municipal hospitals is only part of the big question about the future of all hospitals in the country. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the basis of all this, our parliamentary group proposes that you adopt the following decision: firstly, entrusts the National Health Insurance Fund to implement Decision No 4 of 17 January 2017 of the Supervisory Board for the payment of the excess activity carried out and applied by municipal hospitals for 2016. Secondly, within 3 months from the date of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly: 1. A model for financing the activities of municipal hospitals in accordance with the demographic characteristics and needs of hospital care of their regions. 2. Strategy for the personnel provision of municipal hospitals and motivation of medical specialists working in them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. The second draft decision. Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Honourable colleagues who caused this parliamentary question, I am pleased that in your speech is now the topic of the big picture of the Bulgarian healthcare concept model, because this is precisely the deficit of the questions that you have caused so far. Health needs a complete reformation and I agree with you because the consideration of the problems, in the case of only municipal hospitals, in no way solve the problems of the system. What I think is the most dramatic problem in the years in which the health insurance system is reformed is the rupture of the links between different types of medical care, namely: primary, outpatient, specialized, hospital, emergency. All this prevents the patient from feeling secure and knowing clearly his way and the movement in the healthcare system. This, as a strategy, must be reviewed, but the big picture is indeed a priority, and in achieving the health indicators of the nation are described in the National Health Strategy. The discussion and debate is important to happen, but in this case we only fix the problems on the state of municipal hospitals in your questioning. And that is why we have proposed a draft decision that is in line with the current regulation because it has not changed. Although many times here in this Chamber, we are debating various problems of the healthcare system, unfortunately, we hear from the opposition and various messages. On the one hand, you claim that we have poured a lot of money, on the other hand, you want additional money, and you do not offer a conceptual alternative. Therefore, if you really want to be an opposition that is responsible, I ask you, if you have in your programme designated clear legislative initiatives to change the current healthcare system, to present them to a discussion and this will be useful for us and the government. Because within the discussion we will once again exchange thoughts, but the results, unfortunately, can only remain within the framework of the current regulation. In this regard, we have proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Within one month, the Minister of Health shall submit to the Committee on Health to the National Assembly a methodology for financing municipal medical facilities for hospital care. 2. Within three months, the Minister of Health shall present to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly a concept of stabilisation, rescue and development of municipal hospitals for hospital care. I would like to inform the MPs who are not members of the Committee on Health that at the Commission meeting last Thursday, we held a hearing with the National Association of Municipal Hospitals. Municipal hospitals were also invited, which are not members of this association. There the colleagues presented their concept of changing the product offered in the health system and another way to value and offer medical care. This has been extremely useful, I regret that not all the colleagues of the Commission have listened to it with interest, because we really need to go in this direction to look for another conceptual model. In this sense, experts and field workers should be heard. What concerns me about your draft decision is the many factual and regulatory inaccuracies. On the one hand, you have proposed to adopt Decision No. 4 of the Supervisory Board of the Casa, even it is inaccurately quoted, in fact the exact decision is No. NS-04-11 of 17 January 2017. If you had carefully read the subsequent decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Casa... [[a line from MP Dragomir Stoynev]] You'd understand that this was a done decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u95	This is an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u96	In this sense, this is no longer an option, because... [[Replications by National Representative Dragomir Stoinev]] . Please calm down, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u97	Wait, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u98	I won't take the attention of the MPs later. Within the 10 minutes of presentation, I will inform the MPs why it is more appropriate to accept our proposal. In this sense, I would like to say that your decision is incorrect because this proposal has already been adopted by the Supervisory Board, but there is another, subsequent decision of the Supervisory Board of 27 January 2017, which has not been adopted. From another point of view, I would like to remind you that we have adopted a decision of the National Assembly. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u99	Okay, we're changing the status of the statement. It will be a statement and will not be an opinion on an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u100	I just want not to take away the National Assembly's time and move on. I would like to remind the honourable President and the honourable exciting fellow Members of the Left that we have listened to very thorough speeches that have nothing to do with the specific subject matter. Health allows such an eclectic set of thoughts so that all problems can be affected and transferred to the government. Therefore, please excuse me, but I really do not want to take away any further attention and the time of the people's representation. In this sense, I continue to understand your proposal. I would like to stress that the model for financing the activities of municipal hospitals, as described in your Draft Decision, is clear this year, because the regulation is the same for municipal hospitals, both for state hospitals, for private hospitals and for university hospitals. I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that, in connection with another debate, we have adopted a decision of the National Assembly, which implies certain deadlines by the 31st, was this period, during which the Ministry of Health must present to the National Assembly a concept of health insurance and development of medical professionals in the healthcare system, and to present to the National Assembly the introduction of uniform standards for the management of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care, the preparation of statutory mechanisms for control of their implementation. In connection with the change of the teams managing the Ministry of Health, in the Committee on Health, we have received a letter wishing to postpone three months until this information is received, i.e. by the end of March we will have the implementation of this decision of the National Assembly. The precision in the decisions and work of the legislative authority requires that we do not repeat our decisions already adopted. In this sense, I believe that it is precisely the proposal for the draft decision that we have made that is entirely legally cleared. The topics affected by you, namely the negotiations on the prices of clinical pathways, the negotiations on medical standards and their validation, are not within the powers of the Members of the National Assembly. They are in the power of the word organization, in the powers of the National Health Insurance Fund, medical specialists and in the Ministry of Health. The separation of authorities is constitutionally defined and must be respected. In this sense, we can monitor the processes, but the so-established legislative framework gives us the right to be only controlling on the path of parliamentary control, but we cannot interfere with activities that have been fully replaced by other organisations. It is important to hear these messages, because we also appeal for the precision of medical standards, for the revalue of clinical pathways that have remained in time for one reason or another with slightly lower values and this hinders their performance. It is good to remember, to check and read the clinical pathways, that the healing path exists, and I repeat this to you several times from the parliamentary tribune. The big problem is in its low value and therefore the medical institutions do not want to carry it out. But when we talk about the problems of municipal healthcare, it is important that we have a comprehensive picture of the presentation of medical care, because municipal hospitals are the center of hospital treatment in certain municipalities, but I must stress that it is very important that patients there also have care, which is complexly represented. I would like to appeal to municipal hospitals to extend patient care and access to them, because very few are municipal hospitals where emergency offices are organised, where patients of general practitioners in the region can receive urgent assistance in the hours when these doctors are not working. There are very few hospitals that have the opportunity to provide complex care, and in this direction we have the challenge of implementing, together with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, an old solution for the development of the so-called health-social care, which can be replaced by municipal hospitals and give them additional funding opportunities. These are the challenges for development and on these topics I think it is appropriate to concentrate the discussion, because this will benefit the care of patients in the various regions of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u101	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Just to be clear, 3 minutes 22 seconds is the statement from the time of GERB. Correct it, because as soon as you signaled, I switched to speech. So not nine, but three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u102	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! In the couloirs of parliament is the Secretary General of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Stoyan Borisov. He is an official who has the mandate to participate in today's discussion. That's why I'm proposing that we let him in the room and give him the floor of the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u103	Back proposal, Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u104	Dear Madam President, Dr. Stoyan Borisov was at the meeting of the Committee on Health, at which we were hearing about the state of municipal hospitals. The Committee on Health heard the opinion of Dr. Borisov and the Bulgarian Medical Union. In the Chamber, I think it is unacceptable to give the opportunity to speak the Secretary General of the Bulgarian Medical Association - we are not honored to have the President of the word organization present here, who is legitimately elected by the Bulgarian Medical Union, representative of all doctors in Bulgaria. In this sense, I find the procedure unacceptable because Dr. Borisov can listen to all the debates and then express his attitude in the Committee on Health, where the Bulgarian Medical Union has access to the established order and is always given the floor when necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u105	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The procedure is really unacceptable, Dr. Yordanov, because there is an opportunity to hear the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union in the Committee on Health. He has the opportunity to monitor the debate from the balcony. Welcome to the third proposal, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Allow me to present: Project! DECISION in relation to the questions referred to in Article 754-05-57, submitted by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on 23 November 2017 to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED By 31 March 2018, the Minister of Health shall draw up and present to the Committee on Health a conceptual model for specialization and continuing training of staff in healthcare, including in the municipal healthcare system. I would like to remind the honourable Members that on 8 June 2017 a decision of the National Assembly was adopted at four points concerning a strategy for the development of hospital care facilities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 of this decision is said to be submitted by 31 December 2017 to the Health Minister to the Health Concept for the provision, notice and development of health professionals in the healthcare system. I'm paying attention to this item. 4 because a moment ago I heard a hint from Dr Daritkova that the meaning of the proposal contained in our Project for a solution is somewhat covered by this point. 4. I argue that this is not the case because the fourth point of the Decision of 8 June 2017 refers to the provision and development of medical professionals in the healthcare system as a whole. Moreover, we understood that for the reasons Dr Daritkova pointed out, this concept was not introduced to the National Assembly. However, Dr. Daritkova, for the first time I hear that the Ministry of Health has the right to change a decision of the National Assembly. You know, by our rules, that's not gonna happen, right? But it's not the most important question anyway. That's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u107	On the opinion, Dr. Ademov, because I'm going to transfer to you as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u108	This is related to our Decision Project I'm pleading with the Project. It is no coincidence that in our Project for a Decision we are talking about how the specialization required by the Minister of Health should be carried out to present to the Committee on Health the concept of postgraduate qualification of doctors in Bulgaria. We require a concept of continuing training because part of the 2020 strategy is lifelong learning. It is no accident that we dwell on the element of qualification, because we believe that human resources management in the healthcare system is an extremely important and responsible process. Why am I saying this? Why, in our decision, have we affected precisely the Strategy for Human Resources Development? Because what's happening right now? In order for the National Health Insurance Fund to have revenues, municipal hospitals must conclude as many contracts as possible through clinical pathways. However, in order to conclude contracts, they must have according to standards a sufficient number of specialists. In order for specialists to have them, however, the specialization system in Bulgaria needs to be removed, because Ordinance No 1 is currently not functioning in the way the Bulgarian young specialists expect. Next, if you find staff in municipal hospitals, as a rule they are highly paid, there is free movement of diplomas in some of the medical institutions. We therefore propose, first of all, that the cornerstone of this discussion be the discussion on human resources. Next, I would like to point out that the model of healthcare, including municipal healthcare, has been deformed over the years. What was originally designed did not find any continuation in the coming years. These 6%, which were stated at the beginning, Minister Ananiev knows very well, were only for outpatient help. Then 2% were added, and a billion and 400 million were accumulated, unfortunately, you know the fate of this reserve. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. From the hospital aid budget, which last year was a billion and 500 million, was updated by several more hundreds of millions, only 265 million, that is, one sixth of all hospital care funds, goes to municipal health care, plus 30 million from the Ministry of Health. See what is obtained with one sixth of the money for hospital care of the National Health Insurance Fund is served one third of the Bulgarian citizens who are health insurance. With one sixth of the money, one third of the population. This is a great disproportion and is due to structural problems of the model. That is why we propose a decisive and profound change. The most frequently commented, including in the discussion in the Committee on Health, problems are Next, a revision of the prices of clinical pathways. What they have to do, let's say, is contract partners from the word organizations and the National Health Insurance Fund. Well, there is no way to revise the prices of clinical pathways in favor of clinical pathways on which municipal hospitals work, because this money must be taken from other clinical pathways. That'll cause another concussion. Optimization of standards. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] This is connected, Dr. Daritkova, to our project. Next, the restructuring of municipal hospitals. I am finishing up so as not to irritate the esteemed head of the Health Commission, with the fact that in art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act it is said that the medical care referred to in art. 45, agreed with the National Framework Treaty and the Contract with the Contractors, includes medical activities [[a line from the MP Daniela Daritkova]] , i.e. the National Health Insurance Fund pays only medical activity. And who pays the business expenses? We have always argued that colleagues from BSP, listen to this: just because the business part of the costs is commercial, the medical institutions are registered under the Commercial Law. Because the Health Insurance Act doesn't say that medical care also contains supplies, oil and so on, not to list all the other things. Therefore, we also propose that the owners through the state budget, by transferring to the budgets of municipalities to bear the economic costs, and that the National Health Insurance Fund pay only the medical activity. This can happen, of course, within the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u109	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Colleagues, I will tell you which parliamentary group has how many minutes: GERB with 15 minutes, You know that the Minister's speeches do not come to this hour, which is for the debates. He can take the floor at any time. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, come in for a statement. Here you go, Dr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u110	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr. Borisov, I apologize. I can't help but take account of the paradoxical situation Dr. Daritkova presented. The managers do not have a concept for development of something, in this case.. Municipal health, and ask the opposition:.. Why do you not propose?......................................................................................... Wait, isn't that why people gave you the right to rule? You have to offer the concepts because you're smarter. Mr. Minister, our analysis of the state of municipal hospitals differs from the state of district and university hospitals, although Dr. Daritkova is trying to say that the problems are the same. Why? Because municipal hospitals work in demographically weakened areas, that is, they do not have enough patients to secure the appropriate medical care to be paid in most cases by the Health Insurance Fund. An example is the famous hospital in Nova Zagora. The hospital in Nova Zagora over the years has treated between 3500 and 3,700 patients. In medical terms, this makes about 3500 paths per year. They give them a monthly income of about 240,000. lv. The Fund is about 270 thousand to have a hospital. BGN, i.e. she can't just make her fund out of work. The municipal council in Nova Zagora pours 100.. 150 thousand. BGN, who told me the respected colleague of Nova Zagora, however, they are not enough. At one point: "Stop pouring money" and decided to include it in the privatization program of the municipality yesterday it is already included. In this regard, we have two questions for you, Minister. The first: municipal hospitals should, in our view, be financed as public hospitals, which also do not have enough government patients. That is, for 24 hours on duty and ready to receive patients, they must receive support through the Ministry of Health; and for the medical activity they have performed for every patient who has entered the hospital, respectively contract with the Health Insurance Fund. Our great concern is without insulting municipal councils from those municipalities that have hospitals, I believe that they do not have enough competence to define the concept of privatization of their hospitals. I do not want the hospitals to be privatized, the hospital in Nova Zagora, and in its place to have a sewing workshop, i.e. I want privatization, we are not against it, but it should be with rules that ensure sufficient quantity, volume and accessibility of medical assistance to the population of Nova Zagora and other municipalities around it. Because 36 km to Sliven, 36 km to Stara Zagora or so, 30 km to Radnevo, people have nowhere to use medical care. If the Ministry of Health with its instrument "The National Health Card," which we hope will come out soon, says that in Nova Zagora there should be a hospital, it should do everything possible there to have a hospital and define this hospital to what medical criteria......................... such as accessibility, volume, quantity should respond, which, Mr. Minister, in my opinion in the Law on Hospitals in its first kind had a chapter... I think it's time, I mean, the first swallow, Nova Zagora, went off. There'll probably be others. The Ministry of Health should state what criteria the future privatizer of each hospital in the country needs to provide precisely the medical assistance needed for patients in the hospital area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u111	Thank you, Doctor Yordanov. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. A statement? Dr. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u112	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Municipal hospitals have been in debt, quiet agony for years now. From time to time under force majeure, this usually takes place around the adoption of the budget and after its adoption, they go to the public, before the management of the Ministry of Health and state what their problems and demands are. However, the funds saved by municipal hospitals will not save public health, public health institutions. By the way, this division is so conditional that it is counterproductive because, here it has been said, the system is too fragmented and the division of municipal healthcare, of public health, of private health will not solve any problem. Patients are not at all interested in what is the property of the medical establishment in which they are treated, whether it is a municipal hospital or a state is an absolute formal division. That is why we do not accept the thesis that the Ministry of Health has no commitments to municipal hospitals. On the contrary, if we look at the system in full, the commitments are very clearly scheduled and they are in the legislation. However, the question is, how, with rational arguments, with rational instruments, including financial instruments, to find a socially acceptable solution, to find a socially acceptable result? Because in fact, municipal hospitals consume only 15% of the total resources allocated to hospitals and at the same time offer health care to two million of the population of Bulgaria. What exactly is solidarity in our solidarity system today, when imbalances are deepening and I will tell you why the year 2010 of a citizen of Veliki Preslav or Novi Pazar The casata paid for hospital treatment BGN 22, at BGN 200. of a person treated in the hospital in Sofia. Now these imbalances seem even deeper and are 35 BGN. in Novi Pazar, in Preslav, against 350 in the capital, i.e. the Cassata gives more money to hospitals, but they do not go again to those small remote settlements and to these municipal hospitals. There's no corruption in these hospitals. There are no illegal payments in these particular hospitals, unlike many others who offer higher piloting in medicine. But these hospitals don't have the ambition to do anything like neurosurgery, cardioinvasive procedures. They want to offer basic, basic aid, because demographic problems are extremely serious precisely in those municipalities that they serve. That is why I wish this conversation would be more serious and lead to consolidation and not to division and opposition again. Much of these hospitals have been reorganized, Mr. Minister. That is why your call, you and your team to restructure, did not come to an understanding and I will tell you why. Most of these municipal hospitals have long since closed down their AG wards because of demographic problems there and population composition. They haven't had surgical wards for a long time because of human resources. But the state must say that it supports their efforts to have at least an internal ward, a nervous ward and pediatric if there is a need. You are offering them restructuring, but we have to say exactly how long-term care activities will be financed, such as hospice coverage or palliative care. They are not only the commitment of five or six hospitals who do not want to do this work anyway. I therefore believe that today we must unite around the fact that there are rational solutions that need to be supported and which are proposed by municipal hospitals. For example, a review of medical standards to stop lying. At the moment, there is one deception between all the medical facilities and the Casa. To increase the price of these clinical pathways and this is realistic because negotiations are currently under way on the National Framework Treaty, mainly on which these hospitals are working. They have not been changed since 2005, and the minimum wage has changed five times and it is currently BGN 510. Appropriate funding of the healing pathways, which I have already said.. Long-term treatment and hospice. Limiting did not result in the desired result, i.e. the wrong funding model generates a deficit and it is not only for municipal hospitals. We are talking today about municipal hospitals, but the situation is tragic in the districts, and it is not only Vratsa, Vidin and Lovech. Who will talk about the huge debts of state, university hospitals? In the system, five hospitals consume 70% of the resources for hospitals. Again, our question to you is asked in this form. Do you think that any rational financial proposals can achieve a socially acceptable result because this is what they expect? There is no mayor or municipal council that wants closure of the hospital, and the people there will protect their medical facilities because they and now 90% prefer to be treated there and do not have the opportunity to travel to the major centers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u113	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Do we have any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go. I didn't see, I'm sorry, Mrs. Zaharieva, then it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u114	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Yes, it is really necessary to re-evaluate the clinical pathways and a new methodology for their formation, because, as fellow Timchev said, since 2006, they have not been touched, and inflation has almost eaten these funds. There is also a need to pay off the overlymit funds because, anyway, they are made by hospitals and this obliges them to the Constitution. The restructuring of some municipal hospitals in Bulgaria is also necessary. It is also commendable that the Ministry of Health offers methodical and analytical support to municipal hospitals. But that, colleagues, is not enough for me. For me, it is very important that hospitals with public property, whether it is municipal or state-owned, are equal because citizens have equal access to healthcare and whether they live in the district city where the state hospital is assisted by the Ministry of Health or live in the smaller municipality where the municipal hospital is located, they must have equal access to health care, the same conditions and they have the desire that the state and the Ministry of Health take care of their hospital as they care for the state hospital. If I may say so myself, in many municipalities, the municipality is not a mother to the municipal hospital, but a stepmother. I will allow myself to say that in many municipalities there are cases when the municipal council, as the principal of the municipal hospital, takes away the small profit of the medical establishment and redistributes it to other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u115	Thank you, Dr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u116	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, there is no way I cannot fail to address this issue, since the main speeches regarding today's debate and debate on today's topic are linked to the hospital in Nova Zagora. I will allow myself to start with a bit of a background in 2007, when in the municipality of Nova Zagora after another local elections BSP lost power, [[Heckling]] In 2007, yes, we entered the municipality and with a portfolio of deputy mayors who were responsible for both education and health care had to face a very serious problem at our municipal hospital. A problem that was realized with the active participation of the local authorities then. Yes, municipal hospitals are a problem of local authorities mainly, this is how local authorities decide on municipal healthcare. And so it is now, by all the legislation in force. The management of the local government had decided and had transferred and given a famous medical elite in Sliven a large part of our hospital............................... to the municipal hospital....St. Petka.. and quite profitable for the medical expert in question. Another month of December 2007 at a meeting with the municipal leadership then the entire team of doctors, which was much bigger, unfortunately, than the one that is now, because we had surgery then and many wards that worked very actively. The entire medical team asked us to clear this situation and return all wards and the entire municipal hospital St. Petka of Bulgaria to work for the benefit of the municipality and for the benefit of the citizens of the municipality and not for the benefit of certain private interests. Perhaps it cost us a year, honourable colleagues on the left, dear Dr. Yordanov, to restore this correct decision at this time in 2008 in response to the demands of both the citizens and the doctors in this hospital. And we did it! We have succeeded, despite all the difficulties and problems that were at the time in the field of health. As a result of all of our activities of the municipality and of the management of the municipality, the hospital started working again in its version as an entirely municipal hospital. Over the years, however, all of you specialists, because I am not a specialist in this field, very often you suggest and say what the different problems are. Our hospital does not run away and there is no way to save itself from these problems that exist in municipal healthcare. However, one of the most serious problems that has affected the development of the hospital in our country is the location of our city. Yes, you just said that we are 30 km away from Sliven, 30 km away from Stara Zagora, on the Trakia Highway, it takes 15 minutes to reach Yambol, where the Private Cardiology Hospital is located, in an hour it arrives at Burgas, in an hour it arrives at Plovdiv. You yourselves know how many hospitals there are in these cities. A large number of our citizens with good reason seek and prefer better medical insurance in large cities in large municipal and private hospitals. This provokes some of the doctors working at the hospital - St. Petka - Petka - Petka - Petka - Petka - Petka - Nova Zagora - to find work elsewhere, which gives them greater development and more opportunity to develop as specialists. Both our surgeons and AG specialists and doctors from various specialties prefer to go to a larger hospital where there is more active activity with which they develop their own career. And I can't blame any of them for leaving the hospital. [[Noise and lines.]] The accumulation of a number of facts and a number of social phenomena, if we are to call them, has led to the fact that the hospital has had real financial difficulties in the past few years. What did the city do? In 2009, the municipality of Nova Zagora uncovered, built and opened a brand new Infectious Department, which was paid with its own funds and is close to a million, million and 200,000 by memory. Each year in the budget of the municipality is allocated funds as an average amount I say about 100 thousand. BGN, sometimes 80, other times 100 is 150 depending on what we support the business of our hospital. The decision, which was discussed only a few days ago, at a session of the City Council in Nova Zagora, was also set in the Privatization Program to place the hospital. You know very well, honourable Members, especially those who have worked in administration, that privatisation programmes are voted January of the budget session. You can't decide to do that in the middle of the year. The fact that the hospital is involved, first of all, is not necessarily a condition for it to happen. We are looking for, the municipal leadership is looking for an alternative to maintaining health care at local level and to preserve the possibility of New Zagoras having health care. I want to say here, from this tribune, that we will not allow any speculation that we are shutting down hospitals and hospital in Nova Zagora there will be no. On the contrary, privatization does not mean the closure of the hospital, but means an alternative to maintaining health care in our city in another form. Dr. Jaffer himself just said that for citizens and patients it is not important property, it is important to have a supply of health and medical services. I would very much like to say that, including the vote and entry into the Privatization Program of our hospital, the Municipal Council at its meeting on Wednesday has decided again to assist at this stage with 80 thousand at our hospital. I mean, we're going to follow up on all the options that he has in front of the development of health care. We strongly support all in the municipality of Nova Zagora and a very large part of the Municipal Council, excluding the representatives of BSP, this mobilization and this decision of the Ministry of Health. And here I would especially like to address the Minister: yes, we very much want to see and have this strategy for stabilizing, healing and developing hospitals. It goes through all our efforts and we need to find that common path between local authorities, as officers of municipal healthcare, and the central executive, in order to enable, in the best possible amount, to give the best quality of health in small areas. [[Heckling]] Finally, I will allow myself a political sentence, because healthcare for me is not a topic with which we should play politics, and we should not scare people. I am extremely disappointed by the reaction of BSP colleagues to the Sliven organization. Why? Because, honourable Members, if the Municipal Organization of BSP Nova Zagora is a vassal of the regional organization of BSP, then the municipality of Nova Zagora is not such. The municipality of Nova Zagora has the right to solve its local problems, there is a local municipal council that takes decisions about these problems and only in the municipality of Nova Zagora with the general effort of citizens, doctors, local leadership will be able to reach the correct decisions for our city and for our fellow citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u117	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u118	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I had no intention, apart from my own speech, of taking a cue to some of the colleagues discussing in the Chamber. If you'll excuse me, your appearances are beginning to look like a story from Decameron. Where there is some topic for discussion, and here the topic for discussion is not the New Zagora municipal hospital, I apologize for saying it. [[GERB noise and lines]] , always all arrows head either to the BSP regional organisation or to BSP and to colleagues on the left. Putting the problems that we have allowed ourselves to ask in the presence of the honourable minister do not concern one municipal hospital, not to comment that the opening of an Infectious Department in Nova Zagora is without any professional sense. I don't know what the reasons were for this to happen, but this is talking about quite serious disbalances in thinking, knowing what is the rate of infectious diseases in Bulgaria, the number of clinical pathways that are taking place in this direction - the disclosure of an Infectious Department in such a small town, whatever the specific, current causes, is not supported from a professional point of view. On one occasion, I took the liberty of allowing another colleague, when a person is not a specialist in one area, to be keen on local patriotism and to prove how correct the decisions were at one time or another in the history of a municipality, he will not help the debate at the moment. I think that everyone who has spoken so far to you, unfortunately, I allow myself to repeat it, looking for an opportunity for a national discussion, not in a regional and not in a regional way, you are saying that you do not want a politicisation of the debate, but you end up with a political address again to the left of the House. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u119	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Second line, please, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u120	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, as many times as you come out of this stands, you are always causing problems. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Your whole statement contradicted itself. Since 2007, you have taken control of Nova Zagora and since then the hospital has been in such a state. The other day at the rally I attended, you weren't there. We fought and we will not allow this hospital to be shut down. And whether it is privatized or not is another matter. But it turns out that, as from education, I can tell you don't understand enough because Sliven has a similar case with schools... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u121	No personal attacks, Mr. Milev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u122	...so you are also talking about healthcare, which I believe your speech is not competent. Please, when you speak specifically about the Sliven region, do not measure with the Nova Zagora archa. Thank you. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u123	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Is there gonna be a third line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u124	Thank you very much for the lines. I don't know if one should be happy, surprised, or proud to be able to make an imbalance and tension. After all, I would absolutely agree with you that the debate should be national here. I was provoked to make him one to guess what the problem was in our local area. Perhaps you will certainly give me examples of other cities - they will actually give the whole picture of the development of municipal healthcare. Here some of my colleagues tell me to ask for an example of you to present good practices in the field of municipal healthcare with the hospital "St. Mina" (St. Mina) Plovdiv; other people tell me that it is very important for this development how local authorities will treat their health care. And if you, dear Doctor, didn't remember your name... [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: Professor Mihaylov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u125	Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u126	Professor Mikhailov, I'm sorry for my ignorance. With all due respect to all doctors, I started with this that I am not a specialist and I will not allow myself to comment medically, but there is a good message that the World Health Organization is giving and I know that you know it very well: think globally, act locally! So I can take care of the local interest. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u128	For those of you who don't know, I've ruled St. Mina for three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u129	I didn't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u130	Well, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u131	Hasn't she gone bankrupt?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u132	She didn't go bankrupt. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you now. When I became a director to know in Plovdiv BSP did not rule, there it rules GERB. When I became Director of St. Mina, I was approached by GERB activists and I was told that you should re-registered the hospital as a medical center because it was prepared to become a medical center. I didn't agree and I kept it. However, the entire resource of Plovdiv municipality went to the other municipal hospital. I'm proud that we saved the hospital and there's a hospital there because, like everywhere, there were private interests to become a bank and so on. I'm proud that St. Mina's hospital is currently receiving patients, and that's not my minus, it's a plus. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u133	Thank you, Dr. Yordanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u134	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Municipal hospitals are really in a very serious financial situation, which reflects that we have two very badly mistaken ratios in the financing of health care in the Republic of Bulgaria. The first thing that depends on us, because the second depends more on the Doctor's Union and NHIF, this is that when voting on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund hospital assistance under the NHIF Budget Act, which we voted two months ago, is less than 50% of the total budget of the Casa. One billion and 800 million at three billion and 800 million total budget, that is, less than 50% of the total budget. This includes hospital care in municipal, state health and mixed-owned hospitals, such as district hospitals. The other serious wrong ratio is in the prices of clinical pathways, which does not depend directly on us, but depends on the framework contract between the Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund. There we have prices of the paths I give a very clear example to colleagues who do not work in this field after all. The caesarean section in Bulgaria is paid as a normal birth with a price of BGN 580. There is not a single hospital in Bulgaria where as cost the caesarean section cost to this hospital less than 1000 leva, and 580 leva are paid, I say again, as a normal birth. There is no hospital in Bulgaria where the price per bed is less than 180 BGN. In the obstetrics wards. And there is a price for an operation in Bulgaria paid by NHIF 500 leva. You can imagine this really complicated operation being done in super specialized hospitals, but it still costs 26 Caesarean sections at once?! There's no such ratio in the normal world! So we, what depends on us and tried to do, have already commented with the prime minister and I am glad that this new minister is a financier, and we will be able, possibly in this term, to change some of these abnormal price ratios. And we took the first step in the new budget of the Casa, from a 407 million increase in 2018, we gave 367 million to hospital care, which is about 90 percent of the increase. We gave them where the problems are the most serious. Municipal hospitals suffer precisely from these two confused ratios because they work on low-funded pathways and from this they cannot support themselves from the clinical pathways and reach for municipal budgets where municipalities and municipal councils are not obliged to finance them as an activity, but they do it out of humanity and because they do not want to close the hospital. Therefore, Dr. Daritkova's proposal is very reasonable to give the Minister a real term of one month, a relatively short real term, the Ministry to provide us with a new methodology for financing these municipal hospitals and up to three months of restructuring them where there is a need. If you remember, the minister said the National Health Card would be ready by March 31st. This national health card must be ready to perform a second point of what Dr Daritkova offers, that is, we need to know the needs of each of these 28 areas of hospitalization, of beds, of hospital care opportunities, so that we can then, on a ready national health card, go looking for options to save municipal health, so we cannot put the cart in front of the horse. Therefore, my request is to vote today on this proposal, which is really reasonable and which gives short term and exerts pressure on the administration of the Ministry, but we have no other option. We know how difficult the situation is in municipal hospitals. Therefore, I wish the new minister success in an uneasy activity that he is about to have in the next, literally two or three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u135	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people! I definitely believe that today's debate on municipal hospitals is important and necessary, unfortunately, very, very late. Why is it important? It is important because municipal hospitals have their place in the hospital treatment of Bulgarian citizens. Furthermore, municipal hospitals, in order to debate today about them, show that they have a problem and problems structurally, problems management, problems personnel, problems financial, and in many cases these problems are complex. That is why in the last month I held two meetings with one meeting with part of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the other meeting was with the Association of Municipal Hospitals itself. At this meeting, we reached a consensus on many issues, although after that it came up with information almost that our meeting was about the 30 million. lv. We have agreed within the framework of our legislation, what is currently in force, each of the countries, what it can achieve. I, as Minister of Health, made a commitment to conduct a full analysis of the budget of the Ministry of Health and all possible appropriate savings to be aimed at increasing the amount of 28.5 million according to the methodology for financing municipal hospitals. The second topic that we have addressed is to use all possible mechanisms that allow the negotiation process for the national framework contract and to make it possible to solve some of the problems that are related to municipal hospitals, including a review of some of the prices, mainly prevention, children's, mother's health care and some others, of course. A moment ago, the issue of the national health card was raised. We are convinced that by the end of the negotiation process, the entire package of regulations will be ready, which are necessary to sign and implement the National Framework Treaty in practice. This is the national health card, this is the main package of activities that the National Health Insurance Fund pays for, these are the algorithms of the clinical pathways and these are the medical standards. We want to begin the implementation of the new framework contract with a complete set of regulations. In addition, we have made a commitment as an office that conducts health policy to provide methodological support to all municipal managements in order to be able to do everything that is necessary to optimise and restructure the work of municipal hospitals. I don't tell everyone. There are very well-functioning municipal hospitals, but where necessary. Unfortunately, at the end of last year, the unpaid costs of municipal hospitals do amount to 98 million. BGN, including 43 million. BGN, which are overdue to creditors and debtors, but if we try to do a time analysis of the accumulation of these debts, you will see that the last year lv. This process is very long and it is about ten years in which hospitals have become worse and worse financially. I ask: in these ten years, why have not the necessary measures been taken at an earlier stage to be able to stop this process so that there are not now 10 or 20 hospitals ready for bankruptcy? And that's why we want to help, so we can restructure them, not shut them down. The debate we are having today, I think, is limited. If we wanted to be successful in this debate, we had to talk about the problems of the entire hospital care community, government with 50 and over 50% participation, university and private hospitals. It is the only way we can make the right analyses and conclusions, take the right measures in the field of hospital healthcare. Not only hospital healthcare, we had to cover all kinds of medical activities in order to see the condition and relationship between the individual participants in the health process. You know that I have been here for many years when we look at the budget of the state and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The same participation and the same debates were held in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Usually we've always been accused of pouring money into unreformed systems. In this sense, I would like to tell you that our healthcare, despite the fact that every year we have given 300 and more millions of leva, our patient, our Bulgarian citizen is not satisfied with the quality of his treatment. I mean, our health care is sick. It needs treatment, only for so many years no one wrote the prescription for this treatment. Today, I commit to you that within a few months I will develop a new model for registration, functioning, management and financing of medical care. This model must change and replace the existing model at the moment. [[Applause from GERB.]] Once I am ready, I will make a serious discussion with all the institutions that are interested. These are the experts in the government, the committees in the National Assembly, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Social Commission, the Legal Commission, with all the agreed organizations I will also have talks with all associations and associations of hospital and outpatient assistance. Then when we have this debate, then when people believe me about this model that I am proposing, we will draw up relevant legislative changes. God willing, they will be ready by the autumn session of parliament so that they can be adopted and that we can prepare the system to work on the new mechanism from 1 January 2019. If we do not have enough time, we will do our best to make sure that it enters from April 1st when the new framework contract for 2019. The model that has existed since 1999, believe me, it has been completely exhausted. With any side measures, with any palliative measures it cannot be restored. So today I took this promise to you. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. Do you have a statement? Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I am very impressed and pleasantly surprised by the revelation with which you presented your vision, which completely coincides with the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. You've been a minister for three months and you're trying to catch, as the elderly say, the bull for the horns, which is very difficult. But I will ask all my colleagues to remember the shorthand of May the first debate was dedicated to the state of all Bulgarian healthcare. And then the Bulgarian Socialist Party also raised the idea of creating a non-partisan, new model, which you have now so convinced and professionally spoken about, of managing and financing healthcare. I personally feel satisfied that after 10 months of serious debates, in which there were also many political sparks and many personal attacks, which is explained to the work of such an institution as parliament, we all come to the idea of creating a new model to optimize and restore the faith of Bulgarian citizens in health care. I believe that you will receive from our parliamentary group and from all our experts assistance in its creation, discussion and introduction of the territory of the country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u139	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Replies to Professor Mihailov's statement? I can't see. Professor Klisarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u140	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor briefly because we have all talked about a new funding model for the whole system, with which we think equally and agree, just one little addition..... let us not forget the personnel in healthcare as well. Our second point for the staffing, not only of municipal hospitals, well, let's talk globally about all hospitals, about the specializations and the continuing qualification, is extremely important, so we very much want this point to come into the decisions of today's debate. I have the assurance that Ordinance No 1 of 2015 will be changed so that access to young people's specializations can be real, easy and motivate them to stay in the small health institutions. I'll tell you that out of all 121 municipal hospitals, only ten of them are a specialization base and in certain specialties. I welcome the idea from 2016 that it enabled some modules to enter the districts or other hospitals, but let us see Regulation No 18 on the accreditation of hospitals and Regulation No 1 of 2015 and to change the current state, current model and way of specialising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u141	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u142	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! In the short time that I have left, I want to tell you that with the draft decisions, regardless of which political group they are from, we have determined what the Ministry of Health should do, but we are missing three other subjects in this process. One is the National Health Insurance Fund. I ask the question: is it possible to change the way contract partners finance within the framework of the NHIF budget? My answer is yes, and we will prove that this is possible. This is how we come to the second subject. This is us, the National Assembly. We must make this negotiation process as much easier with legislative initiatives as possible at the beginning of this year. And the third subject is the community hospitals themselves. For the time being, they are still commercial companies and, as such, they need to find such forms of internal restructuring, of associations between them to ensure their preservation and modern development in the interests of the patients in the region concerned, and hence, the General Administration, common competitions for the supply of medicines, consumables, fuels and others, differentiation and synchronization of medical services in order to ensure better access, quality and human treatment to patients. And last but not least, synchronization with the work of territorially represented hospital assistance. We will thus achieve an extension of patients' lives and the preservation of the health of the Bulgarian citizen. We have the Swiss experience. They make groups of hospitals there. I give an example of Tong, Frutigen, Interlaken. Tong is the center, and everything else is in a common group, with a common administration. That's where they hire you, you go where you need to go, and I'll tell you that their expenses are down too much. I'd be happy if you in the future model suggested guidance in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u143	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. First, we will vote on the draft decision submitted by 71 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. They voted 142 MPs: 47, against 51, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the second draft decision tabled by 9 MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB, No 854-02-8, from 25 January 2018. They voted 143 MPs: 105 against 37, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the third draft decision tabled by 8 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 143 MPs: 46 against 25, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're moving on to Minister Ananiev. It is by Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the financial situation of the Hospital "Shoumen" AD.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u144	Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u145	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today's issue can be seen as a small extension of the discussion, which lasted for more than an hour, and to express not only my concern, but also the concern of the citizens of Shumen and doctors about the state of the Shumen district hospital. [[Noise.]] Dear Minister, I hope you are aware, but I can still tell you that from your predecessor I have several written answers in which, Mr Minister, after an audit, it becomes clear that a number of remarks and violations have been established during the management of the current management of the Shumen hospital... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u146	Dear Members, please concentrate your attention on what the speaker is talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u147	...and the hospital's financial situation as of 26 July 2017 is not at all a pink debt raised, increased unpaid costs and things on the contrary, are not improving. At the same time, we have shumen and I will provide it to you here, Mr. Minister. Minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, Municipal Property and Control of the Transactions in Municipal Property at the Municipal Council. Shumen, in which the Director of the Hospital says that this audit of the Ministry of Health does not concern him, has not been acquainted and does not care about the recommendations made in him. Moreover, he stated in his interviews that he would continue his policy. Just to remind you that this gentleman has already bankrupted a hospital in Novi Pazar City. We will now hear your response to the hospital's financial situation. For 2017, it is already at 2 million 400,000 losses. So I ask you to answer me: what is the financial situation of the "Shoumen Hospital" AD as of 31 December 2017, what is your assessment of the management of the medical establishment and what measures will you take to improve its management? I will first provide you with this protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister Ananiev, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u149	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Multi-Profil Hospital for Active Treatment" is a medical facility which, according to a medical authorisation issued on 6 April 2016 by the Minister of Health, operates in hospital care besides the address of registration in the city of Shumen, and at the address of the former municipal hospital for active treatment Dr. Dobri Berov. According to preliminary data submitted by the medical establishment, the total amount of revenue of the company for 2017 is 17 million. 342 thousand. BGN, of which 14 million 613 thousand. lv. are revenue from contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund, 776 thousand. lv. revenue from medical and central supply contracts for medicines and consumables by the Ministry of Health. The increase in the revenue of the medical establishment compared to the previous year was 61 thousand. BGN, but it is mainly due to the incomparability of the data for the two periods, as the activity in Novi Pazar in 2016 was carried out only during nine months. The company's costs as of 31 December 2017 amounted to 19 million. 402,000. lv. And they're increasing by 568 thousand. BGN or around 3% compared to 2016. The increase in costs in both absolute and percentage terms is significantly greater than the increase in revenues. This is due to an increase in all types of costs, with the exception of depreciation costs, with the most significant increase in staff costs. In 2017, they amounted to BGN 12 061,000. and scored an increase of 337 thousand. lv. compared to 2016. The increase is primarily at the expense of the increase in the minimum wage for the country and the subsequent increase in the basic salaries of the company staff. For 2017, the share of remuneration and social security costs for staff accounts for 62,16 per cent of the total costs of the company. As of 31 December 2017, according to preliminary data, the medical institution reported a current loss of BGN 2, 060 000. On 31 December 2017, the supplier's obligations amounted to 2 million. 516 thousand. BGN, at 912 thousand. lv. at the end of the previous year. The Commission therefore concludes that there is no need for State aid to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of Eight hundred and eighty-eight thousand. BGN, at 279 thousand. lv. for the same period last year. Full information on the financial situation of the company for 2017 could be obtained after the submission of the final certified by an independent registered auditor, Annual Financial Statement for the period considered. Health is one of the priority sectors of the government for which resources are allocated through the state budget to meet the objectives and tasks of optimizing the structures and rules for the management of public health institutions within the scope of hospital medical care. In this regard, actions have been taken to draw up uniform standards for the management of state and municipal hospital care facilities and control mechanisms for their implementation. The establishment of such mechanisms will enable hospital managers to exercise real management competences and, accordingly, responsibilities in the financial management of companies to be aimed at the effective use of available financial resources. I can at the end mention, Mr. Ivanov, that the Ministry of Health has a plan for optimization and restructuring of the hospital Shumen, with all the subsequent measures that will come from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u150	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Here's a line, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u151	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Other than saying that I'm shocked by the data I've exported, there's nothing else I can say. You're talking about an almost decapitalized company. This company, according to your predecessors' data, had 150 thousand. lv. outstanding liabilities. We're talking $1 million here. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. That's tragic. I expected you to tell me something optimistic, but unfortunately this is a complete failure! Mr. Minister, I ask you very much on behalf of the noisy public, from the doctors, to take clear measures, and they will by no means match the program that I will give to the manager of the medical establishment in which he says that he will close down more wards, will fire more doctors in order to optimize. I'm sorry, but there won't be anyone to treat. Just a week ago, children who cannot be operated on in Shumen, since there is no longer a child surgeon, are looking for medical facilities in other cities. Emergency, Minister! You see, this is a county hospital. We've closed down the hospital in Novi Pazar, they're closed down, there's something scary going on. I'll give you this paper to find out what plans are being prepared. I hope your plans don't match this plan that the hospital director has proposed to the noisy public, and not just to you. I don't know if it's clear to you. I will also provide you with these previous answers that I have received from ministers, where you can see the geometric progression in which the hospital's duties are growing. I ask you to listen to some tranquilizer actions that you will take in this direction, including the removal of this incompetent management of the noisy hospital. From then on, there are at stake the lives and health of thousands of patients who expect to receive adequate and quality health care in the noisy district hospital. This can't go on any longer, Minister! I am already asking a third minister this question and I hope that in your face we will find the person who will find the solution to these problems. Thank you. [[Sends the Minister a newspaper and documents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A hole? I won't. We move on to the next question by the MPs Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova, Ilian Angelov Timchev, Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva, Valentin Georgiev Lambev and Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov regarding the provision of maternity assistance in the country. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question is next in the series where we answer the questions of residents of certain municipalities in the country for lack of access to a certain type of medical care. You know that last time we asked you and you answered about the lack of help in Veliko Tarnovo. One question, one part of the question is about access to maternity care in Svishtov. Since 2012, the AG division in which births take place in the town of Svishtov has been closed for financial reasons probably. The population serving the hospital in Svishtov with this type of activity is about 40,000. souls by our calculations. That means there are enough women who need this kind of help. In the same way is the issue of closing the maternity ward in Teteven, where due to a personnel problem. Perhaps colleagues think of a case.. There are not enough AG specialists in Teteven to work there and close the ward. Unfortunately, the two wards in Svishtov and Teteven are a significant distance from the other maternity wards offering such assistance. Svishtov refers to 83 km to Tarnovo, Teteven for over 60 km to Lovech, near Pleven, and there the region is mountain. My question to you, since both maternity wards are closed permanently, we have a certain need for this kind of assistance there, is: what does the Ministry of Health do to provide access to maternity care for the population of these two regions.. Teteven and Svishtov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u154	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Since the procedure we are in is asking, you have a five-minute answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Yordanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The provision of medical care to the public should be considered in a complex way with regard to the overall medical network.. Emergency medical care, primary and specialized outpatient medical care and hospital care. The needs analyses in each medical specialty, including obstetrics and gynecology, are based on the requirement to ensure equal access to quality activities by individual levels of competence. Equal access to maternity care is not limited to providing a bed in a hospital where there are no specialists and the necessary equipment. At the end of 2012 the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology with the first level of competence and activity in neonatology at the University Hospital is closed. At the end of 2015 the obstetrics and gynecology department with the first level of competence and activity in neonatology at the hospital "Angel Peshev" "Teteven," due to non-compliance with the requirements of medical standards for quality of hospital care. Since then, no relevant activities have been carried out in medical institutions. Under the regulation on the implementation of the right of access to medical care, women and health-insured and uninsured, in need of maternity care may choose medical institutions with exposed obstetrics structures throughout the country. Emergency status is assumed after a received call to 112 of emergency medical care teams. It is apparent from the 2017 reference that from the municipalities of Svishtov, Tsenovo, Borovo, Belene, Teteven and Yablanitsa there have been calls for birthing women as follows: the emergency services branch of Svishtov has carried out calls for 38 pregnant women, transported for genealogy in the medical establishments in the town of Byala 27 women, in Veliko Tarnovo 6, and in the town of Pleven 5. The emergency medical care branch, Teteven, has carried out calls for 13 pregnant women transported to the hospital in Lukovit. The emergency medical care branch, Yablanitsa, has carried out calls for 48 pregnant women, of which 38 are for parental authorisation and 10 with a threatening abortion, transported to the hospital in the city of Lukovit. The calls for the municipalities of Tsenovo and Borovo are carried out by the teams of the Emergency Medical Center. In 2017 11 calls were received from the emergency medical services branch in Byala and from the emergency medical services branch in Two mounds. 2. All pregnant women are transported to the hospital of the town of Byala. Pregnant women from the municipality of Belene are served by the emergency medical care branch of Belene. In 2017, 7 pregnant women were transported to the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. In all 2017, in respect of these cases of the transport of pregnant women through the system of emergency care centres from the cited areas, there are no such cases as may endanger the life and health of the mother. The Ministry of Health has not received any complaints and signals related to the medical care of pregnant women from these settlements. This gives us reason to believe that the so structured emergency medical care system is able to provide timely medical assistance to women from Svishtov, Tsenovo, Borovo, Belene, Teteven and Jablanica municipalities. The Ministry of Health expresses readiness to assist and support any initiative of local self-government that improves access to medical care of the population in those municipalities, including attracting specialists in the respective municipal hospital care facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for up to two supplementary questions, as provided for by the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, these experts at the Ministry of Health don't know what they're doing or what they're responding to. Today you have convinced us that the Bulgarian population, in particular these two municipalities do not rely on medical care, but provide it for themselves. You said that there were only 38 cases in Svishtov Municipality where the emergency services transported them. But more children were born. What did the others do? Yeah, they just secured their transportation, picked their place where they have family and can exist. Now I'd like to ask you a question: do you know how much has the Sectio increased in neighbouring hospitals? Because the lack of normal access in time to the parental ward leads to this.. to a planned birth, which means that the woman goes, chooses her doctor and two weeks before the date of the term is done seccio. Yes, the lack of normal access to these wards forced us to raise Dr. Popovski to heights is gone. Please tell the experts to think normally. If you can convince me that there were only 38 births in Svishtov Municipality in 2016, which was handled by emergency medical care... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u158	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u159	Of course, every woman, every mother-in-law, has a choice of where to go to give birth. For normal cases, if she's determined to go to another hospital, we can't stop her. This is the principle of health insurance in our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u160	She's going somewhere else because she has nowhere else to go to Svishtov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u161	When I went to take over the Presidency of Health Ministers in the Council of Europe, I spoke with many of my fellow health ministers, including experts dealing with statistics in the health system. There was also a conversation about births. Do you know when a hospital or a ward is opened, or a clinic in larger Western countries, to make it effective to treat with the latest technique, with the best staff? For Europe, the average is 1000 births per year. We, because we are a smaller country, a more special country, in order to open such a hospital, must have at least 800 births per year. So let's keep that in mind in the context of these numerals that I told you about -- 39, 40, or let's say normal births could be 140, 150 or 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, you have two minutes to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u163	The hospital in Svilengrad is 80 km from Haskovo, 200 births per year. Let's close the ward!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u164	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. We move on to the next question to Minister Ananiev, he is from the MP Kolyo Yordanov Milev and Georgiev Mihaylov regarding the closure of the Dermatonerology Center in Sliven. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, according to statistics Sliven district is located second in the frequency of venereal diseases in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria after Sofia. For unexplained reasons, with the decision of the municipal council of the city. Sliven Center of Dermatonerology is closed with the intention of opening a department with similar focus in the district hospital. Nowhere on the territory of the country has such closures been carried out so far of specific in their activities and scope of patients hospitals. In our view of closure, lobbying interests are seen with a view to controlling the building and the adjacent terrain. Our question to you, bearing in mind that this is also related to national security, because in Sliven, we have a lot of mixed population areas, there is also a female prison, and a base for migrants in the village of Banya, Nova Zagora, is: what is the decision of the Ministry of Health to ensure this so specific and socially significant medical activity in the territory of Sliven district, and what measures will you take to prevent the closure of this centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u166	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov and Mr. Milev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! By Decision No 928 of 14 December 2017 of the Municipal Council of Sliven, it was decided to terminate the Center for Skin-Venture Diseases by liquidation. The term of liquidation is set for 8 months. It is also agreed that the designated liquidator of the company will rent out all the assets necessary for the opening of a department for skin and venereal diseases at the Hospital of the Bulgarian National Hospital. Sliven. The management of Hospital Sliven has agreed to reveal such a structure in the hospital, but only in case it is provided with a building fund, furniture and equipment, as the medical establishment does not have adequate premises and equipment to meet medical standards of skin and venereal diseases. Rental of fixed tangible assets that have provided the activities of the Centre for Skin-Venereal Diseases (CSC) Sliven, on the part of the liquidator, is a temporary decision for 8 months, as is the deadline for winding up the liquidation, and the payment of the rental price is a significant expense for the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. In this sense, in order to ensure the public interest of the population of the city. Sliven and the district need the municipal council in Sliven to offer another form of providing assets to ensure their use for a longer period and without significant financial costs for the Multiprofile Hospital. It should be noted that after the cessation of the activities of the municipal hospital in the city. Kotel, University Hospital. Sliven was tasked with providing hospital medical care to the population of the municipality by revealing an internal disease department in the territory of the town. A boiler. To your question, what is the decision of the Ministry of Health to provide this so specific and socially significant medical activity in the territory of Sliven district, I answer you that in order to protect the interests and comprehensive medical services of the population in Sliven region, after submitting an application and documents under the Law on Medical Institutions for the Disclosure of Skin and Venereal Diseases Department in the Hospital.................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u168	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have the floor for a line. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This question has two aspects. One is purely regional and you as a person who is already deep in the problems of Bulgarian healthcare must have made a very serious impression that in order to find the region at second place in terms of frequency of venereal diseases, and its demographic contingent is unparalleled with the capital city, this means that the problem is really not only medical but also social. This decision of the municipal council could lead to further difficulties in the operation of the municipal hospital, which you very well described how difficult it is to reveal such a kind of activity. In this sense, and with my fellow Member, we are looking for through you an intervention for, on the one hand, not to burden the municipal hospital with an activity that would put it in an even more difficult position and it does not have the necessary resources to do so and, on the other hand, to reflect the interest of the population in this area. But there is another side to the matter, and I allow myself to share it with you. I have to tell you that ten years ago, I think, on the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, all skin clinics that deal with the treatment of skin and venereal diseases have been closed down. Modern dermatonology capabilities allow 99.9% of patients to be treated in outpatient conditions. In this sense, the problem also has national significance, as we are witnessing both in the capital city and in the territory of other major cities for the senseless existence and this decision of the municipal council, which would be fulfilled, will lead these problems to exist in bed rooms that will practically remain unoccupied, as all diagnostic and all therapeutic activities could be carried out, I allow myself to repeat it again, in outpatient conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u171	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u172	You're giving up. With this, the questions to Minister Ananiev are exhausted. We are moving on to questions addressed to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. The first question to him is from the MP Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov about the future development of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I appeal to you in your capacity as Head of the Ministry of Interior, to which is the Specialized Higher School in the Republic of Bulgaria named the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, which is for preparation of civil servants for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. Today the Academy is the successor of the best traditions of specialized education in the field of security and public order protection. The accreditation of the Specialized School, which was given on 3 October 2013 for a period of 6 years and is estimated at 9.02 out of 10 possible ones. This accreditation of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency is valid until 3 October 2019. The capacity of the higher school is 2000 people in a regular and completed form of training for the needs of the Ministry of Interior and the security services. Accredited are also specialties of regulated professions, namely: National Security (National Security), Administration and Management (IAI), Architecture, Construction and Geodesy (ICS), to which the accreditation assessment coincides with the assessment given to the higher education institution. Doctor's programs are also accredited. I present this data as proof that in recent years the Ministry of Interior Academy has developed as a full state university of national importance in the field of protection of the national security and protection of the public order of the Republic of Bulgaria, which prepares highly specialized personnel for the needs of the country and not just for the office you run. As a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, I understand that at the beginning of November 2017, preparation for changes in the curriculum has started, which, in my opinion, will lead to the Academy losing its accreditation. This is also about unjustified proposals for cutting or dropping established and taught for more than 30 years of educational disciplines. In this regard is my question to you: What are your views as Minister of Interior for the Development of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and why is this rethinking and radical change in the curriculum in it? Are these changes consistent with you? Do you believe that all other reforms in the Ministry of Interior have successfully completed, which is why it is necessary to reform the school process at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u174	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go. The procedure is asking, so you can answer in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoyanov! In accordance with art. 97, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior The Academy of the Ministry of Interior is a university for professional training of specialists and for research mainly for the needs of the Ministry. One of the main priorities in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 " 2021" is to provide vocational education and training by creating reliable mechanisms for feedback between the results of the practice and also by improving existing curricula and plans. In this regard, it is also my order from November 2017 at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior to hold and hold a round table on the topic of the study plans of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior with the sole aim of taking action to improve the quality of training at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, improve the relationship with the practical problems of knowledge and skills of the structures and discuss the challenges to training at the Academy and the Ministry of Interior system. As a result of the discussion, the problems were formulated and mechanisms for solving them were proposed. There is no offer and no provision is made for what you claim to be dropping out of school programs. The representatives of the main and district directorates of the Ministry have expressed their satisfaction with the training at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and have proposed introducing new disciplines, new ones to improve the preparation of training on more effective countermeasures, but also areas such as the field of terrorism, organised and conventional crime in the last two improvements. The current training plans for the relevant specialities at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior are in line with the European requirements in the field of training and police officers, and the staff on fire safety and protection of the population both in terms of relevant disciplines and the ratio of theory to practice in favour of practical studies has also been improved. The Academy's high assessments of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, which you mentioned, are due to compliance of the academic documentation with the objectives, principles, guidelines and standards of quality in the European Higher Education Area. Since May 2015, there has been one that we comply with, and national legislation, in this case, the Higher Education Act. By my order a working group of representatives of the political cabinet of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, representatives of leading directorates, was established to prepare changes in the regulatory base with a view to increasing the capacity of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. In addition, I have to say that increasing the Academy's capacity is part of the Government Management Programme in the period 2017 - 2021, with which I started: Priority 17, Objective 51 - 52, measure 203. The realization of the goal of modern education, training and renewed material base. I will tell you some of these goals that are involved in the realization of this goal. Double capacity increase of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior from 1000 to 2000. We're almost there. Ensure a uniform form of training of new police officers, building a practical training polygon at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior on the ground, on the territory where the Academy is located, in relation to police and fire and protection of the population. I think we're gonna find this polygon next week. At least that's how they reported to me. Full update of the Center for Initial Professional Training. Full update! At the Center of the Ministry of Interior Academy in Pazardzhik and the concentration of the entire training of the new police officers, as well as focusing on the state of the centers in Kazanlak and in Varna. They are for border control training and training of foreign citizens for police activities when possible and there is such a need. Next, carrying out ongoing training of employees who counter organised crime related to so-called "Channel House" and human trafficking, in relation to the increased migratory pressure, I have been referring for several years to counter corruption and money laundering. Finally, I would like to point out that the training, as it has been so far, is about 2,000 investigative police officers, our goal in this programme is to increase the capacity, to train more than 6,000, we have set our limit of six. Including here is the place to thank the D.A. They expressed their willingness to assist in the training, including with lecturers and presence for the training of such important officers and investigative officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u176	Thank you, Minister Radev. Here are two supplementary questions, dear Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u177	Just one question. Mr. Minister, is it envisaged to remove or reduce compulsory legal disciplines, under the pretext of training in other higher education institutions, reducing Master's degree programmes, removing part-time training and cutting in general the training programme, increasing the training hours at the expense of these reductions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u178	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoyanov! I've been trying to give you the most accurate answer for a short time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u180	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u181	Yeah, in three minutes. We are all aware of the important role and place of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. I stressed, and you in your speech before the question stressed the importance of the Academy. At the same time, however, I cannot agree with your thesis that the Academy should not make changes, established, or as you have said, taught more than 30 years of courses. In fact, it is not true that when changing the curricula at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, accreditation will be lost. No, I didn't. According to the criteria for programme accreditation, accreditation of curricula and programs in consumer requirements will increase the final assessment of accreditation. On the agenda before the Academy is the task not just to train, but to train what the structures need. We made this round table for a reason. In the end, these were her objectives, so those who are in the field and those who are in the District Directorates of the Ministry of Interior were present at this round table. An anonymous survey was also conducted with all participants, which showed that the goal of the round table was achieved. The proposals were summarised by the Directorate-General for Resources and sent for an opinion to the participating bodies, with a wider view from the employees themselves. There are no unfounded proposals, no proposals, to repeat and stress it, for dropping out of established courses. On the contrary, there are proposals for revealing new disciplines and for changing the content, focus and ratio of some of the existing ones. The legal disciplines, I just wrote down, and you added this question. I'll answer you in the time I have. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior and the Academy of the Ministry of Defence are specific higher education institutions. It is best for them to train what they are best at. In other places, in other higher education institutions in the country, there are other colleagues, our fellow professors, professors, lecturers who can train much better, including our employees, if we train them at our Academy of Courses where other educational institutions are better. That's the short answer. We don't have a solution to what we're going to subtract, what we're going to add. That's for the community to decide. It is not for a reason that we do not reach for changes in the Academy of the Ministry of Interior in the structure, in the composition, in the disciplines, including in these three centers, which I listed, for the reason that there "in science, in education, is touched with velvet gloves. Personally, as I grew up in these circles, I know that very well and they will not be in the last place, and we will not start with them restructuring the Ministry as there will be one. Let me just say that March month we will get maybe the first draft of what will happen with the structural-functioning model, and then by the end of the summer we will have the final one. Then the decisions will be made for the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. So stay calm! Most of your questions may be justified, but my answer is this: there will be nothing to disturb others in the direction of making the Academy worse. On the contrary, we are all engaged and trying to do the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u182	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, you have the opportunity to express your attitude to Minister Radev's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You understand that I am addicted as a former employee of the Ministry of Interior and as a person who graduated from the Academy in a previous period. The answer at this stage satisfies me to the extent that no decision has been made. You should bear in mind, and this I am asking you that the following several factors must be taken into account when making a decision. First, a scientist is created at least for 15 years. For a scientist at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior in special disciplines this period is significantly greater because he must go through the system of the Ministry of Interior itself, conditionally speaking, through the system of production to get acquainted with the specifics of the work in the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, this gives the opportunity for internal growth of the footage in the Ministry of Interior, they have a horizon for development. Training in other educational institutions is not a guarantee that this footage will grow in the hierarchy. Thirdly, which may be the most important, right now we are in an extremely complex, let's say, operational, complex criminogenic environment in which crime is constantly intellectualized and therefore we need extremely highly trained personnel who are, let's say the word "inspired," to fight crime. Wrong light-handed solutions can lead to a drop of footage and then it will take decades to reach the current level. I believe that we are a small country to deprive ourselves of our most valuable footage, including the Ministry of Interior system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. We approach the next question asked by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov regarding wanted persons with an effective sentence. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u185	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This question, although the reason for its setting remained somewhere in the New Year's holidays, is still relevant to date. Mr. Minister, I was provoked to ask you the question because, you remember, on the eve of the New Year in Novi Iskar, there was a cruel murder that cost the lives of seven people, including the perpetrator himself. I guess the pretrial proceedings in this case aren't over, either. From your statements, the Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities it has become clear that the person who, in your opinion, committed this serious crime has been freed for many years, provided that he had to be brought to serve a sentence of imprisonment. I conduct correspondence with you and with the Minister of Justice regarding how many persons at the date of 15 January 2018. With an effective sentence in force, the Ministry of Interior is looking for it. The Justice Department has given me some answer that we'll see if it corresponds to what you're about to say. It is very important not only for me, but also for the Bulgarian society, at the moment how many people are circulating in the country or abroad instead of serving their sentences. The worst part is that no one to date can answer me how many of those people who should be in prison have severe sentences, are convicted of serious crimes that are capable of committing such atrocities, because that also bothers Bulgarian citizens. The public needs to know what kind of people are circling us. I hope that in your reply you will give us such information and at least please reassure us that adequate measures have already been taken to recover them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! It's become very delicate here. You're holding a folder of numbers, and I'm holding a list of numbers. Now we're going to compare them and hopefully mine match the ones you're holding. [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]] Okay, you'll hear the numbers. There are literally two of them, no more, but thank you for focusing on these wanted persons. I have to admit, when I went and sat down at the desk at the beginning, when I was given a newsletter every morning, I was impressed with the number of wanted persons. I was immediately interested: these are so many of these four digits, which are, what are inside, describe to me. How can a small Bulgaria search for so many people and not find them? Are they out of the country, inside the country?! We did that gradually. This case only escalates and focuses attention as you do. Here are the numbers now, right now, which I have on my desk. As of 15 January 2018, the Ministry of Interior declared a general search for 1126 persons in the category with an effective sentence of imprisonment. This is your specific question and I specifically answer you. Those with a valid sentence are 1126 and we're looking for them. You're probably gonna ask me if it's a big number or a small number. I'm also asking myself, and I've ordered a comparison. What can they tell me if it's big, or if it's small, except to compare it to something, or old times, say, or what happens in other countries? I am interested: in Romania, more than seven million, as we are, per percentage of the population of 100 thousand, are they looking for as much as we are? In Serbia, in Austria, in Germany, are such countries? I'm waiting for them to give me this analysis and tell me, are there a lot here, or are there few, are we not doing well, or are we somewhere in the middle?! In 2017, 563 individuals were wanted in the category with an effective sentence of imprisonment, i.e. half of those in one year are wanted, but others appear to be coming out. That's how I explain it, and we're still looking. I hope that's a good number. I expect the analysis, and then, if you ask me, or in a private conversation, I'm ready to give you further information right away. The worry of both yours and mine, and I suppose of society, is as they say, and I will confirm to you that we are focusing on it constantly and trying to make sure that there are no such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u188	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u189	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! To put it mildly, I'm shocked. One hundred and twenty-six people with an effective sentence walk free, no matter where in the country or abroad. These are people who committed a crime! I'll draw a conclusion here, but this means a serious inaction to me and not fulfilling the duties for years, Mr. Minister. I don't know if this thing has turned into a relapse in the ministry's work because I'm noticing a transfer of responsibilities the Minister of Justice is transferring to you, to the D.A.'s office. When is this thing gonna stop because it's gonna become total irresponsibility? What are we waiting for, the next beastly murder to happen, robbery, rape?! Maybe these things happen, but they don't get to us. I will quote data from the Ministry of Justice, which came an hour ago: only last year did not appear in the places for the execution of punishment and imprisonment 634 persons. From January 1st to January 15th only, 18 persons did not appear, provided that we changed the Law to detain them and immediately enter. Isn't that right? What happened to those 18 faces?! I honestly tell you, the feeling that remains within us and the public after this data is that there is a systematic failure to fulfil obligations. I hope that in the coming months you will come here and report to us that of these 1126 persons there is none that has not been brought to execute the sentence. Otherwise, which Bulgarian citizen will feel safe from now on to walk the streets peacefully, let alone celebrate somewhere in a remote place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Just one clarification, which is important, perhaps to hear it from the stands those who are watching and listening to us. That's right, these numbers must be as they were said by justice. The speciality is, I think since the second half of last year there has been a change in legislation, and already in court when we tell them, "You're for the prison, we don't let them go, we'll pick them up from home, I've got these, Kyustendilian, straight to jail. I hope even with this measure, which thanks to the MPs mine and there is legislation, these numbers will decrease. And, of course, I'm solidarity with you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u192	Eighteen people in 10 days didn't make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u193	That's what I'm saying. Hopefully they'll slow down. I don't think we'll make it to zero. And let's see what international practice is. Where we are and if we need more resources and what needs to be put in this direction, because these are potential, as you said, if not murderers, at least criminals, if convicted. They're not random people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning the inscriptions on the uniforms of Bulgarian police officers, road police and border police. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u195	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, the year is 862. Then the first Bulgarian alphabet was created by Konstantin-Cyril Philosopher. A little later in Preslav at the First Book School in Bulgaria, founded by Prince Boris I, was created the Cyrillic, called so again in honor of Constantine-Cyril Philosopher. One hundred and fifty-six years later, after the Bulgarians have their own alphabet and have created it for more than 11 centuries, the inscriptions on the uniforms of Bulgarian civil servants, such as police officers, road police, border police, their cars and so on, are only Latin, in English, although Britain almost left the European Union. After today 300 million people around the world write in Cyrillic, in the homeland of the Cyrillic, in which seven million Bulgarians live, the inscriptions on the uniforms of the Bulgarian civil servants, such as police officers, road police, border police, their cars and so on, are only in Latina in English. Although from 1 January 2007 with Bulgaria entering the European Union, together with the Latin and Greek alphabet, the Cyrillic alphabet is one of the three official alphabets of the Community, today, 11 years later, the inscriptions on the uniforms of Bulgarian civil servants, such as police officers, road police, border police, on their cars and so on, are only Latin. This brings me to a question formulated on another occasion, of course, years ago by Paisiy Hilendarski. Because you are ashamed to call yourself a Bulgarian and do not read or speak your own language? So, Minister, are Bulgarians ashamed of our language and, if not, why are the inscriptions on the uniforms of Bulgarian civil servants, such as police officers, road police, border police, their cars, their equipment and so on, only in Latin and English? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u196	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u197	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! The administration has prepared three pages for me for this time to read you where and what the inscriptions really are. The short answer can be with only one sentence. "There is no uniform, no car, no signs where there is only English inscription. There are also Bulgarian everywhere. And here you made a speech about who's ashamed and who's not ashamed of the Cyrillic. I don't know where you saw them. Coming out of the Ministry, I was walking around, stopping a cop and making him turn around. He must be watching us and listening to us or he'll hear us tonight. Traffic police here. On the back of it is written the SDVR National Police in Bulgarian. Only here it says "Traffic police" on both sleeves. And I checked it out because seeing how definite your question was, I began to doubt it. In a nutshell, I'll try to tell you where what's written. He has issued such a ministerial order, Ordinance No 8121 of 24 August 2015 on uniform clothing and working clothing for official use in the Ministry of Interior. There are defined where inscriptions are placed, how to put inscriptions. In this Ordinance according to art. 3. 4 is determined that the leggings and emblems of clothing, I don't even know if to read it to you all, there is an Annex No. 2 where it is written... And for example, there's a breastplate. On the breastplate, on the front left part of the jacket, shirt, sweater, on the chest line is placed a rectangular silver inscription with the corresponding structure written in two languages in Bulgarian and below it in English. In Bulgarian security police,.................Policies......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To the right, in English: "Security", "Police Traffic", "Border Police", "Police gendarmerie", "Migration police", "Police." One of the other, one of the other. It's the same with the cars of the General National Police, pay attention, maybe you didn't see it. The inscriptions on the door........................................................................................................ It's the same with Border Police, the same with SOBT Left, right-hand side with the Ministry of Interior in capital letters. Front of front..Police, back of And the last thing I need to pay attention to here is what the police have written to me. And there it is, 25 cars have already branded, you know, inscriptions on the left and right side, writes "Zoopoliya" in Bulgarian, on the front and rear cover "Zoopolice." I do not find from what I have been prepared this reference and from what I have checked, there is no Bulgarian anywhere. If you have seen, you are a MP to ask me, you must have seen something like this, I guarantee that I will check it and it will be done both in Bulgarian and in English, of course, for tourists and mainly for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u199	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! You probably think that with my question, I'm trying to provoke you or in any way to pick on you, that's not the case. This fact, by the way, was addressed to me by a group of citizens who visited my reception last year. I admit that until now I had not taken this seriously, but along with them I looked, as you say, and I didn't see. I don't know what you were looking at or what I'm looking at, but there's a difference in what you're saying and what I'm seeing. I'll check it again, it's not a problem. I thought otherwise, not that it was any major problem for the police to do their job, what will be the inscription, in Bulgarian or in Latin. But I've been thinking about something else, and I'm slowing down the question from last year, and now they reminded me again, recently, when I came to ask you the question. But I thought then how slowly and gradually, and subversively, let's call it that, replace the Bulgarian identity and make us Europeans, but Europeans in quotes, not in the good sense, but in the bad sense Europeans. And I, Minister, ask this question because we must protect the Bulgarian language and Bulgarian identity. Somewhere on the Internet I found the claim that in Russia they wrote more in Cyrillic than in Bulgaria, and I thought, is it possible that this in the homeland of the Cyrillic. I'm telling you again, I'm gonna check what you're telling me, right now in the parking lot, I'm gonna look at the guy. But the very fact, here you are telling me, I'm grasping at what you've read. With large letters on the front cover of police cars it says "Police" and on the side doors it says in small letters "Police" in Bulgarian. It is not normal, I think that as we live in Bulgaria the big inscription should be in Bulgarian. And if it's okay, then for the tourists, for everyone... I don't know how many percent the tourists are and how many percent the Bulgarians are at the moment, but I will agree and check what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u200	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Apparently not. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning the frequent cases of people bitten by domestic dogs. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The mass media has become notoriously aware of the fact over the past week of the bitten child to death by a domestic dog fighting breed. Immediately in the next 24 hours new information came out about an elderly person who was attacked also fortunately eaten seriously, but not to death by also a home dog. Here in front of me is a map of the territory of the continent Europe, which immediately shows that the principles of raising and guarding such a type of pet to call them conditionally are very strict in the vast majority of the continent and the European Union. Only in what I see on the map, on the territory of the Western Balkans, may this have some symbolic meaning, such rules do not exist. There are strict restrictions and strict requirements for these types of fighting breeds. These reports appear periodically in the Bulgarian press and, when a person makes a reference to the regulations for the protection of public order in Sofia Municipality and in the other municipalities of the country, it is evident that these regulations are written very professionally, very conscientiously, but the truth is, I tell you from personal experience that in the territory of Sofia, which I know best as a resident of Sofia, neither in the Borisova Garden nor in the South Park these rules are not respected at all and in no way are controlled by the authorities of the law, were they municipal police or the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Moreover, there are very strict rules for the hours in which walking can take place and the areas in which pet dogs can be walked. And my question to you is that, as Minister of the Interior, what measures do you think he should take and interact with the municipalities, the Ministry of the Interior for the termination of such a type, I will not call it a terrifying but very sad practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u202	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihailov! Under the Animal Health Act and the Animal Protection Act, the Bulgarian Food Safety Association controls compliance with animal protection and humanitarian treatment requirements, carries out checks on alerts in cases of detected violations and imposes sanctions on animals. Local authorities shall carry out controls for the abandonment of animals in the territory of the municipality, for the identification and registration of dogs, for compliance with the requirements for the protection of animals in shelters and in the territory of the municipality concerned. In accordance with art. 472, para. 4 of the Act on Veterinary Practice, infringements relating to non-exercise control of domestic animals, where there is no crime, shall be established by acts drawn up by inspectors from municipalities and regions. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the respective mayors. As an example, I can point out that in terms of control of the territory of Sofia Municipality, according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the acquisition, possession and cultivation of domestic animals, control bodies within the meaning of the Ordinance are the mayor of Sofia Municipality, mayors of the districts, settlements and officials of the Sofia Inspectorate. In accordance with art. 18 of the same regulation in the case of written signals for an aggressive dog at a known address, a joint inspection shall be carried out by an inspector of the regional administration and a representative of a non-governmental organisation. When the written alert is for an aggressive dog at an unknown breeding address, there is already a police representation from the respective district office. It only facilitates the establishment of the address. That's what we do. Upon receiving a signal in the Ministry's structure for an aggressive dog, for which there is sufficient evidence that it can carry out an attack, the signal shall be forwarded to the competent authorities of the mayors of municipalities and districts. The Penal Code provides for sanctions to prevent sufficient care for a spinal animal, you know that, art. 325c, the third, the first two are for dogs what we do with them and how we sanction the Ministry of Interior, the third is if they hurt a person. In order to improve the work on dealing with the issues since the beginning of 2016 at the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior National Police, a sector of Kinology and Crime against Animals has been formed, you know that we are now creating a Zoopoly with 433 employees who will deal with this topic. And to jump here because I see that our time is progressing, a number in 2017 has been formed in the country 60 pre-trial proceedings for crimes under this article. 325c "60 pre-trial proceedings for the entire year 2017 by the Criminal Code "Unexercised control of an animal, resulting in bodily harm or death of a person, as was unfortunate with that child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u204	Thank you, Minister Radev. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u205	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! From the reference we made before we raised the question to you, indeed, as you have expressed in your relations, the main part of the obligations currently being executed by the government in Bulgaria are not within the authority of the Ministry of Interior. However, the sad cases that occur periodically and quite often, unfortunately, in the press, regardless of those 60 cases that you shared in pre-trial proceedings will not solve the problem in the absence of interaction, because for me, as a Bulgarian citizen, the only institution that can carry out preventive actions, determined in the conduct of such a type of aggressive behaviour, and by no means, such a sad incident, which I have already mentioned, are the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. My proposal to you is for the Ministry of Interior to seek the opportunity to extend the powers in this field of public order protection, because, in my opinion, without being able to make a preliminary assessment of this, the Zoopolis that you have now formed has, above all, under the influence and pressure of the Association for Animal Protection, to prevent animal violence, unfortunately. This is, of course, a noble goal, but we are people and we are primarily interested in protecting the personal sovereignty of each individual citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u206	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mihailov, you and I seem to have an arrangement. I'm opening up Zoopolia, and you're asking me a question now, and maybe you asked it earlier, and I didn't get a chance to come to control a few times because of the Presidency, and on the other hand, you're asking me the opposite. You understand the state we're in, the police? And that's why I'm already exactly 22 minutes late for a meeting. I've invited four paws, animal suit and non-governmental organizations to do just that. Where's the sight? Actually, if we have to change anything... I told them several times: don't expect the police to protect animals so much that they forget about people. They're three members, the other 300 are for the people. And we need to make a very good balance, not to expect that we will only save animals, but to start saving or actually keep saving, and adequately. I agree with you.. Searching for the measure, we must make sure that there are greater guarantees for people. It's terrifying: a dog to kill a man! I don't know if I should say this from the stands, but we humans, the highest in the food chain, eat animals. How is it the opposite in such developed societies? I fully agree with you, and we will try to find the measure so that we do not go into this Zoopolis, and by saving everything else, to forget, to reduce pressure on cases, as was the one that just happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u208	Thank you, dear Minister! Allow me to thank the Interior Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Finance. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on tax incentives for using new, less polluting cars. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, covering the entire range of ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, according to data from the European Environment Agency Bulgaria is one of the most polluted countries in the European Union and Sofia is among the dirtiest capitals. One of the main culprits for pollution, along with the heating of solid fuels, is the automotive sector. The number of cars is increasing progressively, with some households owning two, three and so on cars, and car manufacturers and fuel manufacturers trying at least to minimize and reduce the negative impact their products leave on the environment. Globally, new and new cars and fuels are being produced that have a significantly reduced impact on the environmental state. This is nice, but with this poverty in Bulgaria most of the Bulgarians buy and drive second-hand cars, charge cheap fuels and cannot be angry with them, and another approach must be found. For example, citizens are encouraged to buy newer, more environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly cars because they spend, understand, burn smaller amounts of fuel, have more reliable catalysts, clean up and so on, and cause less damage to the environment and people. Against the backdrop of civil society organisations that have jumped against the lack of adequate measures against the dirty air, my conviction is, and the world experience shows that not by bans, sanctions and restrictions, but by incentives to people, the state can reduce air pollution. Therefore, Minister, I draw your attention to a different aspect within the context of the problem and in the context of the debate during these last months: how does the taxes on clean air affect? It is about the way in which the amount of local car tax is determined by applying a correction coefficient. The coefficient is different, is linked to the year of the production of the car and the rule currently applied in the Law: a newer car, a higher coefficient.. with a clear effect than that on the amount of the specific tax for the particular car. My question to you, Minister, is: does it also correspond to how such a rule with the desire and measures to solve the problem of contaminated air? Are you planning any tax measures to stimulate the use of new ones at the expense of the reduced number of older cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u210	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister Goranov, for the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u211	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I begin the answer to the question, I would like to congratulate you on today's celebration is the Holy Spirit. Otherwise, the issue of car taxation is significant in terms of social aspects. The basic provision governing the taxation of vehicles is art. 55 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The elements from which the base and the size of the vehicle tax are formed for passenger cars are two. You mentioned them in your question: engine power and coefficient depending on the year of production, which is inversely proportional. The accepted method of taxation and the existing tax reliefs are the result of a sought balance between the effect on business, citizens, revenues and expenditure in the municipal and state budget, taking into account environmental standards. However, at the same time as the approach taken in art. 55 is also provided for tax relief in Art. 55. 59 of the ZMDT Law on Local Taxes and Fees related to the environmental categories of road vehicles, it provides for a relief for three groups of vehicles. In the first are the vehicles corresponding to the ecological categories Euro 3, 4, 5, 6 and category EEV. According to the tax relief envisaged, taxation is subject to environmental standards with regard to emission standards for greenhouse gases and consists of a reduction in the tax for the relevant year from 50 to 60 per cent. In the second group are buses, trucks, trailers and tractors with engines corresponding to environmental categories Euro 3, 4, 5, 6 and category EEV and the tax on these vehicles shall be paid by 40 to 50 per cent of the reduction from those defined under art. 55th tax. In the third group, funds are provided with active catalysts and non-compliance with the environmental categories listed above and the determined tax for the respective year is reduced by 20 to 40 per cent by the decision of the municipal council. It is apparent that, in relation to environmental integrity, the higher amount of tax relief is introduced, i.e. when vehicles are fitted with active catalysts or do not meet a higher category than the Several circumstances have been taken into account in the adoption of the cited texts in the ZMDT by the National Assembly: the purpose and effectiveness of the proposed legislative changes, the consequences for all stakeholders, as well as the proposed measure. In order to protect the environment for the period 2013 A number of benefits related to the environmental performance of vehicles, such as electric cars, motorcycles and mopeds, have been accepted, and as of 1 January 2018, electric vehicles of categories L5e, L6e and L7e, as defined in art. 4 of EU Regulation 168/2013. The current direct tax policy, including local taxes, is in line with the overall tax policy for maintaining direct tax rates and tax reductions, not allowing new additional reliefs. I'm not gonna use the backrest here, and I'm gonna finish up a comment on the subject. You know that the ownership and use of a car in Bulgaria, in view of the relatively low income levels in the country, is extremely easy and cheap. On the one hand, we buy and allow on the territory of Bulgaria to move second-hand cars. We have become, unfortunately, the tomb of Europe, using all possible second-hand vehicles from Western Europe with questionable environmental standards and quality. In addition, if you consider the state's overall policy regarding the ownership and use of a car, passing through control of the current state of cars, the state of the roads, the state of control over driver's competence, we conclude that owning a car in Bulgaria is extremely cheap. This balance to maintain with regard to the fact that our society is a relatively poor, low price to own a car and the subject of allowing only quality cars in line with environmental standards is a difficult balance. If what is being proposed is an increase in the tax on motor vehicles for those who pollute more, it will inevitably lead to an increase in the tax on low income groups, a balance that we should look for together. I intend to propose, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance, in the next few months, changes to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees relating not only to motor vehicles, but entirely to the concept of taxation of these movable and immovable property which are subject to taxation under ZMDT. Entrepreneurship in general, which benefits local budgets, needs improvement, as it is backward and outdated. But with one hand, when you raise the issue of environmental standards, the other you have to take into account that the rebalance of the system would lead to an increase in the burden on hypothetically cheaper cars and a reduction in the burden on the more expensive ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u212	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am aware that the main environmental and clean air measures are outside the scope of the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Minister as a whole, but they must be directed towards transport, heating, as regards the domestic aspect of pollution, as far as the industrial aspect is concerned, the task is even more complex and the competences are multidisciplinary, if I may say so. I am pleased with your answer and I think about it more or less like you, but not in the basic answer, but in the thoughts you have said on the subject. It is right to look for balance and I mentioned it in the exhibition for asking the question that poverty in Bulgaria is great. By asking the question, I am not talking about increasing the current tax on those people driving old cars, but about financial incentives to those who are willing to buy new cars. I'll go back to my reception room. A lot of people come in and ask questions, people there give discounts when taxes are cut, when buying a new car and so on, and we have a load on us. Somehow it's not facing tax policy in the right direction. The issue is extremely complicated and there is some balance to be sought, and I admit honestly that I do not see how balance can be found at this stage. And as far as the pleasure of having and driving a car in Bulgaria is cheap, I attach it to the fact that the car is no longer extra, as it was in the near past, but is an absolute necessity, and it is impossible to operate the Bulgarian family without the presence of at least one car. Mr. Minister, I think that only with complex measures can we take a decisive step in solving this problem and I am glad that you will cause such a discussion and we will consider it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u214	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I especially thank the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov for his participation in parliamentary control today. We continue with Georgi Gokov's question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the sustainability of the services of the resident type applicable to children from the closed homes for children deprived of care or with special needs. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, seven-eight years after the start of the process of deinstitutionalization in Bulgaria in 2010 there should be a sustainable trend for reducing the number of children placed in specialized institutions, this process is parallel to the extension of the network of services of resident type. However, the number of abandoned children, especially newborns up to three years, does not seem to decrease, mainly because of the lack of and insufficient early intervention and prevention of abandonment. Other crucial factors for the abandonment of children are institutionalization of children whose parents are in extreme poverty or have disabilities. It is logical that the dynamic process of closing institutions is accompanied by a significant increase in the number of social services provided in the community and by a resident type, which are an alternative to institutional care for children. Many of the children were taken out of the institutions under the conditions of different resident services. This reform has been refinanced primarily with funds from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. The statistics that I was able to get to show that, as of 31 December 2012, the total capacity of the homes for children deprived of parental care was 2916 seats and 2361 seats were occupied. The capacity of the homes for children with disabilities is 1372, and the working places 1185. Five years later the capacity of the homes for children deprived of parental care was 696 seats occupied by 479, and the homes for children with disabilities no longer exist. The last six mentally retarded homes were closed in 2016, and we welcome this. Now we come to the core of the problem: whether children in family-type accommodation centers are receiving adequate care, especially from the point of view of the cases of violence against children in the homes of the "Hrisantema" and the "Peaceful days" in Gabrovo. Is that an exception or a mass practice? The question to you is: how does Bulgaria fulfil its commitment to ensure sustainability of these newly created services? Are the means of maintenance required as standard? Are the standards of care respected? Is there a problem with hiring low-paying staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u216	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister Petkov, please come in and answer this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, since 2010 Bulgaria has conducted a consistent and targeted policy for deinstitutionalization of child care, thanks to which significant results have been achieved. 101 specialized institutions are closed, including all specialized institutions for children with disabilities. He also reduced the number of children in specialized institutions by more than 88% from 7587 children in 2010 to 906 at the end of 2017. The social services network in the community for children and families has developed significantly, with 371 new services for children being created for the period. These services are sustainable thanks to funding from the state budget. Financial standards for social services delegated by the State, including staff remuneration, are also raised annually. For 2018, funding for social services has been increased by 19 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. in relation to those for 2017. The total amount is 230 million. 900,000. lv. In particular, the maintenance of one child per year in a family-type accommodation centre for children and young people with disabilities was increased to BGN 11 580, which is 37% more compared to the base year 2010. The development of proposals for standards for financing social services in 2019. Again, an increase in standards for resident services will be proposed where 24-hour care is provided. With regard to the issue of standards of care, I would like to point out that there is legislation for them. The Regulation on criteria and standards for social services for children lays down all requirements for social services for children. The monitoring of their compliance shall be carried out by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. Under the Social Assistance Act, mayors not only manage social services delegated by the state and local activities, but also are responsible for meeting the criteria and standards for providing them. The most important factor for good and quality care for children is the staff. Currently, around 5,000 people work in all types of social services for children in the community. The municipalities also have a commitment to providing training and opportunities for staff development by using both their own and external resources. In this regard, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy also supports the process of increasing the competence of specialists in social services. Measures and activities in this direction are provided for in the updated Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy "Vision for the Deinstitutionalization of Children in the Republic of Bulgaria." Through funding from the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" (2014-2020) two projects are being implemented. The Agency for Social Assistance implements the Project "Increasing the capacity of employees in the field of child protection, social services and social assistance" which will be trained by 6000 people working social services. Activities will also be implemented for the supervision of the teams of crisis intervention services, for cross-sectoral coordination links with different units and others. The second important project is the project "New standards for social services" of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which will develop new quality standards, criteria for assessing the effectiveness of services and new models and standards for financing, as well as a monitoring and control system. To conclude, I would like to point out that the main purpose of the process is not only to remove children from institutions, but to improve their lifestyles in general, which includes caring for them. To this end, professionals are required to receive constant support in the process of work. These are exactly the objectives and activities that are already being carried out or are to be realised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u218	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u219	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. I want to share with you that I couldn't think much of the numbers you told me, but I'm going to see the transcript. I feel like my deinstitutionalization data was better than the ones you gave, which is good. Nevertheless, my observations are that prevention and family support services are not at the necessary level to effectively prevent children from entering the institutional care system and beyond. There are good examples of good practices across the country, which are even documented in a number of reports, but they are not applied in a systematic manner in all municipalities. As if the cases do prevail, like the two homes in Gabrovo. Perhaps they do not prevail, but there is an impression in the public domain that good practices in homes are less than bad practices in homes, because perhaps bad practices irritate society extremely much and rightly so. Prevention is falling behind. Actions really need to focus more on prevention and on family support. The interdepartmental work on the Oceature "Health" police, and so on as if there is, but how do we explain the existence of inappropriate, unnecessary accommodations, for which the only reason and motivation is poverty? What are the links of deinstitutionalization to measures to combat poverty.. a very important link, because if we do not solve one problem, there is no way to solve the other. Is there a need for changes in legislation, or a new legislation, a new Family Support Act, Social Support Act, Social Services Act, Education Act and so on? Again, from personal observations, I have reason to conclude that the workload and tensions of the employees, for example, in the Department of Children Protection. Even the public has accepted this, perhaps only the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not understand it, not to mention the salaries of the people who work in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u220	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are for the coat, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would first like to make an important statement: signals and relevant confirmations and facts of violence.. verbally and physically, over children are found in the Family Type Accommodation House on the street. "Hrisantema" in Gabrovo. In the other home, which is located on the Street of Mirny Days, there are no such violations. On the contrary, the verification of the State Agency for Child Protection confirms that the rights of children in this house are fully guaranteed. I am making this important clarification because I say that it should not be a case which I say is not a mass practice to generalise. In fact, in Gabrovo, two identical homes were found a completely different state. It's about the Hrysanthema, it's a lot of talk about this case, about interpersonal conflicts, about staff problems that, unfortunately, have been reflected on consumers, on children. I would also like to say very briefly: prevention is undoubtedly important. What is being done and continues to be done with deinstitutionalization and laid down as measures in the updated Plan for the realization of the Strategy "Vision for the deinstitutionalization of the care for children" is the development of accompanying services in the community of the type of public support centres, centers for social rehabilitation and integration, which allow for real reintegration of children who use resident services. In this direction will continue the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and will continue the efforts for better remuneration of those employed in the child protection system, within the framework of the ASP, as you stressed, these are the Departments of Child Protection. In fact, there are many bodies that are responsible for the protection of the child under Bulgarian law. This is what I would like to say in response to your further comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u222	Allow me to thank Minister Biser Petkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. It is asked by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov for application under the Operational Programme "Environment" (2014-2020) by a consolidated water service operator on the territory of Shumen district. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear Minister, the current issue is dictated by the interest which not only I, but also the noisy public, and the residents of Shumen district have on the implementation of projects under the Operational Programme), and in particular a statement by the Deputy Minister of Regional Development a month ago to noisy media that the Shumen operator is almost ready with its project. It was announced that by March the selection of performers should begin. My question is which one is true. Can you answer whether the Water and Water Agency has applied under the Operational Programme "Environment" (2014-2020)? 2020.) What project did the company apply for? Does the submitted project meet all the requirements of the Operational Programme? Separately: are there specific requirements for individual infrastructure projects related to the number of residents in the territory of the individual municipalities in Shumen district? Will the regional pre-investment studies carried out in the volume specific to the Shumen region provided after their final completion be carried out? Just to say, Minister, that you answered a written question in June 2017, where it is said that the application will most likely be in two stages. The first stage, in the sense of Directive 91/271 for agglomerations of more than 10 thousand. Resident equivalent, second priority, agglomerations between 2000 and 10 thousand. equivalent residents in order to provide clean drinking water for the population in the separate territory of the water operator? I say again: the Deputy Minister of Regional Development has announced that such people will no longer be able to apply. I've found some modifications to the operational program. You will tell what is real, what is happening and what are the reasons for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u225	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! In answer to your question, I will in fact try to inform you of the situation to date and of the possibilities. At present, the Managing Authority of Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020" did not call the water operators for financing of water projects under the current programming period, respectively, the Water and Water Services, Shumen Ltd, had no legal basis to apply until now for funding under the Programme. A procedure for preparing regional pre-investment studies was announced in 2015 and a Financing Treaty was signed with a beneficiary Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In 2016, research preparation contracts were concluded in 14 consolidated areas which were served by one water operator. These are: Burgas, Sliven, Shumen, Plovdiv, Kardzhali, Yambol, Varna, Dobrich, Silistra, Ruse, Stara Zagora, Vidin, Vratsa and Pernik. The Managing Authority of the Programme envisages, either in the first quarter of this year or in the second quarter of this year, to invite all 14 operators of these consolidated areas, including the Water and Water Community. The main measures that will be supported under the forthcoming procedure are related to the collection and treatment of waste water, the provision of clean and safe drinking water for the population and the means of the procedure will be aimed at amasses of more than 10 thousand equivalent inhabitants with the application of optimal and resource-efficient technological solutions. Within the forthcoming phase 3 of the Project implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the IPIP will be developed in these regional pre-investment studies for all agglomerations and less than 10 thousand equivalents for the respective designated territory. In regional surveys of the Shumen district's separate territories, investment projections in the respective settlements in the Shumen region should also be considered in detail. The task of the performers of these 14 IPIPs is to offer possible sources of funding for investment projects in agglomerations, which are less than 10 thousand equivalents of residents, which will not be covered by Operational Programme
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u226	Thank you, Dear Minister Dimov. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! To a large extent, what you are answering answers my questions because my personal surprise is that the Deputy Minister, again, is telling regional development in Shumen that the water operator will start choosing a contractor to build a drinking water treatment plant as early as March. At the same time, we also find, according to your answer, that this thing has not yet happened. And the most disturbing thing is that you have dispelled my doubts in this direction, is that the water is not going to be able to receive funding for settlements with agglomerations of less than 10,000 equivalent inhabitants. My request is, if any further information is provided related to the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" and, in particular, to the Shumen region, to come out of the Ministry of Environment and Water, because this issue has been largely dictated by the mayors of the settlements which are included in this IPIP, which has been carried out, and is presented as final by today, as far as I understand from your response, and tension has been created, including the Deputy Minister of Regional Development, announced specifically for which municipalities it will receive funding and for which it will not be obtained, by saying here in particular the municipality of Veliki Preslav was intended for the construction of a leading collector for replacement, i.e. the sending collector. It has been reported that there will be none, which has aroused discontent among the local population. I expect that if this information really proved true, I now hear from your speech, they had prepared themselves for protests. My request is, Dear Mr. Dimov, and with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme, respectively with the Ministry of Regional Development, to make sure that the official information on this subject comes out only of you, because indeed at the moment this response you are giving me is reassuring to the residents of Shumen district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here's your coat, Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u229	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! I just want to correct something. You said there would be no funding for under 10,000 equivalent residents. In fact, those who develop regional pre-investment studies must find sources with which this can be financed. There will be no such funding under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020" but does not mean that it will not be available on other lines. So this is something in the job that is given, and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as a beneficiary has assigned this task, and you have to come up with concrete proposals when we talk about agglomerations below 10,000 equivalent residents. And for more than 10 thousand are under the first quarter or second quarter of 2018, the current year should be and will probably be announced. It is unlikely that by the first quarter we will be able to announce the reception for those who are ready, but it will probably be there in the second quarter. This was a preliminary program I've been talking about over time. So there may have been some misunderstanding at this point, but this is the official information I can now give you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u230	Thank you, Dear Minister Dimov. We thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. She will answer a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, and from the National Representative Christian Mitev on government policy regarding the implementation of measures for protection against domestic violence. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! We are addressing you, Madam Minister, as MPs from the Parliamentary Group.............in relation to the government's policy for implementing measures, including legislative measures, for protection against domestic violence. In Bulgaria, a law on protection against domestic violence was adopted in 2005. Criminal groups are also included in the Penal Code, which implements the criminal law protection of individuals who are victims of domestic violence. We believe that these provisions in Bulgarian legislation provide the necessary minimum standards to ensure protection against domestic violence. On 3 January this year, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. On 15 January 2018, the Convention was submitted for ratification to the National Assembly. These actions of the Bulgarian government created huge public tensions among Bulgarian citizens. Voicing our firm opinion that the minimum standards for protection against domestic violence introduced in the convention have long been part of the Bulgarian legislation and are successfully implemented by the executive bodies, we ask you the following question: has an impact assessment been made, including the effectiveness and efficiency of the measures applied at this time to protect against domestic violence in the country's regulatory framework? What are the results of such an analysis if one has been carried out? What assessment has been made and does the Ministry of Justice intend to make similar to the legislation in force in view of future legislative changes in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u232	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you are, Minister Tsacheva, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u233	Dear Madam President, Mr. Mitev, honourable Members of Parliament! In response to your question, I state that the draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention, is stepping on a comprehensive analysis of the Bulgarian legislation to improve the national legal framework in accordance with the standards of the Council of Europe and strengthening the capacity of competent institutions dealing with domestic violence cases, as well as on the assessment and analysis of each text of the Convention with the current Bulgarian legislation, necessary future legislative changes and the order in which they should be implemented. In general, this assessment looks like this. [[Shows.]] It was prepared as a result of the adopted National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence for 2014 at the time of Prime Minister Oresharski's cabinet. In Section V the Ministry of Justice is responsible for carrying out an analysis of the compliance of Bulgarian legislation with the need to sign and ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The funding is provided under the Norwegian mechanism. The assessment and analysis clearly states that the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence and Changes in the Penal Code, although they have taken partial steps over the years to improve this regulation, are not sufficient because we lack in the State a comprehensive legal framework for the protection of women and girls from all forms of violence and to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against them, as is the overall case in the Istanbul Convention. In implementation of this national programme and the Norwegian Mechanism Project in March 2017 during the caretaker government appointed by President Radev, a round table was held which took into account the analysis and results of the Norwegian Mechanism Project, with representatives of the judiciary, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the non-governmental sector present at this round table. The assessment of the regulations currently carried out, in view of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, as well as good practices in other European countries, has led to a clear conclusion. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry, but the question is... Two more minutes. If I have to, I won't take the back. I have to take this. It's very bulky material, I can't fit in within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u234	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u235	Thank you for understanding. Conclusions and recommendations have been made to amend the Bulgarian legislation in order to improve the legal framework. It is reported that the only correct approach leading to full protection and support is bringing our legislation into line with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. After a comprehensive and complete analysis, experts have accepted that it is the fundamental basis of international violence against women, the same clearly and categorically justifies the fact that equality between women and men is impossible when women become victims of violence only because they are women. That is why it is accepted that changes only in separate laws, as you claim "the House of Domestic Violence and the Penal Code" will not lead to consistency between all institutions and the fight against violence. These changes will not introduce integrated policies to ensure a comprehensive response to the necessary countermeasures before punishment and penalty are reached against the perpetrator. If you wish, I can provide you with these provisions in order to get acquainted with them in detail. Thank you for understanding, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u236	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. You've got a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer. Thank you for this answer, as it actually answers the basic question that we have asked with our colleague Veselinov: has there been a follow-up assessment of the impact with regard to the Law on Domestic Violence adopted in 2005 as well as with regard to the criminal groups in the Criminal Code. I am also satisfied with what you have shown as a purely technical medium of the evaluation. It became clear that it was financed by the Norwegian Financial Cooperation Mechanism at the Ministry of Justice. However, while I, not excluding the integrated approach you spoke about, with other additional changes in Bulgarian legislation, continue to believe, at least at this stage, that changes in both the Law on Domestic Violence and the Penal Code and other legislation aimed at protecting women and persons suffering from domestic violence can be made and should be made, regardless of when and whether the Istanbul Convention will be ratified. We should not wait for ratification to start making such changes, which, evidently from the assessment of the impact you have made, should be carried out by the Ministry of Justice, jointly, of course, with the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u238	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you are for the coat, Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u239	Dear Madam President, Mr. Mitev, honourable Members of Parliament! I will provide you with an evaluation and analysis of the gaps in the current Bulgarian legislation in the field of domestic violence, as well as an improvement of the national legal framework in line with Europe's standards and strengthening the capacity of the competent institutions, where you will be thoroughly acquainted with what I have exported within the short few minutes for which I have the opportunity to inform you. I cannot accept your thesis that without ratification of the Istanbul Convention, such a comprehensive and complex approach could be achieved for a change in Bulgarian legislation. In support of this, I will refer to the Plan adopted by the government on 3 January this year to combat violence and domestic violence, in which the Ministry of Justice again has a number of responsibilities, including the modification of a large part of the acts that need updating, but there is written everywhere as a condition ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-02.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question for today and this week. The next regular meeting on Wednesday 7 February 2018, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
