ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u1	Colleagues, good afternoon, everyone! Happy Anton's day! Alive and healthy, my lords! Lots of luck, happiness and a happy holiday tonight. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month - not the first, but we will consider it the first Wednesday. That's why the program is formed by art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups, today are the first proposals from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" and the first point is: - First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the settlement of rights of citizens with multi-annual housing and savings deposits. Aleksandar Siddi, Yordan Yordanov and Christian Mitev were brought in on September 20, 2017. They are second from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. They suggested: - First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy. Importers are Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on 26 October 2017. Proposals from the parliamentary group of Volja.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal from the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria - Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Exporters are Atanas Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 23 November 2017. The next items on the agenda are: 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion. Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs were importing on 19 October 2017. 5. Draft Decision to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the validation of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Bornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 December 2017. 6. Second vote on the Private Security Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2017. 7. Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2017. Point one for Thursday. 8. Parliamentary control "Friday, 19 January 2018, from 9.00 p.m. including: 8.1. Debates on asking, No 754-05-56, dated 22 November 2017 by MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy; 8.2. Answer questions and questions. Please vote on the program from the points after those read under art. 53, para. 8. They voted 193 MPs: 177, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 11 January 2018 to 16 January 2018: - Annual report on the Commission's activities to prevent and establish conflicts of interest for 2017. The Commission is the importer for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. - A bill for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. - Draft for ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of transport services on the surface to provide activities of the armed forces. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. Messages: - Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the time from January 15th 2018 to January 26th 2018 will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility of the School of Polygon. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2018 and is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by another country or organisation of armed forces. The notification was received on 15 January 2018 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. - On 12 January 2018 the National Assembly was provided, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the topic: "Instruction of preparation for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Eurozone." The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about inflation and consumer price indices for December 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it as a point in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RIGHTS OF CIVILS WITH MANY LIVING-SPECIFIED VOLUNTS, No 754-01-5, of 20 September 2017 He was introduced by the MPs Alexander Siddi, Yordan Yordanov and Christian Mitev. [[Replication by National Representative Anton Kutev: "Procedure."]] Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u2	Dear Madam President, in relation to the bill which enters as the first point. I understand that this is the right of the patriots, that is, her right is, in relation to our Rules, the point to be imported in this way. I am not opposed to her going in there, of course, but there is a problem about how our Rules work from the point of view that when there are two bills on the same matter, which on top of everything overlap to about 80%, they should be viewed together. There is a bill that we have introduced three colleagues, which concerns the same matter and which, as I said, overlaps 80%, that is, it is logical that the two bills should be united in a general examination that is not currently happening. My question is: how will this work? Does that mean we're going to look at the other bill separately after this one's been rejected or accepted, which is ridiculous? I just don't understand, purely from the point of view of the Rules, how can this mechanism happen? In my opinion, we should unite the two bills, which I do not want to prevent colleagues from doing so, but there is another problem: these bills have been submitted on 29 September, which means it has been four months since then, and they, for one reason or another, have not yet passed committees. How do we look at a bill that has not passed through committees, and on top of that, there are two bills that we currently need to look at separately? I think we're getting into a case that's untenable. I don't know how you're gonna solve this, but the point itself is untenable. Again, I do not want to prevent my fellow Members from passing their bill, but the point is that we are getting into a situation that I think is out of the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u3	Mr. Kutev, colleagues have the right to enter under art. 53, para. 8 proposal for a item on the agenda and I have allowed them into this hypothesis. So, for example, you can bring it in under art. 53, para. 3. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will present to you the reasons by which we have tabled our draft amendment to the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits. The law on the settlement of the rights of citizens with multi-annual savings deposits was adopted in 1991 and the period for compensation of citizens has been extended many times. More than 315 thousand were initially deposits in the State Savings Fund, and the lists included 155 650 citizens, and in 25 years 101 178 citizens were compensated or about 65% of the total number. About 55,000 citizens continue to expect compensation. As the years progress and the inflation process grows, the mistrust of the citizens in the serious intentions of the state to implement the Law, as the means of compensation are still short. As of March 2016, the National Housing Compensation Fund paid the so-called interest rates to lawmakers within the meaning of the Law, who had acquired housing as of April 2011. Only for compensation to the others who had acquired housing and expected compensation by 2016 are required about 80 million. lv. Many have purchased houses for loans from banks and have to wait four or five years to be compensated by the state, and often find themselves unable to pay off their loans and their homes are taken away. If the same state policy is maintained, at the current amount of funds in the Fund to compensate for the remaining about 55 thousand citizens, savers are needed for another 20 years. The Act in force provides for proceeds from the National Housing Compensation Fund, but does not determine their amount, which is why in the last five or six years are annually separated from the State around 11 million. lv. Receipts from sold property, which was taken in favour of the state, are also not available, and the Law has foreseen such proceeds to enter the Fund. The levial compensation for one interest point is 8 cents from 2008 and has not been changed to this day, which is contrary to the rule laid down in the Law that its value is determined by inflation and the movement of housing prices. It is even more absurd that its value is also linked to the funds available in the Fund, which means that if the funds in the Fund decrease, the price of one interest point will also fall. Because of the extremely low price at which the interest bars are cashed, some of their owners neglected the demand for their rights, all the more so that many of the then savers are now elderly people. After 30 November 2016, the State will no longer accept claims for compensation and does not accept them, and until 31 December 2019 is the period within which the State must finally pay back the citizens who are entitled to it. It is evident from the data I presented to you that this is not going to happen in practice. Thus, the State will not be able to fulfil its obligation under the funds that are allocated to the budget at this time each year for the payment of these interest rates to the entitled persons. It follows from the above that the policy of the state regarding these tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens is not in their interest and it is only a matter of time before they lose the funds their parents have saved for many years. The proposed amendments to the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Long-term Housing Deposits affect 55 thousand Bulgarian citizens and they provide for speeding up and easing the process of paying interest currents. It is envisaged that they can be inherited both by law and by will. They are also introduced as a means of payment for the payment of due taxes and fees to the State and municipalities. An extension of two years has been proposed to request payment of interest rates by their owners and to remove the deadline within which the State has to repay all claims claimed. Since the Bill does not provide for new financial obligations of the State, apart from the already existing commitments to the holders of interest-bearing instruments, it has no additional financial burden on the budget. In conclusion, I call on you to support this bill. It will help practically the government and the state to fulfil their commitments without violating the Law and, on the other hand, will solve the problems of these around 55 thousand Bulgarian citizens who expect compensation on the basis of the current Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I'm opening the debate on the submitted bill. You have the floor, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is no accident that we are importing this bill. Its submission is the result of a lasting policy of the party......................................... to solve certain problems........................................................... We are constant in our politics and have never forgotten what we have promised and what we have done before. We are continuing the policy of the IMRO as well as the IMRO since 2005, and now as the United Patriarchs, although united at first glance three different parties, we have the same objectives, the same tasks to protect the interests of our voters. We did this when we were opposition, but we do it, as you can see, and now that we are ruling. Because it's uncomfortable for the government to allocate a resource that's quite millions. The resistance has always been mostly in the finance ministers, which should be allocated from the small budget, from the small opportunities they have, and to cover some very old obligations, which are very often more than 30 years old, 40 years old, if you will, and 50 years old. As a matter of fact, when we were opposition, although with three hundred dawns, one or the other rulers supported us and this is one of the laws that passed our laws. We also have lasting practice in this regard. Madam President, there was a very good remark from the BSP that the two bills had to be seen, so is the rule of law, under para. 7... was like this in past regulations. At the moment, I cannot tell which text is the text and which paragraph is the article again. 37, para. 7. I am referring to the first week of the month's import proposals. Then we import all the bills that are on this subject. Indeed, the BSP Bill we have looked at, we have read it is covered not by 80, but by more than the percentage with ours. The two should be considered simultaneously and then some compilation should be made between the two readings. There was nothing wrong with him being examined. I am going out on the stand with the call for all I am talking about both the rulers and the opposition to support this bill because it is useful for the Bulgarian citizens. A justice is served for those who have contributed money with the good intention of receiving a home. For one reason or another, either in the light of legislation or in the light of socio-economic conditions in the country, they have failed to obtain their dream home. Let us give this opportunity to postpone the deadline, because this is the main action of the Bill. Before there were 600,000 Bulgarian citizens, now their number has decreased, but now it is hundreds of thousands. We're talking, I repeat, about pure justice and all of us supporting the bill. The state has these opportunities, the budget has an increase. We're all talking about some money that's left behind that's extra collected. These citizens should not be disappointed in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Come in for a statement, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u8	Dear colleagues! The bill we are looking at right now, of course, will support it, because, as I have already said, it largely coincides with the bill that we had tabled. Before we submitted our bill, we brought it in representatives of the "Volja" and the DPS and the BSP. I went through the groups and GERB and the Patriots with a proposal to support it because it makes sense. This parliamentary practice, which suddenly one decided to submit a parallel bill, then we one, you another, fine, if you want to watch your bill and you are importers, be importers as long as we do the work of the people. However, the problem is that there are some minor differences in the two bills that are not to be underestimated. I hope that we will find the parliamentary way in which we will put together the two bills, especially if this one is adopted today, because it is undoubtedly useful. The volume of those interested in this Bill is about 55 thousand people, at least by what I have as information. The difference in the current legislation is that by the end of 2019 the payment of the rights to date should be completed, which should mean that no more than 25-30 million will be paid. If the deadlines for subscription and repayment are extended, that money becomes 215 million, i.e. the difference in which the state will not pay the people the interest rates, is 190 million if the Law enters into force. I very much hope that it will enter because it is money that Bulgarian citizens 30 years ago gave to the state and have not yet received in practice. We will support the Bill, but in this Bill you have tabled, there are two things that are practically very difficult to do. Frankly, one of them could be legal absurd. The first is that the extension of the deadline... By the way, this one-to-one law is Willy Lilkov's law. I would like to draw attention to everyone that the Law of Willy Lilkov in the previous National Assembly was adopted by all parliamentary groups unanimously. I really wish this Law would do the same. The problem, however, is that when Willy Lilkov wrote the Law and a group of MPs along it, then the period for recording housing savings deposits has not yet expired. So then he acted, and the idea of extending the deadline that is at stake here is legally relevant. At the moment, however, this period has already expired. That means you can't extend a term that's expired. A new term must be created in the pure logic of law. This is one of the differences between one and the other bill. In the other Bill, which is not currently being viewed, we have foreseen not an extension of the deadline, but a new deadline for this to be legal logic. The second thing that is at stake here and exhausted from the previous bill was the opportunity to pay taxes with the respective interest rates. To be honest, we removed it because when we talked to a lot of the organizations that represent people with interest rates, they didn't want to, because that's a different kind of payment. People themselves said that this was wrong because the money we gave for apartments is one thing, and the taxes we pay are another. We removed it from the other Bill with the idea that we are talking about two principle differences of money and therefore there is no point in being here at will, I say again, to the representatives of the organizations themselves of the people with interest flows. I conclude with this.... I very much hope to support again with unanimity the bill, as it has been supported, including by the GERB group in the past National Assembly with unanimity. I hope we can all support him, because the bill makes sense. The state really owes these people money. I hope between first and second reading to unite the two bills. Or if you don't want to unite them, you want to lead the dance, fine, we'll make the proposals from our bill in this between first and second readings, let it be said that Ataka is doing it. The least I can do is be jealous of who imports the Bill. It's important that we do people's work. I told you: even when we wrote the Bill, I proposed to the Patriots and GERB to sign it. It would have been the best option for all of us to sign it together, because then there would be no doubt that it would pass. But fine, you've decided, so let's do it. I hope to be able to make these proposals between first and second readings, because they are meaningful, and as I told you, they are agreed with the Disabled Organization. They're a revised version of what you're importing. We just put in a little more effort and made it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any lines to Mr. Kutev's statement? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My line will be brief. It is obvious that there is an agreement on this bill. It's obvious the problem's in pain. Obviously, the BSP has some kind of great jealousy about why you're not the first. You can't be the first in everything. Today you're the first in a no-confidence vote, you're dealing with corruption, you're investigating fences, you're not solving people's problems. That's my line. Support the Bill, make your proposals and we will solve the country's problems jointly. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Is there any other line to Mr. Kutev's statement? There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u12	I was really wondering if I should do the backdrop because the whole thing seemed petty to me, but I still thought it was worth it. On whether we want to be first, for 120 years we have been last, but many times we have been first. So unlike you, we have a history in which we have been all sorts of times first, and we will be again. But that's not the back I wanted to make you. More importantly, in this case, I deliberately waited for you to submit the bill one day before I brought it in, not because we wanted to be first, but because I wanted it to pass. If the price of passing the bill is to be able to speak as importers, well, we'll accept it. But otherwise giving me morale and guiding what we should be more history we have than you and somehow we don't accept brains from you. I'm sorry for the personal attitude! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group will support this VID of the Law on Settlement of Citizens' Rights with Multi-annual Housing and Savings Deposits at first reading. Since it is not considered by the Budget and Finance Committee, we support it with reservations. The process is really moving slowly. It's a fact. A serious and reasoned debate is needed between first and second readings. Many questions need to be answered. It is important to request specific data from the Ministry of Finance, of course, and to make a detailed analysis of these data between first and second readings. This is a law that dates back 26 years. The first was since 1991, amended 14 times so far, last in 2013. In 2016 changes were adopted at first reading and were not considered at second reading due to the dissolution of the 43rd Assembly. The duration of compensation for citizens has been extended many times. It is obvious that all parliaments and governments in these years have been looking for the right option, the working version of the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits. Very often in my foster days people ask about it. People are asking about the flyers. I'm sure they're asking you, too. That is why it is very important that we pay the necessary attention between first and second readings to engage in a detailed understanding of all information and ways to be as useful to citizens now and in the long term. Of course, without putting finances and budget in unforeseen situations. The statistics submitted to the reasons of the importers over 315 thousand were initially deposits in the DSK at the time. On a list, over 155,000 citizens expect compensation. Approximately 65 percent of them are already compensated, about 55,000 citizens remain who have not yet received their compensation. On 30 November 2016, the deadline for submitting applications for these compensations expired. The proposed changes to speed up and ease the process of paying interest rates are definitely aimed at favouring citizens. Still, so to speak, so many years are standing and waiting for their turn. At the same time, the deadlines have already been extended five, six and more times and it must be assessed whether and how logical it is that these deadlines continue to be extended because we cannot continue to extend them to infinity. We must be very careful and very responsible about the opportunities offered for inheritance and use as a means of payment for taxes due. Any possibility should be explored regarding the effects and results of any changes made by us, the need and the reasons for these changes. That is why we support the College Bill at first reading, but, of course, between first and second readings we will do the necessary analyses, references, discussions to ensure for people and for the state the most appropriate thought-out and working option so that people can be compensated and benefit from their rights under equal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u16	Mrs. Angelova, first of all, I would like to start by thanking you for your support, as I understand it, which is important. I just want to draw attention to two things in relation to your position on the Bill. First of all, we've already made one petition. By the way, it must be interesting, I'll sum it up in the next two days and pass it on to all the MPs. In it there are now not counting how many, but we have probably 1000 signatures, if not more, by people from all over Bulgaria who are interested in the adoption of this Bill. So when the examination between first and second reading starts, I will provide the petition, because it is part of this action and I think it will be important. However, this is why I am doing your line and what I think is important is this § 3, where this Bill provides 20 million. I have bothered to do an accurate research and to ask the President of the Fund, who still exists and works, exactly what the Bill means and what its financial impact is. If the amount of 20 million recorded in this bill remains, and not 30 million recorded in our bill, this is not an arbitrary amount, if it is 30 million, it will actually end in 8 years. This is the amount of 7 to 8 years we will end this issue and all will be paid off. If there are 20 million left, it will last 12-13 years, and it is not clear which legislator will then decide to change the meaning in any way. But this is a conversation between first and second readings, when we're just going to have to change the amount to get back to what is the real deadline for paying the interest bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleague, I don't recall a parliament that hasn't dealt with this problem. Turn back other parliaments and you will see that this problem in every single Parliament is being looked at and really must be looked at, because after all people have a just cause, they have fair interests and they must be protected by all of us. Here we should by no means be divided into parties, because these 55 thousand people are not, but families, these 55 thousand families are from all parties, and some of them are not members or sympathetic to either of us. But the truth is, this problem has no color here at all. The point is, however, that in every parliament I listen to the same thing: "We must see, consider doing and so on. The arguments in the previous parliament were exactly the same. The truth is that with the 20 million that the government gives, it doesn't matter what it will be, whether on the left or on the right, these 20 million that are given each year are extremely insufficient and with this move of a turtle, which is currently being practiced, Anton Kutev correctly appreciated that it was 12-13 years, but I think there will be even more, these people will be waiting for their justice. So the question is very simple and clear. A greater resource needs to be found, and between first and second readings, I hope that all parties will unite around this issue, and finally by 2020 this issue will be resolved categorically. I am convinced that in each of you MPs who have admissions to your electoral districts, at least every third-quarter that comes to the reception day, raises you the question of these notorious flyers. That's what I'm convinced of, so I suggest we move on to the vote now. I think there is no dispute that really this bill should be adopted, not to argue, as they said, about the paternity of the Law, because all parties have an interest in solving this problem and between first and second reading really predicting a slightly larger problem, not a little larger but a larger resource, to be solved already at last, I will say it slangyrgonically, a bearded problem of over 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Do you want a hole, Mrs. Angelova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atanasov, thank you for the line. If you had listened carefully, you would have noticed that in my speech I said a lot of the things that you have also just said, namely that people by regions are interested in what happens to the flyers, asking us all the time. I mentioned that this law has been changed 14 times by every government and it has dealt with it. I repeat what I said in my speech. That is why we need to be responsible, to do the necessary analyses, the necessary estimates to make a reasoned decision and to make things happen as it is necessary for the benefit of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other speeches? I won't. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multi-annual Housing Savings Deposits, No 754-01-58, submitted on 20 September 2017. Vote 176 MPs: for 174, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is January 17, 2018, and as promised, at 11:00. The Bulgarian BSP will present the reasons for a vote of no confidence to the government of Boyko Borisov for failure in the anti-corruption policy. Dear colleagues, usually when we talk about corruption, we talk about corruption in spending money, and it is logical where money is spent, there are corruption practices there too. It seems to me that rarely, I couldn't even find a case where we talked about revenue corruption. By submitting the reasons, you will know that there is such a part of corruption in revenue. But I would like to tell you why and offer something to the National Assembly. On 20 December, we asked the Prosecutor General's Office to provide information about the inspection carried out by the State Agency of National Security and the Prosecutor's Office in the revenue agencies. On January 9th, 3 documents were received in the Secret Office of the Bulgarian Parliament. The report of the State Agency was presented by the State Security Agency, the Prosecutor's Office's report and a letter from Finance Minister Goranov. Unfortunately, honourable Members, the law prohibits and prohibits me from currently using people's names, names of companies and numbers of abuse and corruption. However, I can provide information that, as a result of these checks, interviews of witnesses and experts are concluded as a threat to the financial security of the country, and from there to national security by the Bulgarian law enforcement authorities, not by the opposition and not only because of the vote of mistrust. Worse! These findings with the instructions of the Prosecutor General stand on the Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's desk from August 2016. We are now 17 January 2018. Nothing has been done. The findings by January 4th are that the problem is the same. Unfortunately, I can't tell you this because the information is classified, but the problem is the same and continues to be a threat to the country's financial security. That is why we want the truth to become known about what corruption it is about, why the Prime Minister year and seven months has not taken measures, is it patronizing at the highest level in the country? And we propose to you, that is to say, tomorrow morning we demand an extraordinary Presidency Council with two demands: either the documents should be cleared, or we should hold a closed session of Parliament here in the Chamber, and we should look at these documents. I believe that they will help the MPs to draw the right conclusions and assess how to vote on the vote of distrust for corruption. Of course, the majority of you will probably support the government. Then at least we hope that what will be heard and seen in a closed session will make you think about what measures to take not only to deal with corruption, but to ensure financial security, but from there also the national So I ask you, Mr. Zablyanov, to tell Mrs. Karayancheva: we demand an extraordinary Presidency Council and a decision on how the people's representation to get acquainted with this information here indoors, or we all ask that these documents be declassified and that the Bulgarian people understand what this is about. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I will inform Mrs Karayancheva and she will make the appropriate decision. We move on to item two of the agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANK NON-CONSTITUTION. Please present the bill. Mr. Hamid, you have the floor. Hamid Hamid: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. It is another bill that our group is importing. These amendments have been dictated, colleagues, by the reports of the CCB Syndicates, as well as by the report by..... Alix Partners.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From these reports at the end of summer and early autumn they were published on the website of KTB, we have seen quite alarming facts that await adequate legislative change. There is a looting of the bank's secondary assets, which assets should be at the bankruptcy table. The scheme itself, the very way of looting, was generated in the very operation of the bank before its bankruptcy, by providing a series of unsecured loans to hollow companies that provide each other with the funds employed by the bank. It has come to the point that a fourth or fifth company in this chain buys an asset with the same money. How does the plundering of these assets take place? A third party, who had nothing to do with the bank and had no relationship with the bank, is buying out the bank because in this purchase-sale of shares and shares has no payment, the claims of the last hollow company to the company that owns the asset and makes these claims to the court, and announces the company that owns the asset in bankruptcy. Thus, this third firm, without paying a penny to anyone, receives an asset that is paid with the money of the depositors in the bank. In order to cross this vicious practice, October we submitted this Bill and only today he managed to get to the Chamber in accordance with Article. 53, para. Eight of our rules. We are offering three main things - first of all, a declaration of relatively invalid these transfers between the debtors of the bank - of shares and shares. Relative because the Law does not treat those transfers on which there is actual payment. Secondly, we declare the bank's Quaestors have made minor cancellations without having such a right to collateral. Hence comes the big problem: the Quaestors, without having legal right, without having any reason, because there are no funds received, have erased the collateral that serve as a future borrowing of creditors. Thirdly, we extend the limitation period, which is two years old, to become five years old. As long as the cases in the declaration of these transfers are invalid, the time limit is running and it becomes so that the syndics will not be able to submit those claims to the relevant assets. This briefly consists of our Bill. The aim is to untie their hands of the Syndicates and to have adequate legal instruments, effectively protect the mass of insolvency and thus recover the funds plundered by the CCB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Kirilov, will you present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs or anyone else from the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u25	No, Mrs. Alexandrova will present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u26	Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act No 754-01-75, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Hamid Bari Hamid on 26 October 2017. At its meeting held on 16 November 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 754-01-75, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Hamid Bari Hamid on 26 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund Mrs. Nevena Radeva General Legal Consult; by Corporate Commercial Bank AD, announced in bankruptcy, Mr. Angel Donov and Mrs. Kristi Marinova Syndicate, and Mr. Alexander Katsarov Officer; by the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company. The bill was presented by the National Representative Hamid Hamid, who indicated that it aims to ensure effective mechanisms for completing the bankruptcy of a bank declared in bankruptcy and to counteract schemes for the secondary plundering of assets purchased directly or indirectly with money of such origin. The proposed changes include: a prohibition on Quaestors, Temporary Syndicates and Syndicates to delete collateral established in favour of the bank in bankruptcy; the introduction of a relative invalidity of any transaction for transfer of a claim originating in a bank declared in bankruptcy where the claim has been transferred without a real counter-preservation and an increase in the period for bringing the cancellations of insolvency claims. The bill also provides for the declaration of nullity of any cancellations of collateral established during the period from the placing of the bank under special supervision until the start of the cashing of its property, as well as the invalidity of transactions involving the subject of the transfer of shares or shares carried out by debtors to a bank after it has been placed under special supervision. Ms. Radeva and Mr. Donov pointed out that the legislative proposals will help increase the mass of insolvency and will facilitate the work of the Syndicates in cashing out the property. The discussion was attended by the folk representatives Hamid Hamid, Yordan Tsonev, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Philip Popov, Todor Baychev and Yavor Bojankov. To Mr. Tsonev's questions, Mr. Donev replied that if legislative changes were adopted when the court announced that the lien was invalid against the creditors, it would be possible to focus execution on illegally deleted collateral established in favour of the bank. He pointed out that the start date of insolvency of the declared insolvency corporate commercial bank was 6 November 2014, with the draft proposal to declare themselves null and void to creditors the removals of collateral from the moment the bank was placed under special supervision, namely 20 June 2014. Mr. Donev also added that the Bill enables the syndicats of a bank declared bankrupt within six months of the entry into force of the Law to renew the entries of each deleted collateral. Mr. Kirilov and Mrs. Desislava Atanasova approved the objectives of the bill and said they would support it. Mr. Bojankov and Mr. Popov announced that from the Bulgarian BSP they will refrain from supporting the bill. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 7 votes for the National Assembly, with no objection, and 4 votes for abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 754-01-75, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Hamid Bari Hamid on 26 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate on the submitted bill. You have the floor, Members of the House, please. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the draft tabled by our parliamentary group is a continuation of our efforts to end the case with the least losses for the economy, for the budget and for the people. I would like to recall these efforts, as in the course of the debates, with the exception of objectively justified legal arguments, the legal technique here is unspecific and unusual in the generally accepted sense of that word, in the legal sense of that word, we have heard not so much criticism as a desire to abstain from voting or support from various politicians, MPs and parliamentary groups. I would like to make a chronology of the events since then, because they have a direct bearing on these efforts and on what the Bulgarian Parliament has failed to do in order to minimize the losses of this, called by many specialists, the theft of the century. A number of specialists, many organizations, companies investigating audit bodies, including a parliamentary committee of the Bulgarian Parliament found how exactly, what model KTB was operating. I'm not going to dwell on it, because that's already a well-known fact. However, I will focus on the chronology of the events and on our decisions of the then Bulgarian Parliament, and later, which, in my opinion and according to our parliamentary group, prevented or did not contribute enough for this case to develop as far as possible for the benefit of society, i.e. to minimize losses. After the announcement of the bank under special supervision, you know that the banking system experienced a very severe crisis, which even led to a debate about imposing a bank vacation to prevent a total collapse of the banking system, because the withdrawals were not from one or two, but from seven banks and were literally threatened on the first Monday after this crisis to be placed under special supervision as well. This did not end, although we came up with a reasonable solution then, the efforts we had to make. There were two ways to develop the KTB case. One of us under the then Bulgarian banking and trade legislation to wait for the deadlines to pass, the relevant assessments and to move towards the procedures described in the legislation. This time he was actually chosen. But there was another time. This was the path that followed the European banking and financial world after the 2007 crisis. Then Europe, faced with similar problems, of course, on another occasion and not because of abuse, introduced a resolution mechanism for banks with severe liquidity crisis and this mechanism was introduced into the legislation of most European countries. In Bulgaria this was not done, we did not have such a mechanism. This mechanism envisioned an increase in the capital of the relevant bank in bankruptcy, or with severe liquidity problems by the State, i.e. its holding, its recovery and its restructuring and possible privatisation. At the same time, in Portugal, a bank with much larger assets and a much larger financial hole, as the financiers say, had a similar problem, and also caused by untrue actions by shareholders. The bank was named "Espirito Santo" "St. Spirit," and the Portuguese state, which had adopted this banking legislation, reacted instantly and within a week increased its capital, notice, by 4.5 billion. lv. He saved the bank. Instantaneously there stopped withdrawals of deposits, the bank continued to operate on a healing plan and then it was privatized, sold to a large Chinese investment fund not only by recovering the amounts, but also with a profit for a fissure. This was proposed by the BNB in July 2014 with a quick amendment of the Bankruptcy Act, which the DPS parliamentary group in my person submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament. I would like to tell you that this would allow with the same 3.6 billion that the budget gave to return the guaranteed deposits of Bulgarian citizens, the bank to be capitalised and nothing of it to be withdrawn and nothing of it to be stolen. Today it might have been sold and the money recovered into a fissure. I must say that GERB in the face of the party president Mr. Borisov, who participated in the consultations, then told us and the then president that GERB would participate in the meeting and would support this bill if BSP and DPS participated in this meeting and he did not have to vote only with DPS, that is, GERB to vote only with DPS. BSP in the face of Mr. Mikov's then leadership declined. They said they didn't agree to extraordinary, fast legislation and so on. A real chance was missed to do something else: to save the guaranteed investments, to save the unwarranted investments and the tremor that the Bulgarian economy and the fisk experienced as a result of this, I will say again, the theft of the century. Then, after seeing that this cannot happen, we from the DPS have submitted a proposal for the deposits to be paid within, I think, about two weeks after the submission of the proposal, so that the bankruptcy procedure can speed up and not happen all those things that have happened which the Quaestors have done and which we are now finding helpless by lifting shoulders: Then, with the exception of the DPS, Bulgarian politicians, parties and parliamentary groups abstained and missed this chance. I am telling you all this not to point out the consistent position of the DPS on this matter, but to point out to you that abstinence and one mind on the case always has a price. The quick actions of the Bulgarian Parliament s legislative or those that we now have to take after, quite late, also have a price. I therefore call on you to adopt this bill. It has unusual legal instruments, but not illegal or non-constitutional, because it has practice for such legislation in the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us not continue this position, practice: Better to abstain, not to be accused of what you are and what you are, because the case is not over. CCB is something that will continue until all claims are recovered or those that can be reimbursed to the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the maximum amount of insolvency is completed and the bankruptcy itself closed. I therefore call on you to support the Bill, and if there are any additional proposals between first and second readings, we are open as importers to accept them, to protect them in the Bulgarian Parliament. I urge the ruling GERB not to delay the ball on this issue, because slowing also has a price, as I have already argued with examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? There are no lines. Please come in for further comments. Mr. Rumen Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Dear colleagues, we cannot in any way accept suggestions, as some colleagues have almost always tried to transfer the problem from the sick head to the healthy one. It is hardly BSP's responsibility that for years a certain government, I do not even say what, five times increases the assets of CCB, obliges the entire state sector to put the money in a specific bank, relatives, and friends to steal together, to rob the bank and in the end someone has to pay the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the decision to give the money to KTB and our onions ate, nor onion smelled, is not accepted. The colleague rightly said that the case of banks in Western Europe and this bank is different. What happened in KTB and is clear to everyone is a criminal case, not a change in market conditions that led to a chain of reactions in Western Europe and the United States. Is it known that the entire democratic community and experts condemned this, pay attention to some stealing in the banking system and the peoples of Europe, including Bulgaria, to pay?! What do you mean?! Is this the kind of signal we send, which is no longer accepted in Europe: "Steal in peace, steal your billions, give credit, file sweetly, the nations are here, they will pay when they need to?"! What do you mean?! How will we oblige Bulgarian taxpayers to cover obvious corruption schemes in KTB or in another bank?! Where were the Bulgarian state institutions?! Why did you re-elected the leadership of BNB, which sleeps while stealing the Bank and sleeping Bank supervision?! Why did you re-elected them?! Didn't they choose the Quaestors and the CCB syndics? Why did you re-elected them? I'm asking. Isn't the problem with the Syndicates and the Quaestors? Very please: we have prevented political engineering from, there are corruption schemes, but who is wrong and who is right - this must be established by the Bulgarian court. I would be very happy if the international judicial institutions also deal with this case, because in the end it should be clear that whoever steals in Bulgaria must be responsible. And who steals is clear to the entire Bulgarian people. Very please, there are enough witnesses in these negotiations not to try to blame those who are not wearing it right now. After all, guilt is proved by the justice system. If we have to vote, my colleagues and I will not vote again. With the money of the Bulgarian people we will not cover the robberies. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u32	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]] - What's the line? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Gechev, maybe I misinterpreted myself, I assume you misunderstand me. I don't blame BSP or anyone. My speech was directed at another one of us to be careful when we refrain and reflect on certain actions that have already occurred. I say and am ready to protect it not only in the Bulgarian Parliament, but also at the highest expert level, that the price paid by the Bulgarian people in the fissure would be the same, and the robbery would have been smaller after the robbery had already taken place. I don't blame you, and I didn't mean to. I said twice that it has been found that this is the robbery of the century made by the majority owner and his team. However, after this had happened and there was no way back, there were two roads, both of which cost 3.6 billion to the Bulgarian taxpayer both the first and the second. At first, however, we have withdrawn, guaranteed deposits because these 3.6 billion are given because the state has made this commitment and the money is gone. The second time they are not given, and they capitalise the Bank and it becomes 100% state ownership. As the practice in Europe shows, no one goes to withdraw money from this state bank where the state has poured that money. As the case of the "Espirito Santo" in Portugal showed, no one, the withdrawals stopped the minute. Then at the same price for a fissure we would have had better results. The money would not have been lost to municipalities and hospitals that could not be returned because they were above the guaranteed minimum. I note to you that if we had thought clearly then, at the same price, we would have had a better result. That is why I am now addressing you: to adopt these measures to minimize losses. One lev to return with this bill is worth the effort. Five levs to return, five times worth the effort. I say we return it if we accept it. This is the essence of my speech and of our bill. I don't blame anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The word for a line is Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Gechev, why did you have to involve us in this debate? That's what I'm wondering. Why do we have to repeat elementary facts and circumstances? I recall KTB was placed under special supervision in July 2014. At that time there was another parliament here, there was another ruling majority that ruled for over a year and a half. I would also ask what happened this year and a half? Where were the Bulgarian state institutions, the Bulgarian regulators, the Bulgarian control bodies? What did they do this year and a half? We were there, we were in opposition, and we warned about all these risks. As Mr. Tsonev rightly pointed out, we were even trying as opposition to exceed our role, to play a constructive role in order to make the right decision. I'm not going to make an analogy with the bank. There are legal ways. There were legal ways. There's been a debate. Then why didn't you take it? Why didn't you make the right decision? After the KTB case, the Oresharski government fell. But it cost a few months. After that, we had at least two months of elections. What happened in that weather? And why exactly are you blaming us for this? Why are you dragging us into this? We have always tried to be constructive in this problem because we know that it costs dearly, we know that it concerns property of many subjects. We knew and we continue to know that it could seriously affect trade turnover and that the consequences would be for many subjects. That is why we have always strived to behave responsibly, and we will continue to behave like this, because the first two such laws [[the President gives a signal that the time of the Member of the National Assembly has expired]] which aimed at such restrictive measures were tabled by Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Diana Yordanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For a line, Mr. Gurnevsky? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Gechev, it doesn't look like you from this tribune to do such lines, waving your finger. You, the economic minister in the government of Videnov, 1994, blocked not one, but the entire banking system of 17 banks and robbed the savings of all Bulgarian citizens! And you to stand on this stand and behave with this typical of your party insolent behavior, we cannot accept it. There must be some shame when you stand on this stand and talk about a banking system. No, Professor, you're a proven bank bankruptcy academician. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u38	Professor Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u39	Thank you. On the order of questioning. First, honourable Members, the commitment of the Bulgarian state to KTB of a billion and a half has been exhausted. He's back from the Guarantee Fund. As far as I understand, the money has been paid back to the budget, so the fisk has not lost anything directly, but the fisk, I agree, has lost indirectly because these huge losses of KTB directly or indirectly through companies, through citizens, purchasing power, have a negative impact. And that is why it is our outrage that: firstly, during this period the Bulgarian state authorities have not done their job, but the two main bodies on which the Bulgarian state is to rely were BNB under a Constitution in charge of banks; and DANS, who saw in the debates that their departments did not do their job. The investigation must determine whether it is intentional or not. But the money the state gave for KTB is returned. Fact. Secondly, the bank was bankrupt with the Oresharski government. It's about when the bank was robbed and how. To remind all colleagues: under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European countries, it is prohibited under the Constitution and the Law of Ministers to manage banks, to give loans, to increase assets or liabilities. It's forbidden! If a minister is involved in the work of the bank, whether 1996 or 2018, he is liable for criminal liability. I do not know how many times it should be explained that the Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for the banking system. Thirdly, I do not want to get into such a strange dispute with Mr. Gurnevski, but I will remind him: Mr. Gurnevski, for the second time I am explaining, you have re-elected the Minister of Finance Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u41	You went, convinced another qualified colleague to be head of BNB at the moment, who was Deputy Minister of Finance. Good morning! How many times do I have to tell you? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You chose them. Why? Because colleagues are capable and have nothing to do with the bankruptcy of banks that have been looted in 1991 are licensed 80 banks, robbed the Bulgarian people and similarly tried to wash their hands with a certain government, which is prohibited by law from interfering with banks. But after you re-elected them... I wish you once again a good day! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u42	Thank you, Professor Gechev, for the coat. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone else. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 754-01-75, submitted on 26 October 2017. They voted 143 MPs: 96, against 10, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. We move on to item three of the voted agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE NATIONAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR MULTIFAMILITY BUILDINGS. Please submit the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 35 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we are submitting a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. The reasons why we want this Commission to be established are as follows: The Court of Auditors' report on the audit of the 2016 State Budget Implementation Review announced a month ago found that several authorising officers in charge did not comply with the requirements of the Public Finance Act as regards the exceeding of the specified plan on the maximum amount of commitments for expenditure committed in 2016 and the maximum amount of the new expenditure obligations incurred in 2016 which violated budgetary discipline. The largest increase in capital expenditure in the year compared to the one adopted by the Law was carried out under the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. It is necessary precisely because of approved additional expenditure on the budget of MRDP for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings. The Court of Auditors' report also notes that the detailed plan is higher by 1 million. Ninety-six thousand. BGN 492. To the law. Indicates that according to the provision of art. 119, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act does not allow the launch of a programme or projects for which the expenditure is not provided for in the State Budget Act, but according to the decree on the adoption of the National Programme, the cost of grants for the following year should be provided for in the central budget for the year in question. According to the Court of Auditors, these requirements have not been met and the interest in the programme which arises over the year is not foreseen. During the debate held on this topic in the National Assembly on 9 June 2017, it became clear that: - the necessary financial resource for the implementation of the Programme is not secured; - the payment mechanism does not allow sufficient control over the quality and quantity of the construction works carried out according to the technical documentation adopted for each building; - there are no methodological guidelines of the Programme for eligibility of expenditure; - there are no control mechanisms to prevent the risk of financing activities outside the scope of the Programme; - the complaints of citizens living in already completed and put into service buildings are increasing. On 20 September 2017, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works submitted to the National Assembly information showing that no funds will be provided for the 2018 draft budget as it will practically cease to exist in this form. The document notes that a long-term policy and mechanisms are needed for its further continuation in the context of a comprehensive housing strategy. In essence, it is a recognition that so far the funds under the Programme have been spent without a plan and strategy. In addition to checking the ways and results of the implementation of the Programme, the Temporary Commission will also have to answer the question of what will be the fate of the 4754 contracts between municipalities and associations of floor owners, and how will the obvious injustice be overcome for some Bulgarian citizens the activities under the Programme be completely free and for others it will be necessary to participate with their own funds. Lack of control and spending without previously clear criteria have led to poor construction and limited competition. In such a highly corrupt environment, nearly 2 billion contracts were concluded. lv. The spending of this huge resource fully justifies the creation of a special committee to examine all the facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. It is because of these motives that we propose the following Project! DECISION establishing a Time Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Housing The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances relating to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. 2. The Commission shall be aware of all the facts and circumstances concerning the criteria adopted and the objectives of the Programme met; how to determine indicative prices for the implementation of individual construction activities and their subsequent adjustments; the funds spent and the effect of the saved energy costs; and the future development of the Programme. 3. The Commission shall consist of 10 Members of 4. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 5. The Commission shall be elected for a period of two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. You have the floor for speeches on the submitted draft decision, honourable Members, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Dora Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am also speaking as an importer of the Decision Project and in support of the reasons with several main arguments. As early as 2015, at the start of the Programme, we on the left asked for the Programme to be both national and solidarity. We very clearly proposed in a debate here in the Parliament road map, the Project for a decision to be scope and analyzed the country's housing fund, respectively to have the availability of financial resources, whether with the budget, whether with loans, whether with other financial instruments, whether with the participation of the owners. You were very brave then, colleagues from GERB, very ambitious that there are two billion. You see, free of charge, there will be opportunities to do something great. Yeah, they didn't do bad things, but partially, twisted, unsolidarized, with one part of the building fund that was renovated, or let's say packed. There are different comments from Bulgarian citizens. The latest report, which the Minister of Regional Development brings to the President of Parliament, says: "We need a national vision for housing policy, a road map and a clear mission to see what we will do with the building fund, and we need a debate in Parliament. ".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why would there be a committee of inquiry with a lot of arguments? Firstly, there is a need to analyse what happened in the country as economic behaviour, that several times the forecast prices have decreased. Whether the estimated prices, which were fixed over 300 BGN "between 200 and 100 BGN, and I was listening to a prominent member of your parliament, who in the last days is reported in the media that with 87 BGN could be sanitized a residential block. I mean, what happened? Who set these parameters? Why didn't the people who made the auctions keep the public resources? Or it comes that if the parliament has set aside two billion, that is, you have decided to set them aside for this policy. If we look at the statistics by 2019, we will stay with these 2022 blocs according to data from the debate of the blitzcontrol with Minister Nankov on 7 December in the Committee on Regional Policy, then if parliament decides there will be something else. The more dangerous in this solidarity model why are we saying that solidarity is the return model? Because these are public resources and all Bulgarian citizens pay them. And it's not a solidarity model based on the impact of our country's territory. Something that we want to warn Bulgarian citizens about separately 2500 housing blocks will be waiting. You will turn around, but we, as a left, as people of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, will warn these citizens that after 2019, if Parliament decides to have a National strategy for housing policy with a road map, with a vision, with a financial resource, these 2500 housing blocks that are now waiting, outside those 2022, which are a process of execution and have concluded contracts, will be implemented. There is an infinitely incorrect attitude. Incorrectly in terms of funding, the financing of impact sites. And it is worth the committee of inquiry to analyse: Why would this public resource of two billion be made 2022 buildings and not 3,000 buildings? Why were these distortions of finances, these forecast prices, who gave them these methodologies, who made them? And separately, you know very well that the Ministry has an Inspectorate that analyzes and tracks, and you want to separate the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance and everything to be transferred to the mayors. Yes, perhaps the mayors will also look at how these orders have been made, but look at the Inspectorate, who needs to analyze how we protect the public resources, what is said in this period of time. Only the caretaker government said something. Further, the Minister submitted a report, but the report was sufficiently leaky. There are figures in the report on buildings, there are impact figures, and there are common figures. In the report there is not what we are called as MPs to protect the public resources of Bulgarian citizens to be as effective as possible, to have opportunities for justice in the Bulgarian society for the use of this public resource, and we on the left will want to have a solidarity model that currently does not. Sometimes, when there is a problem, in the Rhodopes it is said: We find with in the mental narrowness. What will be done next with the Sanitation Program? Because I think that by 2019 there will be a kicking of the ball: Yes, we are doing something and you will report performance, there will be a hit on a couple of performers, it is poor, there will be fines here and there, but honourable Members, this is a huge public resource, these are expectations of Bulgarian citizens and so far the Programme shows that there is no effective solidarity model for using huge public resources. Therefore, I call on you: support the committee of inquiry so that we can at least wash the face of the Bulgarian Parliament, engaged in these decisions at least partially. Thank you. [[Applause from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for lines to the statement............................................................................................. There are no lines. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for your next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u47	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me the floor. My fellow Members, I would like to offer you a different reasoning beyond that I am part of the importers of such an inquiry committee, and I will tell you what it is. Using the fact that you and I have gone through several preliminary, special committees of inquiry, using the fact that we have obtained good results, ultimately Parliament has come to the heart of several questions for both the NDK and the waters of Haskovo and with regard to the tenders with the planes. Practice shows and I can say that I feel rather enthusiastic about the opportunity to set up with your support such a committee. I will offer you the following reasoning: this committee of inquiry uses the same people who, to say the conditionally, are opponents of this process....although in the classical sense there are none, and those who protect the sanitization to continue in the medium term. The results, the data, the conditions, the practices, if we analyze them in this committee of inquiry, believe me, the results will be equally useful for both critics and those who want the Commission to continue. I'll tell you why: there are many underwater stones created where from not looking, where from tolerance of corrupt practices and mechanisms, where from poor performance, but all the life path and cycle of this funding, there are such underwater and obscure stones on this project. Dear colleagues, no one can answer the question, first: where, when, how, and why were the first quite high nearly three or four times the value needed to carry out the activity prices that were then two or three times reduced? This is how we got into a case in which under the National Program for Sanitation and under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" which financed the same measures, at the same time, in the same municipality, the same squares to be made for 290 BGN without VAT under the National Program and under the Operational Programme to be implemented at 120 BGN. That's the first question. The second question is: how did we spend a public resource over a billion at high prices? On two occasions after that the prices are currently 90 BGN without VAT, how are these low prices, which we have reached the third time.... were they not a year earlier effective, applicable and sufficient to implement the same measures? Third, what in one year rose four times.. materials, labour, costs, design, implementation, supervision? [[Noise and lines.]] These are questions to which the sooner we answer through this committee, the more we will not pour water into the mill of critics of this Programme or supporters, but we will give an objective answer on how to proceed with the analysis of the National Assembly, because it seems to me that those willing to take advantage of these measures are more than those who would not want. No fifth place, I will not hide the fact that ultimately the first high prices are of such a value that they approach, colleagues, to the value of the rough construction of new construction, provided that almost nowhere in the energy renovation is the part of the structural reinforcement. These are all occasions in the preliminary and factual part that we would like to analyse together with you. I will not hide that there are also a lot of signals that I do not want to become subject to public knowledge about the very mechanism for conducting public procurements.. the funding through the district governments and through the Bulgarian Development Bank; the delay or acceleration of the money for which there are signals. We want to see if they are not bound by some kind of political geography, as the resources are public, as the funds are of all taxpayers right and good is I am talking about the National Program and not about the Operational Program, although in a broader European sense, European money is also Bulgarian, and vice versa, we would like to not allow for elements of political geography, and this to be an equal foot for all Bulgarian citizens. I don't want to bore you any more, I think you are familiar with the municipalities in which you work both publicly and nationally, regardless of what kind of expertise each of us has with these problems. Rather, I would like to wish to show good will in Parliament that this will also be another committee that will give an objective answer as to how we move forward. One thing is clear: that we cannot move forward, because the responsibility for public resources is, in my opinion, extremely high. I thank you in advance and hope for your support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am doing the following procedure: I propose that we divide the votes. Firstly, the vote which concerns the creation of the Commission itself. If such a committee is adopted, which I believe is extremely important and this is also in line with the public interest, then we should vote separately and the MPs who will participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. A procedural proposal has been made for a split vote on the draft decision establishing the Commission in general and then for its composition. I put the motion to a vote. Vote 160 MPs: 74, against 69, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Nenkov, you wanted the floor of speech, didn't you? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u51	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u52	My fellow Members is the mistake, Mr. Nenkov said a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, in the end, I would probably support the creation of the Commission in another situation, but it is a fact that the renovation programme for multi-family residential buildings is a topic that is being debated for more than a year now. It was the subject of many parliamentary questions, fixed meetings, concrete steps and measures that the Ministry of Regional Development had to take, a report by the Court of Auditors, you have already cited some data from it. In the end, I think that the topic and rather the creation of such a committee would not lead to something productive, rather I find a sense of some political effect and what Mr. Kostadinov said just now, almost that it would satisfy the opponents or supporters of this Programme, I think it is absolutely unfounded and I do not think that we will reach such a catharsis. I understand why you didn't like this program, and you won't like it, and that's because in the end, it first, likes people, and regardless of everything maybe, of course, has its minuses, there's something to be desired by the program itself. The Ministry itself, as you can see, in charge of housing policy, has its specific remarks to both quality and performance and control, which is a process. In whatever area this thing is, these two factors are not some final value, this is a process in which each institution should strive to improve it.. and control of construction and the very implementation of the construction and installation activities. I understand why you don't like this program and are always looking for such an element to corrupt it. That's first, like I said before, because people like her and because she's useful to people. Secondly, not because I or someone else has decided, but because people voted precisely the mayors of municipalities, the district cities, most of them being mayors of GERB, but this is decided by the citizens in elections, we do not decide it here in this Chamber. I apologize, but since we are still in the creation of this Programme to see into the genies why it is done in this way, I will tell you honestly one and a half years do you, two years later you do not believe that the program can be so different made than it is now. And I'll tell you why I'm also a supporter of the solidarity model of people empathizing with public resources. As far as my building is concerned, if I want to finance it, to upgrade it, I want it to be energy efficient, then certainly the logic is, in principle, that people should empathize with this thing. Mrs. Iankova, you know very well that all the programmes that have so far had one or another European funding have ultimately not given their result or not at least this result that we have been expecting or looking for, and it is a mass result. Massov, because all these buildings we are talking about, firstly, there are people with lower opportunities living in them, they would not have had the opportunity to allocate any resources to make their buildings energy efficient, which is a prerequisite for the fact that the previous programmes did not really give their result where there was co-financing of these projects. Secondly, because indeed perhaps, unfortunately, citizens do not always appreciate the risk to their health, because some of these buildings are already starting to go out of operation and out of use. I am very interested, we have no security in this room, future government or MPs, or future DNCC or RDNC chiefs to go for example to some kind of living building full of people who don't have such opportunities, and to tell them and prescribe not to inhabit this building anymore. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, that's right, they'll be stoned out. Because of this, colleagues, when we started doing this Programme and when we decided to do it this way, with free funding, so that it could acquire... You remember what she had against this Programme, I do not want to quote the names of colleagues and political parties who did it.... how we will almost take people's apartments as well. These scared people at the beginning had their effect, but when people began to see what they really get against this public resource, against the fact that their home is really becoming more valuable, more energy-saving, more cozy, property prices are jumping, then they start to realize the benefits of this Programme, and because of that now, we should rather think about how to continue the Programme, because, yes, by 2019 there is a resource available, these 2022 buildings will be completed, but there are still so much, even more 4,000 buildings waiting to be financed. We may be asking the original tone, and this is my understanding in which they are to be financed free of charge, but in time perhaps we should look for the solidarity model from the point of view of ownership, because it is still a responsibility. It is not only a benefit, but it is also a responsibility for everyone to maintain it. People have already seen the effect of saving electricity or heat costs at nearly 40-50% and somewhere more. So instead of seeking political advantage, the program is even late. In my opinion, we should be looking for ways together to continue it, not to look for the calf. I understand you don't like it for the reasons I told you, but it's good for the citizens. We've talked about this enough already. Again, I recall that the Ministry itself, literally 10 days ago, adopted even more stringent measures for contractors, for contracting entities, respectively, for mayors who have to carry out monthly control of construction works, which means that the Ministry itself is also looking to improve the Programme, and I do not think that a committee would contribute to something more essential, as there is no need to do such a commission, rather it will enter into a political opposition whether or not there should be such a programme. Let us also allow the Ministry of Regional Development, which is responsible for this policy to finish things off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Is there a line to the statement? Honourable MPs of the National Assembly, the balcony is attended by listeners and lecturers from the Master's degree. [[Applause.]] Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, you made a statement in support of the Programme. The request for this Commission is not at all against the Programme and you did not need to talk for so long to prove to us how useful the Programme is and to try to suggest from the platform that BSP is almost against the Programme. We have always stated that we are for the Programme, but we are against what is obtained as a result of the Programme and the principles with which you apply in this Programme, so please do not suggest that people remain under the impression that the BSP is against the Programme. You have tried several times to mention that the program is aimed at people with smaller opportunities. How do you define these people with smaller options, and the criteria under the Programme do not say anything about such things at all................................... If you put in any other criteria when choosing residential buildings for renovations, tell us to know it too. It is a question of the fact that in society there is a serious impression of very serious violations and if, just looking at the CCB and calling it the plunder of the century, I am not quite sure that from a position of time we will not announce that the sanitization was also the plunder of the century. Do not doubt that the Programme should continue, but not in this way, and such a committee that we want to set up with MPs and investigate, analyse the activities under the Programme and principles, and how it is implemented will lead to a better implementation in the future of the Programme. You say the Ministry of Regional Development is looking for ways to improve the Programme. I think one such commission will benefit only what the Ministry wants to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other lines to the statement? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I have listened carefully to your speech and I wonder if you live in some parallel world? After all, the National Assembly is not a rural congregation to sell cotton candy. The questions to which this Commission must answer, both before the MPs and before the Bulgarian society, are clear and clear: First of all, why, with over 2 billion already spent funds, have only been renovated 700 buildings? Two thousand and five hundred signed contracts when will they finish, God knows? You've put a dividing line in our society. Some of the people are sitting around waiting to be renovated the buildings that signed contracts, the others are wondering why they don't have contracts and when they're going to be sanitized. Not to mention the people in the villages who are asking, why don't my house get sanitized? Why aren't they sanitizing the neighbor's block? Why don't they sanitize my block? You have created dividing lines and precisely one such commission, Mr. Nenkov, despite the color you have given of the program "Sanning" which we are not opposed to, must give answers to whether it will continue, with what funds it will continue, what funds have been spent because they have been spent after an audit of the Court of Auditors, contrary to the Public Finance Act. Here are these questions we want to get an answer, not to receive constantly some pink balloons and to explain to us how good it is. Okay, one block sits beautifully, and the other next to it sits apart. Why? Because one of them was half an hour late. You understand that this is not going to happen and create some satisfaction among the Bulgarian society. That's not gonna happen. And all those Bulgarian citizens who have been lied to and were given onions to suck sweetly and be good to them should be answered eventually will their dwellings be sanitized, or will they not be sanitized? That's why we want this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u58	Thanks for the lines, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other lines? Mrs. Yankova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, in your speech you were close to all our arguments regarding the solidarity model and the public resource. There is an issue on which I would like to quote you from the blitzcontrol in our committee, Minister Nankov, what he says: "Dear Mrs Yankova, I could even draw an even worse picture. There are not a thousand blocks that will wait for applications but are 2500 and beyond the scope of these 2022 blocks there are more than 2500 blocks with contracts concluded between municipal administrations and district administrations or lodged, as they say, tickets in the Bulgarian Development Bank. We have said that the first at the time will be the first in law, that is, the first to this point will be 2020 blocks for two billion. And there's no way 2 billion. lv. not be of interest to the left how they are spent fair or unfair. Why 2022 blocks and not 3000 blocks? There's no way! The model is not solidarity. You admitted it. I would like to ask you in the duplicate that you will do, what GERB says to these people from these 2500 housing blocks, because I can further read the whole speech of the minister. This is the result, but the blocks are 18 700 in Bulgaria, 49% of the Bulgarian population lives in such residential blocks. With this programme with these two billion only 17% of Bulgarian citizens received financial resources, but it is not free. This financial resource of the solidarity model is returned to all Bulgarian citizens. This is why it is not possible for us, as people, to disagree with what you think, and to draw skeletons, your partners, who were much more on our side in the previous debate and 2015 talked about the concerns about taking the blocks. And the huge debate on the resignation of the cabinet Borisov 2 came again from your partners louder as they can announce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will try to answer as clearly as possible on the building lines, and for my colleague Ivan Ivanov to go and read whether these two billion were actually spent or not and come here when he prepared himself and feel confident in the topic. I will turn to Mrs. Yankova, Mrs. Yankova, if in principle we can spend a billion each year, I am with two hands for. The truth, after all, because these two billion, I remind my colleague Ivanov, because he said just now something that is not true, these two billion have not been spent de facto. There has been started payment for some of the activities that are currently being carried out around 600 blocks. I'm being rude. There's 400 completed. There are a thousand more to be made, and these two billion will go exactly to pay these another thousand blocks. If every year the budget could set aside a billion, I would be extremely pleased and happy, and I think we should all be so, but the truth is that the budget does not have such opportunities as to generate such a resource at all times. Every government, every National Assembly, every budget has its own priorities. We can't bet 20 priorities every time, we can bet one, two, three, four priorities. This year, how many areas of the budget sectors have the resources for their funding been increased? There is no way we can now vote another billion, for example, for this Programme. And you know, colleagues from BSP, what's the worst? Because, well, I agree, you have arguments. I never said in my speech that this Programme is perfect, there are no mistakes, there are no signals, there are no, if you will, certain doubts about corruption, doubts about poor repair. That's probably true, but it's not our job to solve this thing. It has control bodies and needs to strengthen the efficiency of construction control, the quality of implementation, so I said that in my speech quite objectively and quite well-intentionedly. I wasn't looking for anything to say, "Oh, we're great!" But worst of all, fellow Members, is what you don't answer the question. And not to go back in history, because you've experienced some kind of catharsis of this before. You were against the program, and then you wanted to do the program not through the local authorities, not through the mayors, to centralize public procurement. I have argued with you even on this subject, so you too have experienced some kind of catharsis on the subject itself, but you do not answer the question: "Okay, if it is not this Programme, what are we doing? " What are we doing with these multi-family residential buildings? And Mr. Gokov, now I'm sorry, but in these buildings most people who live have lower opportunities. Why have they not taken advantage of the existing programmes where they allow co-financing to do so? Because they didn't have that resource because of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Dear MPs, guests of the National Assembly today are members of the Friendship Group with Bulgaria in the parliament of Azerbaijan. The delegation was led by Mr. Rauf Aliev, Chairman of the Group. Let's congratulate them and Ambassador Gurbanova. [[People's representatives rise up and applaud.]] We continue our sitting with speeches. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am pleased with the tone because several committees have been challenged and set up on the occasion of requests from the BSP to strain tensions, but obviously here the European Presidency says its word and we are already working and living at the call not to expose ourselves to foreigners. We need to tell each other a few things and truths. This is a domestic problem in the order of those for which many politicization should not be moisture. No one is saying, but the reason for this sanitization is that these blocks were in a miserable position. We are talking about millions of Bulgarians who live in them, and according to the example of the GDR, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, in order to continue the habitat of residents in these blocks, began in Bulgaria sanitization, albeit late, because you imagine all these, almost in a miserable state, some even crumbling blocks, if this renovation had not been taken, would have put pressure on the property market. People had to build new homes. The problem is this one mostly, and it's logical. Here I am explaining something that causes some outrage about me. Why should some people spend public funds in order to get better housing and sanitize them, and for homes, houses in villages, in cities, not to do this? Let's not put too much into the subject and see, undo the problem, be wise. There's no point in continuing to dig deeper, deepening. There can only be unnecessary scandals, because there is room for control; yes, there are blocks that are emblematic; places where abuse is made, but there are hundreds of objects, even thousands. It makes sense that somewhere someone screwed up a monitoring body controlling her, the performers themselves, so it's in the technological order of things. But I also ask this question: here is the control not only of the government, not only of the National Assembly, of the governors, of the opposition, here is the control of the citizens. No one raises the question: those who benefit from this sanitization, what control do they have? I'd say none! Because this is the job of the National Assembly to make the big, big, to release the hundreds of millions, and billions even every year, and this is our task mostly. You seem to be here with an indicting prosecutorial bias from the BSP bringing us into the obligation to stand on each subject and check the input materials, their quality, their quantity, to calculate the costs of each of the specific, May and in the Commission I see there is such a deviation and such an attempt to check everything to the smallest detail. That's impossible. It's also the control of society. There are, if you will, some NGOs, some public organizations. None of them said anything. On other topics they are generously pronounced, here nothing. From time to time, someone points to a particular object, sends a certain media, shoots, on the screens we see scary abuses, and that's all. This was not the topic for discussion in the National Assembly.. for the creation of a special committee, but it comes with a solution, we vote for.................................... and move towards more serious topics and issues. Not with this decision, with the opposite or against it, we will solve this problem. He's not that heavy, he's not that big, so let's calm down and be wise!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches? There aren't any. We are going to vote on the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Buildings, No 754-02-106, submitted on 23 November 2017. Please vote. Vote 164 MPs: 70 against 80 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BLOOD, CROSSING AND CROSSING. It is No 754-01-73, imported on 19 October 2017. I ask for the report from the Committee on Health. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfused, No 754-01-73, submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 October 2017 At its regular meeting on 14 December 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Donating and Blood Transfused, No 754-01-73, submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs on 19 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Prof. Dr. Fanny Martinova, Director of the National Centre of Transfigurational Hematology, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The draft and its reasons were presented by one of the importers. Dr. Georgi Mihailov. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the proposed amendments and additions aim at removing the limit of the amount of blood diagnosed and processed free of charge necessary for the treatment of health-insured persons with haematological diseases hospitalized in a clinical haematological structure, which performs procedures for the preparation and/or execution of halogenated and/or autologous transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells. Professor Mihaylov pointed out that blood and blood transfusions are an essential element in the treatment of patients with haematological diseases who are about to receive or have received an halogenated or autologous transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells. In these patients, the need for transfusions of blood components may last for up to 6 months after transplantation, which represents a huge financial cost for the treatment facilities that perform autologous and/or endogenous transplantation procedures for haematopoietic stem cell transplants. The timely and qualitative treatment of patients with haematological diseases who are about to receive, or have received, an allergenic or autologous transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells requires that clinics or clinical haematological compartments supply and transfer large amounts of blood and blood products daily. In the light of this fact, the confirmed by the order of art. 26 of the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion (CCN) free amounts of blood and blood components are extremely insufficient to satisfy the medical needs of multi-profile and specialised hospitals in the country where clinics or clinical haematological wards are revealed for the preparation and/or transplantation of haematopoietic stem cell cells. This, in turn, places the medical establishments in whose structure there is a clinic or ward of clinical haematology in an extremely adverse situation, as they are obliged to provide free treatment to health-insured patients with haematological diseases, an integral part of which is frequent blood transfusions and blood products. As a result, these hospitals are forced to purchase at their own expense significant amounts of blood and blood components from the transfusion centres without being able to recover their costs. The proposed regulatory changes will allow for the provision of the activities of medical establishments with exposed haematological clinics or units for the preparation and/or the conduct of allergenic and/or autologous transplants of haematopoietic stem cells by free provision for those structures of the required amount of blood and blood products which are a mandatory element of therapy for the treatment of patients with haematological diseases who are about to receive or receive such transplantation. The Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov stressed that the Ministry of Health appreciates the efforts of the importers to propose a solution to ensure the activity of endogenous and autologous transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells in terms of the quantities of blood and blood components required for each patient. However, the proposed changes contradict the principle laid down in the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion, according to which the type and quantities of blood and blood components to satisfy the needs of medical establishments and to produce medicinal products derived from plasma are subject to planning. He clarified that the activities of these types of transplantation, as well as the provision of blood and blood components are the commitment of the state and are financed by state budget funds. In conclusion, Dr. Penkov noted that the quantities of blood and blood components for carrying out medical activities in relation to patients of hospital institutions should be provided from now on through the system of planning and control under the current provisions of the Law on Blood, Blood donation and blood transfusions. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that first of all should examine the reasons why the designated by the order of art. 26 of the CCC limits for free amounts of blood are insufficient, the extent to which these problems relate to the quality and precision of planning and distribution of these limits in hospitals, and the extent to which the principle of rational use of blood and blood components is at issue when determining them. At the same time, the preliminary impact assessment attached to the Bill indicates that the adoption of the proposal is related to the need to provide an additional resource of around 1,8 million. lv. It should be borne in mind that the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 on the budget of the Ministry of Health does not provide for the provision of the proposed regulatory changes. Due to the arguments put forward, the Ministry of Finance does not support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the lack of mechanisms for control over the activities of medical establishments for which blood and blood components are fully free of charge and how to avoid the creation of inequalities between hospital care facilities where clinics or clinical haematological wards are found compared to those in which there are no such structures. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion, No 754-01-73, submitted by Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs on 19 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u66	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Allow me to give the floor for the opinion of the importer of Prof. Georgi Mihailov. Here you go, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a change and supplement to the Law on Blood, Blood Transfusion and Blood Products is dictated by the impressions that have been imposed since the opening of the transplant program in the Republic of Bulgaria, it already has more than 20 years of history, and by the notions that are based on several concrete facts. The first fact, which is to be noted, and I ask the honourable Members from the Chamber to accept it as such, is that the grant of the Translation Program, the financial compensation of this programme due to the implementation of the Law on Transplants and the Regulation on the payment of these transplants in the Republic of Bulgaria, is extremely inadequate, it amounts to an allogenic transplant of about 80 thousand. lv. and autologous transplants at about 40,000. lv. For reference, I can tell you as a specialist in this area that the price of an endogenous transplantation in Central and Western European countries varies between 250 and 350 thousand. Euros. Against the background of this insufficient funding, the medical institutions that have committed themselves to carrying out this, I allow myself to say it -- complicated, long-term, multi-component as participants in it and too complicated as a program, it lasts months, sometimes more than a year, it has nothing to do with organ transplant technology. These hospitals, amongst other things, are under heavy pressure. We have done very serious calculations with colleagues from Plovdiv and Varna. These are the three centers that implement such interventions, which practically burden the medical institutions, such as what I managed until nine months ago, with more than 500 thousand. lv. A year and the entire amount as a load exceeds one million. The second component of our arguments is that in all other areas of clinical medicine, they are very intense, with a great risk to patients, fortunately it does not happen often, that blood products are a major component of therapy, whereas in those patients we prepare or in whom we have performed this type of high-tech intervention, this is a major reper of therapy, a major part of therapy that is comparable to all the other essential elements such as antitumor therapy and anti-infectious agents that we use to treat complications in these very severe interventions that sharply alter the status of our patients. In this sense, I as a hematologist and as a transplantist for years have tried to instill this type of high-tech interventions in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and, by the way, the disclosure of this network of transplant units in Bulgaria has allowed the state to be saved very serious funds, as Bulgarian citizens should otherwise be taken out of the country's territory for similar technological and high-tech interventions. In this sense, it is our proposal. Listening carefully to Dr. Daritkova's arguments of the Ministry of Finance, which undoubtedly have no particular impressions in this area, this is not about inequality, because the rest of the health institutions in the country are very rarely, fortunately, using blood products, these are maternity wards, these are surgical wards, but in them this use is sporadic. In this sense, we find it quite right that our proposal, even if it is quite late in time, is to ease the activity of these medical institutions. I ask that everyone in this House have had a lot of talks with the different parliamentary groups about such a change in the Law to appreciate our efforts and support our proposals. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u68	Thank you, dear Professor. Mikhailov. My fellow Members, I propose that we take a 30-minute break and then continue with the debates and voting on the proposed draft. Dear MPs, at 11.30 am in the northern lobby will be opened the photo exhibition "The Spirit of Surva." The exhibition presents the specific color and fascinating beauty of the festival and is organized by the Municipality of Pernik. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u69	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with the debates on the bill. We have heard the report of the Committee on Health and the opinion of the importer. We continue with the review of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood donation and blood transfusions submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs. Are there any speeches? Come in for a speech, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you, Professor. Mihailov, who put this complex and severe problem, as is the issue of blood and blood products. Perhaps many Members of the National Assembly do not know that each year the departments and centres of transfusion haematology conclude contracts with hospitals by setting an annual limit that is indicative. It certainly serves most of them so that they can plan their expenses well rather than hospitals. Why am I saying this? Because blood donation is free, but it's free with regard to blood donors. However, both the relatives of the patients and the doctors themselves who perform transfusions are affected. What do I mean? Many of you must have faced these difficulties and now is the time to say it in the Chamber. The patient's relatives should seek blood donors, and they should be suitable blood donors, as many of them do not become? there are requirements for age, illness and so on. Many times the question is asked to be of the same blood type. Difficulties come from blood groups that are extremely rare, on the other hand, and financial. The relatives of the patients had to pay cash within market prices of 150 BGN. in the countryside up to 350 leva. in the capital of every blood donor. And if they can afford it, it's another matter. Doctors who perform blood transfusions are also affected. True, thanks to these contracts, doctors can be confident that both in planning and in urgent circumstances they can receive the necessary amount of blood from transfusions or from centers. But what happens next? The relatives must restore this blood, and at the end of the month the respective central wards invoice the quantities of blood to the hospitals and they must be paid. I have to tell you, the prices are very low. Without being a financier, I think they should be reviewed again because they do not reflect the real cost of blood transfusions, blood products and blood itself. What about the doctors who work with stem cells? Their situation is a little more difficult and Professor. Mihailov is right because they have to start the treatment and it is for diseases that need at least three, four, five times a year to perform blood transfusions, and you see what the consequences of this are. Moreover, it is about high-tech medicine, which, if we want to do it, we need to have the peace, and the doctors have the tranquility that they can do their job from start to finish. Treatment with blood and blood products is a type of treatment, especially when it comes to stem cell treatment. I think the question is both financial and legal and moral. I regret that this, as a proposal and as a project, did not pass through the Health Committee, everyone had their reasons not to vote or vote for............................................................................................ Patients and doctors working with stem cells need help. Shall we give it to them? When? How do we give it to them? I think that the issue after today's vote in this House will remain open and perhaps it will be put back on the table in a year's time when other things will happen. However, I hope that sooner or later doctors will be able to work peacefully.. all doctors in Bulgaria who perform blood transfusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u71	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines to her statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! The Law proposes removing the limit for free quantity of diagnosed and processed blood and blood ingredients. I would like to draw attention to: diagnosed and processed blood and blood components, not, as has been said, to give a lot of blood, but which is quality and which can be used is one hand-held blood and blood components for the needs of hospitals for active treatment, in whose structures there are clinics or wards of clinical haematology for the preparation or execution of an endogenous or autologous transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells. Dear colleagues, the Law on blood, blood donation and blood transfusions regulates the principles of voluntary and free of charge in the donation of blood and blood components. The difficulties of the state transfusion system in providing blood from grant blood donors are known. The Law lays down the principle that the type and quantities of blood and blood ingredients to meet the needs of medical institutions are subject to planning. I agree that planning in medicine is extremely difficult. This is not a constant that can be said to be from There are patients of different nature, both urgent and planned, and all kinds. Adopting the proposal made by BSP colleagues to provide without restrictions the amount of blood and blood components of hospitals with haematological structures will be carried out at the expense of other hospitals or other patients. Respectfully, an inequality has been created here, but in my opinion, it has also been said between the separate wards and the structures of a hospital, at the same time and the inequality between patients. I agree that blood and blood components are the main thing in the haematology, but agree, as has been said, that there are conditions in which it is really enjoyable that less blood transfusions are required. Such conditions cannot be ignored. Colleagues who know what this is about, for example, when bleeding from the esophagus, salvation is Blackmore's probe and blood transfusion. There's no other option! And if at this point this blood is already consumed by a certain haematological compartment because it's limitless, the patient just dies and there's no going back. I don't need to mention both laborers and car crashes and a number of things that are also needed for. I agree that there is a shortage. I agree there must be more. However, the shortage is everywhere, it is to a different extent and is not only in the field of health. If there's enough for everyone who wants it, it's the best option. But since there isn't anyone asking for their area of duty-free use of a certain kind of resource, somehow it's not like that. I want to get back to difficult planning. I think I have experience as a head of the hospital, and I have been in charge of the hospital for five years, and I think that if a supervisor does an adequate analysis and adequate planning to the needs of the unit he is managing, there is an option to deal with and use the opportunity given to him. Many spheres are also underfunded, not only in health care, but also others. It is not right to protect certain interests in order to ensure the comfort of the work of certain departments, whether it be a clinic, a ward, a centre or otherwise, at the expense of other bodies. If we do, I say, again, with unlimited amounts, yes, but that is obviously not the case, and that is why we have a deficit. Finally, I would like to point out a sample of the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that this additional provision is linked to a million and eight, almost two million, which are from the state budget. The state budget has already been voted on, so a slightly late request is received. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u73	Thank you, Dr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? First line.. People's representative Georgi Mihaylov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I wish this discussion would end and from now on continue in constructive and professional tone. Similar to this speech, we had discussions in the Commission. I would like to emphasise here to all the other honourable Members the arguments with which we have responded to such statements. Firstly, as a hematologist and also as an administrator, I must tell you that the execution of decisions, i.e. the demands of individual hospitals, is within the prerogatives of the transfusion centres. In no case shall the use of these products be decided by the application of the medical establishment. In this sense, there could not be any opposition between individual medical establishments or between bodies in the medical establishment, as this is a decision on the availability of blood products in the relevant part of the transfusion network. I do not want to open the theme of the state of the transfusion network in Bulgaria, which is crying at the moment. I think the President of the Health Commission and I have the same view here, we have specific views on the urgent need to improve the transfusion network. However, you should not have the impression that this law will create any imbalance between the individual units. Moreover, I would like to go into details that the honourable colleague probably does not know about some of the blood products received from the transfer centres are primary non-refundables. They're always paid. This is specifically about aferresic platelet concentrates, which are extremely important for the removal of patients in such a complex and severe therapeutic program as pre-transplantation, transplant and post-transplant preparation of the patient and its reanimation to a successful end. As a specialist with great pain, I must tell you that I am also so persistent that for years I have witnessed something in Bulgaria that never happens in corresponding medical facilities in Central and Western Europe. Our patients very often die from haemorrhagic diathesis, from bleeding because they cannot be provided with an adequate amount of organic products. Honorable colleagues should also bear in mind that, in the case of huge funds being spent, really huge funds from the educational establishment, respectively from the state, since all this is funded entirely by the state, it is indeed absolutely unreasonable because of the lack of one or another type of blood product to afford to lose a patient who is going in a good direction and could be taken out. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u75	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here's Dr. Alexandrov's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u76	Professor. Mihailov, you are very expert and you are deeply involved in things and you were a national consultant for haematology until nine months ago, as you say. In this respect you have had constant contact with the Ministry. These things are both planning and anything can be arranged this way. There is no need for legislative intervention to be done precisely these things. Moreover, this is your specialty. This inequality should be avoided because I claim that there is an inequality among patients mostly.................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u77	Thank you, Dr. Alexandrov. Are there any other statements? There are no requests for further speeches. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion, No 754-01-73, submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs on 19 October 2017. They voted 133 MPs: 52, against 4, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u78	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote procedure, as some Members and I have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u79	Please, re-election mode. Vote 139 MPs: 55 against 5, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO RESPONSE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF REASONS 46 OF THE LAW ON LEGISLATION TO CONFIRMATION OF NATIONAL HEALTH CARD OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The Health Committee report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Dr. Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on a draft decision to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the validation of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-02-108, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 December 2017. At its regular meeting held on 14 December 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a draft decision to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the validation of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-02-108, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 December 2017. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The list of guests present at the meeting shall be annexed to the full transcript of the meeting. The draft decision and its reasons were presented by the importer assoc. Dr. Georgi Yordanov. It informs the MPs of the disproportionate distribution of hospital care facilities in the country, expressing its lack of them in some areas and in excess in others. The Project for a Decision aims to delete the disproportion and ensure equal access of all Bulgarian citizens to hospital medical care. In a written statement, the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev expressed a position that does not support the draft decision because of its contradiction with basic constitutional principles and does not comply with the objective of the mechanism regulated in the Law on Medical Institutions for determining and planning the needs of accessible medical care through the National Health Card. In the course of the discussion, MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group expressed their disagreement in principle with the draft decision. The thesis that the excessive concentration of hospital care facilities in the country's major administrative and territorial districts leads to an overcost of the National Health Insurance Fund's budget for certain types of health insurance payments. The chairman of the committee Dr. Daritkova pointed out that not the number of hospital care establishments licensed to operate creates difficulties in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, but the unlimited legal opportunity for them all to be able to enter into a contract with the Fund. In this regard, a temporary restriction has been laid down by law for the conclusion of contracts with regional health insurance funds with a provision of the adopted Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. It is essential to seek opportunities for diversification of sources of funding of hospital care and the health care system in general. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft decision to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the validation of the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-02-108, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u81	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Allow me to give the floor for an importer's opinion. Here you go, Assoc. Georgi Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, yesterday the second consecutive health minister made the finding that the health system is chaos. This proposal, which we are looking at today, aims, although little order can be introduced into this chaos in the health system. What's this about? Unfortunately, there is currently a lack of the main regulatory document which determines where a health institution should be and what it should be.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Unfortunately, the judiciary rejected the version of the Health Card for better or for worse. As a result, the Minister of Health no longer has a motive when there is a request to open a hospital to say: "Yes, there should be a hospital here, there should be no hospital here. Again, unfortunately, all requests for hospital clearance are in areas where we have a super bed where there is an over-offer of hospital care. And tomorrow, when the National Health Card becomes a fact, probably March, for example, so says Health Minister Kiril Ananiev, it will be necessary, on the basis of this Health Card, to cut beds from already discovered hospitals, for which permission was granted a few days ago. Colleagues who had another opinion decided this power to pass through the National Health Insurance Fund. How? The hospital may have permission to operate, but it cannot enter into a contract with the Cashier this year. In fact, it remains only on the cash market, that is, in the conditions of Bulgaria this means that it cannot work. Where there are closed municipal hospitals and where the municipal council, the mayor has found money the municipal hospital to start working again, it turns out that it can't work because it can't have a contract from the Central Fund, although it can get permission from the minister. Therefore, we suggested that, until this basic document enters into force, the National Health Card should not be issued authorisations for hospital activities, and then, by that logic, they will be issued right there in hospitals where hospital beds are not reached. I hope you understand the logic of our proposal and will approve it. It is entirely in favor of this idea of bringing a light into the chaos of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u83	Professor Yordanov, please read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u84	The draft decision is as follows: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Until the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria is confirmed, no authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Hospital Hospital Hospitals Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u85	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, today we are actually starting the debate on whether we want municipal health, or are we going to abdicate from it? [[National Representative Daniela Daritkova laughs.]] It's not funny, Dr. Daritkova. It's a crying condition. Not only is there chaos, it's crying.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u87	I don't get the logic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u88	The logic is very clear. Over the years, the promiscuity of private hospitals led to municipal hospitals closing doors and going bankrupt. Here, this is the crying state. And it is not as fatal that new private hospitals have revealed themselves, as they duplicate activities that are also carried out by municipal hospitals. Thus, municipal healthcare suffers, is bled out by specialists, doctors, nurses, other personnel. In this way they also attract the clinical pathways, which are also implemented by municipal hospitals. That is the reason and it is natural that we offer you, since you do not offer a way to deal with it. We need to put a temporary moratorium on the opening of new medical facilities. However, Bulgaria has not revealed state health institutions. Even a children's clinic can't be revealed, but private establishments are emerging one after the other. They broke down here and closed 20 municipal hospitals. Yesterday they protest 31 and up to 120? In the media space it is launched that municipal healthcare is bad that this great debt is accumulated by it. Yesterday, in a person, it is said that municipal health has accumulated half a billion debts. That's not true. This is the total debt of health care. Only 100 million. lv. the debt has accumulated municipal healthcare. And as we deduct 30 million that are not paid to us, 70 million is only for municipal healthcare. It, apart from its main medical activity, has a social one because the citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria first goes to his, the municipal hospital, and then goes to the private institution, if there is such a financial option, or to the large Republican hospitals, which are actually the main driver of the accumulation of the great debt of health care. In the chaos of this health care, of course, we must put some peace and some moratorium and therefore we propose that we not reveal new medical facilities. On the basis of waking up from the Lethargy Sleep, the Ministry of Health and eventually proposing here to us to accept the new Health Card! This is the main goal. "The National Health Card. Unfortunately, I do not see it being about its implementation. So reconsider your decision not to support us, because we are importing this. I am absolutely convinced that if you had suggested it, there would be a forest of hands here and we would support it because that is logic. We have to deal with healthcare in Bulgaria and this is the way. Let's start with the National Health Card! So if we vote for the public health department, we will say for the municipal and public health. If we say no, we condemn him to death. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u89	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When we're talking about the National Health Card, I don't think you're imagining a map attached to the wall. Because the National Health Card is a tool for managing the National Health System. Because only the territorial location of a medical establishment, regardless of the type of its property, does not provide information on the available health capacity. And one more thing, she doesn't give information about anything even more important. It's not just about health care, it's about the economy as a whole. This is the free movement of people, in the case inside Bulgaria. We must clearly realize that things are no longer what they were a year or two ago. Whole regions are depopulated, so these things need to be reflected in the future National Health Card. For now, we are facing two possible options: to follow the country's current administrative division or to apply the European model of regional development to the future model of healthcare, which the colleague said we were starting a debate. Our vision for the National Health Card is to be directly dependent on the economic development of our regions. With the proposal made to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria is confirmed, and I repeat the words of Dr. Timchev, to temporarily stop the additional load of the system until we are aware and convinced what the real need of the medical institutions is. This temporary measure is absolutely necessary for everyone and Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u91	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? There's no desire to replicate. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you are, Dr. Daritkova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no way to support this proposal, this draft decision, for reasons that are procedural on the one hand, on the other hand, are principled. They are procedural in terms of the fact that the draft decision is submitted not in connection with a debate on questioning within the framework of parliamentary control and, in this sense, the National Assembly is not obliged to accept or replace it with another draft decision. Otherwise, from the point of view of principle, I would like to state the following. You propose to ban the issuing of operating permits by the Minister of Health. This is essentially unconstitutional because it violates the freedom of business initiative of medical institutions which are built by their owners, have fulfilled all the conditions and they can apply for an operating permit according to the regulatory framework. Of course, this right can be regulated and regulated in legislative order and not be absolute freedom of business in the sector as well as in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This can be regulated under another legislative order, not through this Draft Decision and the Constitution allows such interpretation of art. 19, which concerns precisely the free market initiative. From the point of view of the fact that you have the ambition to delete the disproportion in the presentation of medical care, there is also no way to obtain a solution through the Decision Project, because you are again missing the idea and view of the healthcare system in its entirety. Access to healthcare is not limited to access to a hospital care facility. Access to health care concerns access to emergency care, access to everything, access to a pharmacy, access to primary medical care, specialized assistance. All this guarantees the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens for accessible medical assistance. So, based on the context of the general possibility of equal access again, the proposal does not give a solution to the problems for which we do not deny that in time disproportion has occurred in the various regions of the country, in the possibility of access to medical services. With regard to the National Health Card, its parameters, the way it is developed and its content are not the result of a vision of one or another political power, but are clearly regulated in the Law medical institutions. At the moment, the Ministry of Health is implementing all the steps that are scheduled in this Regulatory framework. The regional committees draw up the projects of regional health cards, which must serve as the basis for the development of the National Health Card. Unfortunately, there is some delay in the activities of some of the district committees, according to my information from the Ministry of Health and after receiving and issuing the National Commission, which is once again regulated in the National Health Card Act, it will be validated by the Council of Ministers, not by the National Assembly, and published in due order. I hope that this time the procedural rules will be met so that it cannot be attacked in court. This mechanism will serve precisely as planning and an opportunity to regulate the equal access of Bulgarian citizens to health services. In the course of this production of the National Health Card, we have already adopted a decision ensuring that the disproportionate development of hospital care facilities is terminated. Namely, with the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, we prohibited contracts from being concluded by medical institutions in 2018 which were first authorised to operate in 2017. That is to say, within the framework of this legislative decision, we are enabling anyone who wants to finance the activities of their medical establishment to have been authorised to operate and operate, to be able to provide services to citizens who can benefit from it. But the problem is that all the medical facilities that are built on the territory of the country want to enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. This creates competition for the consumption of public resources, which within the framework of the established health contribution and within the established Law on the Budget of the Cashier has certain parameters. On the other hand, you want with one act of the legislative authority to force the Minister of Health to refuse to grant permissions to operate with an administrative act which can be attacked in court and this to create different opportunities for long procedural cases between the Ministry of Health and Medical Institutions, which have fulfilled all the conditions under the Law on Medical Institutions and the Health Act by submitting requests for permissions for activity. In this sense and from the point of view of these principled objections, this draft decision does not solve in any way the problems that you have actually referred to as possible for a solution, in no way guarantees equal access to healthcare for Bulgarian citizens and the parliamentary group of GERB will not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u93	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Assoc. Yordanov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Dr Daritkova! You've just made a sign statement that we're going to have to analyze. Our proposal limited the free business initiative, but, Dr Daritkova, the National Health Card is a restrictive mechanism that distributes the resources of the health system in the country, I hope correctly. If I accept your thesis, then there is no need for a National Health Card because we are limiting the free initiative! All 380 hospitals in the country will be sent to the Party Home in Sofia, which can come from Silistra, there is money, coming from the hospital, not being treated. Then, argument, he's a funny Dr. Daritkova, this act could be attacked in court, administratively. Any act can be attacked. When we warned you that the moratorium could be attacked by the Constitutional Court, what did you do? You didn't withdraw it. So what if you can attack it. I want to know clearly, are you against the National Health Card or are you not? Because from what you said earlier, I knew you were against it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u95	That was a first line. Is there a second line? Dr. Naydenova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! I will begin by saying that I will agree with Dr Daritkova that it is precisely the National Assembly that is the body that needs to confirm the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria to make sure that there will be no breakdown in the system, and each subsequent update will be on a proposal most likely from the Minister. That's just the beginning of the sentence. I do not agree that at the moment the Health Committee and the Ministry and the responsible institutions and we as National Assembly have ensured stability of the system in the coming months, I dare not even say a year. Because even in European regulations, it says that when there is no stability for the health system of a Member State, it has the right to suspend payments for patients who are being treated outside of it in Member States of the European Union. Can we be calm in this situation that we will ensure with everything else we have as an opportunity and mechanism that there will not be a collapse of the system? Personally, I would not commit to this even as a MP, and it is therefore better to take preventive measures now than then. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u97	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I admit that it is difficult for me to analyze your lines, because they are too extensive, a little eclectic, and again they concern the entire sector. I have by no means stated that I do not believe in the National Health Card, I am simply asking you to read the laws, read them carefully, we have been MPs enough months already. We are based on the legislative framework and we are referring to the law, and we are obliged to abide by it. The Law on Medical Institutions clearly states what is the National Health Card, what is the mechanism by which it is produced, who validates it. If you have any objections, if you have any considerations, change this mechanism! There is no need to waste plenary time here, everyone expressing their vision and, at the same time, not being useful to the healthcare system. I agree that the healthcare system needs stability. It is threatened by some deficits. They're mostly personnel, not financial. I therefore believe that the debate should be conducted at different levels, be expert and concern really important issues from the healthcare system. The fact that you will ban a few months from issuing operating permits will in no way help the system. This will only create difficulties for the Ministry of Health, which must lead cases with those who have requested these permits. During this time the National Health Card will be made because it is working now. I think I made it clear that the mechanisms for the development of the National Health Card work and it sets not the limit of health services that can be in individual hospitals, but it determines the minimum needs and access of citizens guaranteed through these needs. It is an instrument for planning investment in the direction of really achieving the same health security guarantee for all citizens in Bulgaria, regardless of the regions in which they reside.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u99	Thank you. Dr. Daritkova. Are there any other statements? There are no requests for speeches. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting on a draft decision to suspend the issuing of authorisations for carrying out medical activities under art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions until the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria was confirmed, No 754-02-108, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 December 2017. They voted 151 MPs: 58, against 57, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAW FOR THE PARTICIPATION OF SECURITY, No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. He was accepted in the first vote on 21 September 2017. Here you are, Mr. Nunev, to present the texts of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u100	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Chief Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate-General of National Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u101	Voting regime under the procedure so made. They voted 114 MPs: 110, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u102	Thank you. "Private Security Act Report No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017, adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2017. A second vote. A second vote. A second vote. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u103	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u104	The Commission proposes to establish a name:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u105	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the created new Chapter One, which the Commission supports. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u106	Article 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u107	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 1. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u108	Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 para. 4 is amended as follows: The order in which sole traders and legal entities (traders) under para. 2 and 3 certify that they comply with the requirements of this Law is laid down in the Rules for Law Enforcement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) Private security activities shall be a commercial activity aimed at protecting the life and health of natural persons, guarding the property of natural and legal persons, ensuring a maximum level of security in the transport of valuable consignments and cargo, ensuring the smooth conduct of different in nature and type of events. (2) The activity under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of a written contract by traders registered: 1. by the order of the Commercial Law or by the law of another Member State of the European Union, of another State, of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, which have obtained a licence under that Law; 2. in another Member State of the European Union, in another Member State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, which are entitled to carry out such activities under the legislation of the State in which they are established and to certify that they comply with the requirements of that law. (3) Private security activities in respect of property. Owned or used on a legal basis may also be carried out by: 1. Traders by para. 2 holding a licence or certificate to carry out private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. budgetary organisations within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, medical institutions, institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, higher schools, as well as strategic objects of national security importance, with a licence issued for self-security under this law. (4) The Minister of Interior shall issue a decree on the order by which the persons certify that they comply with the requirements of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill, which we are looking at today at second reading, actually regulates situations that have long been expected of the industry, but, of course, we have also, as opposition, made our proposals and have some principled views that we believe are right and should be accepted. In particular, our proposal is in art. 2, para. 4 where we propose instead of a regulation of the Minister of Interior to issue regulations for the implementation of the Law. What are our views and motives in this direction? One rule of application of the Law is a much more sustainable act and allows it to be subjected to wider public consultation and to reflect the interests of the persons concerned more accurately and clearly, as well as those who will carry out security activities and those who will receive this service. It is normal and correct in such a serious bill that the outstanding issues in it should be settled in the Rules of Application and not by a regulation of the Minister. Not that we have a lack of confidence in the Minister, but still a regulation of the Minister of Interior is an act which is much easier to change, would be passed inside including lobbying proposals, because the Minister is changing today, tomorrow, and a regulation for the application of the Council of Ministers to the Law is, as I said, a much more sustainable act. I believe that it is normal for fellow Members to support such a proposal. We also see certain weaknesses and nonsense in art. 2, para. 3, p. 2. In para. 3 it is recorded that private security activities in respect of the property of a person of his own or of legal use may also be carried out by persons who have issued a licence for self-security under this law. I apologize, but who needs to be granted a license? [[GERB lines.]] Don't replicate me from the hall, step out of the stands and speak. In para. 3 t. 2 is recorded:... organizations... with a license to protect themselves in the order of this Law............................................................................................... It is further settled, also in the Law, the way in which this self-guard is carried out, is again transferred by subtracting a licence. This is an unnecessary complication of legal entities who want to carry out self-security, literally forcing them to enter into a contractual relationship with companies. Because, what's the point of forcing an individual who, for example, wants to guard his office, or a legal person, to guard his levels or something, to make him get a self-defense license? It is more normal to be in order that is defined either in these Rules, which we apply for the application of the law, or in this regulation of the Minister of Interior, which you define. And to nail down now such a heavy requirement for self-security, to get a license, well, to put it mildly, ridiculously. You do understand that the majority of companies currently carrying out such self-security activities under the current law carry out only a notification regime to the relevant directorate and draw up a self-security plan do not obtain a licence. In practice, companies that will carry out self-security must go in the same order as companies that will carry out security activities. This Nonsense is pointless and I propose after the comma in para. 2 With a license issued for self-security under this Law to issue an editorial proposal so that we do not introduce in unnecessary dramas, in unnecessary bureaucraticism, bureaucratic obstacles the companies that will carry out self-preservation. This is one of the priorities of this majority, which currently manages to reduce the bureaucratic burden on business. And with this law, we make them go and pull out a bunch of papers to issue a self-security license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will start by saying that at the first reading of this Law in this House and Mr. Tsvetanov and the members of the Commission who have spoken, we have made a commitment that this Law will be working between first and second readings in a very broad form, a broad format in which, in the working groups, we will comply with the opinion of the Ministry of Interior and any expert who wishes to come to these working groups. Colleagues, with a calm conscience and a raised head, I am telling you that working on this law between first and second readings can be taken as a benchmark in the work of this National Assembly. Everything that was done under the Law was aimed at two things. First, to satisfy the requirements of the industry, of a sector of business that is adjustable, which is regulated by licenses. And secondly, to ensure the security of citizens in this aspect of activity. As for the main issue, I think, with the security units, I will just say that none of what you heard just now in the speech of my colleague Ivanov is true. There is no such thing in your proposed Law and the proposed article. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 3, p. 2 translated into unprofessional language is said as follows: The law of self-preservation in Bulgaria will have after the adoption of this article only the security companies licensed for their property, the security companies entitled to carry out security activities under this law only for their property and budgetary organizations. They are even listed which schools, hospitals and sites of our national security system. No one else after the adoption of this article will have the right to form their own self-guard units, even less so under light regime. Look, the philosophy of all people who have been doing security work for years is this: the creation of self-guard units has opened a door to create small or large private armies, small or large old brigades. And all those cases that we've been debating here at the Assembly, the Roundabout, etcetera, etcetera, were the result of the open door to the security units. And indeed all of us here, who will vote and who I invite to vote in favour of this Law, can come out of this Chamber proud that we have removed the security units. Because then with this vote, we'll remove the teams with four or five limos on the streets of our cities and highways. We'll take out ten brigades each, guarding one, and at the same time assigned as gardeners or any other. And we will introduce, because here is the logic of the next words of our colleague, who are also not true in this Law, there is no need for the Rules of Implementation, because all those texts concerning the rules on the application of security activities are within the Law, in further chapters that we will be looking at. And even for the specific regulation he's talking about, I'd advise him to just read it correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u113	Who is he?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u114	The coworker. The Minister of Interior shall issue a regulation on the order in which persons certify that they comply with the requirements of this Law. Can we, in order to list what documents must be submitted in order to obtain a license or to carry out an activity, draw up Rules on Law Enforcement? Just because you have to list inside how it is certified that you have the right to carry out security activities? I don't understand. You read, mate, you just read the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u115	Thank you, Mr. Manev. [[Applause from GERB.]] - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u116	Mr. Manev, you got carried away here in the speech, you forgot your card. Little by little emotions. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Manev! From your speech, I have remained even more confused because I did not really understand the Law what should be the application or regulation of the Minister? As you consider, Mr. Manev, that there is no need for the Rules of Application, to remove the regulation, as long as everything is set out in this Law. Because I don't see everything settled. And I think you're confusing things and concepts because these private guards, as you've called them, removing the current self-preservation regime, will eliminate them, but you're being cruelly mistaken. You guys are so messed up! Divide things because the appointment of guards in an office or in an enclosed area where they are located, for example, the machines of a company or some other property, and the creation of private guards that walk like Taliban after the chief with machine guns Why should we create an additional bureaucratic burden, I ask, to those who have faithfully fulfilled their commitments under the current law, and those who go to groups and tour the Sofia establishments and so on? You don't know why you're putting a sign of equality. It is no accident that I and my colleagues have proposed in the Law to have the Rules of Application, so that it is precisely those things for which the Law has a problem that can be cleared. Because a rule of law enforcement is a much more serious and more stable legal regulation than the regulation for which you could not even explain to us what it would serve. And it is not clear, because there is again written in the Law: "With the Minister's decree, with the Minister's decree. I do not agree with you, and I say that it is normal to allow those who guard their personal property, to set up self-security units that were in that order, not to go through the hard order of licensing to get a company and to create such companies, to take out their licenses. That's what this is about, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line? There's no second line. A hole, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u118	Dear colleague, do I understand the logic of what I'm saying? I guess I understand. I will also give you a textbook on private security activities to make it clear what the functions of private security are, if anyone has the right to carry a machine gun or not. General talk under such a special Law is not recommended. As for the specific questions you have asked me, I explain: in the regulation which refers to this article, it is about what documents must be submitted in order to obtain a certificate to carry out this activity. This cannot be regulated in the Rules of Application. Secondly, what you and I have just said on the subject of self-security units, they regulate precisely that no one has the right to make self-security units except for budgetary organisations, referring to hospitals, universities and schools, and the companies themselves who have a proper security licence issued, to guard their own property. From this lighter and inconvenient mode, there simply does not exist. And as for the logic of the self-security units themselves, I tell you, I cannot, I cannot accept, I have never accepted, and I will never support the existence of an opportunity in Bulgaria to make private armies and private organizations such that no one licenses and no one checks, and they have the right to really walk like bacchibozuks on the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're discussing art. 2 of the Private Security Act. Between first and second reading there are proposals from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev for dropping of para. Art. 3 of art. 2. The removal of the text is related to the inability to license self-security units under this Law. In the following articles become clear and the exceptions that are possible. The big question is: why did the original text on these security units have the opportunity to continue their existence, and why are they dropping out? With the proposal made between first and second readings, I do not have the illusion that it is not agreed with the Ministry of Interior, it is actually recognised that the Ministry of Interior cannot exercise control over those self-security units that have a self-security license and it is easier not to have such an opportunity. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, with this law, the ruling and above all the political party GERB create conditions for a new type of regulation in relation to private security activities and this is an element of this new type of regulation, creating conditions for those legal entities that have the opportunity to comply with the law so far and to have such self-security units, not to use the services of a private security company, to be obliged or to hire such a company, or to create a company that is under the regulation of this law, i.e. to be a direct competitor of large companies. This, you understand, is an increase in the administrative burden, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority! With these texts and specifically with the proposal to drop para. Art. 3 of art. 2 You indirectly give rise to more administrative burdens over legal persons. Where did your promise that in fact, in the mandate you will manage the cabinet Borisov 3, one of the commitments is to reduce the administrative burden in order to be able to stimulate the economy in Bulgaria? You must think that this is not a problem for economic operators who can afford it. I am telling you that any additional administrative burden is a problem for developing the economy in Bulgaria. I'll summarize my statement. With the dropping of this text, you first admit that you cannot cope in the sector with Security with the Ministry of Interior working with the Ministry of Interior to ensure the regulation of relations according to the laws in the country. Because there is another type of regulation that we have witnessed since the beginning of the year, which ends with shootings, ends with shootings, dear Mr. Manev! And, secondly, you do not think at all about how to do business in Bulgaria, how to stimulate and free the burden of the state working people. That is why I am strongly opposed to your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u121	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. The line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u122	Mr. Iankov, I know that you have expertise, and it's not so small in what you're talking about, because last year I gave you a textbook. I'm sure you've read it. But right now is the time to understand inside the BSP, in the internal security expertise, what you want..................... should we leave to a notification regime without the ability to control the security units. It is not the Ministry of Interior to be guilty, but to remain that regime in which, by notifying them, we are making a self-security unit, which is the internal structure of the company and may be reassigned whenever and as we wish, or to guarantee the security of the citizens by removing these units for self-security and leaving them a priority only to those state budget structures that do not have a financial burden to conclude such contracts with security companies. This was one of the huge wishes of your colleagues in the field of health, just from your group, which we have complied with in the Law. So that's my line to you. We have to choose and we chose and offer you the right one. Even for business is easier and better and they accept it with open arms. And just one note. You know what they said? If this thing with the removal of the self-guard units passes in the 44th Assembly, we will be incredibly surprised because we have wanted it for so many years, but no one has gathered the courage to do it. " - See, now we can show unanimously everyone in this assembly that we have gathered the courage. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u123	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Iankov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manev, you must think you're the only one who wrote some book because it's not a textbook. You think it's a textbook. And I think it's a joke because you can't mentor in terms of debating the Law. But in this opportunity, which I have under the backdrop procedure, I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question. Which business did you talk to with the one around the GERB party, with the one under threat of firing squad? Get down on the ground, ask the people who do real business! And this creation of conditions without competition in the private security activity of creating conditions for monopoly structures or cartel ones will become apparent immediately after the adoption of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 96 MPs: 27, against 57, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 2 in the version which the Commission supports. Vote 97 MPs: 74 against 14, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Private security activity shall be carried out after obtaining a licence under this law or certificate under the order of the ordinance under art. 2, para. 4. (2) The licence shall be issued for the conduct of the activity in the territory of the whole country or in the territory of a separate area. (3) The certification of the traders under art. 2, para. 2, p. 2 shall be issued for the operation of the entire country's territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u127	Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 3 which the Commission supports. Vote 91 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for art. 4. Vote 95 MPs: 78, none, abstention 17. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u128	Article 5. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in point (b) and the proposal referred to in point (a) is addressed. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 4 words by the Minister of Internal Affairs shall be replaced by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The types of private security activity shall be: 1. personal security of individuals; 2. security of the property of natural or legal persons; 3. alert-security activity; 4. self-security of property of persons under art. 2, para. 3; 5. security of drinking and entertainment restaurants, discotheques, gaming and computer halls; 6. security of urbanised territories; 7. security of events; 8. security for the transport of valuable consignments or goods; 9. security of agricultural property. (2) In carrying out the activities under para. 1 physical force, auxiliary and technical means may be used in cases and under the conditions laid down in this Law. (3) The persons referred to in art. 2, para. 2 and 3 carry out private security activities under para. 1 in accordance with the minimum security and safety requirements of the protected sites, including the necessary technical equipment, vehicles and personnel provided for in Chapter 2. (4) The arrangements for the organisation and the implementation of the activities under para. 1 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. (5) By the ordinance under para. 4 an indicative type classification of the objects on which security under para. is carried out shall also be defined. 1, t. 2 and 3, as well as their peculiarities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u129	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 again creeping in legislation gives the possibility of privatizing activities from the functions of the Ministry of Interior. Alinea 1, t. 6 "Protection of urbanised territories'; What does that mean? Is this going to enable the local authorities, the mayor of a city within the urbanised territory under this law and the security licence issued in urbanised territories to assign duplication of the activities of the Ministry of Interior in the part of the security and the Patrol-posting activity? Here is again proof of the prepared duplication of this activity of the Ministry of Interior.. that you are not coping that the political leadership, Borisov 3's cabinet has no concept and vision of how the Ministry of Interior should carry out the tasks under the Ministry of Interior Act, not only in the prevention, crossing, countering serious crimes, but also in relation to conventional crime. What have you decided? You give the opportunity to burden the local authorities, and financially, to carry out tasks of the Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, how far are you prepared to go? The tension that exists among the employees of the Ministry of Interior clearly cannot be comforted by the promise of the Prime Minister for 100 million, which is not clear how they will be added to the budget of the Ministry of Interior, because there must still be a change in the Act on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and we are waiting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u131	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u132	Do you think the people who work in the security system trust the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u133	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u134	Well, he promised in 2009. 70 percent increase in wages! And what happened? Exactly because to prove to you that it's on the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u135	It's not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u136	...at the Ministry of Interior, you keep the Existentz at least the wages of the employees and they scared you off with a billboard...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u137	Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u138	...you're trying to make changes right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u139	Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u140	...in the Private Security Act specifically to give the opportunity through art. 5, para. 1, t. 6 to privatize their activities by the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Manev, a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's take turns. I didn't forget it was you, just by the book... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start again from our proposal because by reading the proposals for amendment of art. 5 We understand that the proposed innocent Ordinance of the Minister of Interior, which would only determine the method of application in the words of the negotiators, suddenly it turns out that it lays down the terms and conditions for the organization and the implementation of the activities. 1 of art. 5, that is, in practice, the Minister will seize the functions of the Law. It will determine the manner and order in which this Law will be implemented. Alinea 5.. classification of the sites and so on. In this notorious Ordinance we will do everything else that is not written in the Law. And it is no accident that we propose that this be written in the Rules of Implementation of the Law, because a Rule of Law enforcement is much more difficult to amend, much more difficult to insert texts with small letters, much more serious stands, and more serious is a regulation of this kind. Because then this Ordinance will turn out to be even greater and with even more powers of the Minister within it. We carefully read the Law, very carefully. And just to remind the Commission that it was because of these texts that we left at the time, because you strongly refused to accept our proposals as an opposition group. And Mr. Iankov is very right about guarding urbanized territories. What does that mean? We have been talking for years about municipal police to expand the interaction of municipalities with the Ministry of Interior........................then.....in other texts...... by coming to these texts................................................ and at some point all this tyranny that has been pouring around the private companies. It is not a coincidence that we have put in motion today for a vote of no confidence, because you are creating another corruption environment in this way. It's public procurement again, and we're still gonna be choosing close-up companies to guard public events. What are we gonna do? Are we gonna give them a search party during these events when they're gonna guard urbanized territories? Because further down the line is what urbanized territory means, you wrote it very accurately. And you wrote that only the mayors of municipalities can make contracts in that order. And at some point, I expect the Ministry of Interior to take stock. The Ministry of Interior somewhere disappears from this story, will not deal with guarding urbanized territories and everything goes into the hands of private companies. Well, you're still creating opportunities to create hordes of security to go around, including the mayor, he can create private security, of course. The question is very complicated and very serious, and it is not a coincidence that we ask the question: why were they given and in what direction will this 100 million go, and at some point we are taking functions away from the Ministry of Interior? It means that maybe we can redirect those who are dissatisfied with the Ministry of Interior to go to private companies, provide labor there, what do we do? Because this Law doesn't do anything else! And I'm making a procedural proposal. Six down. Please record and vote separately. 6 of para. 1 of art. Five down! This thing is pointless and it's causing more problems than it's going to solve. Finally, I would like to ask Mr. Manev: has he declared a conflict of interest during today's vote and during the debates? At least from the data he gave as an autobiography, we think it might be in one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Manev, a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u144	A statement, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u145	- What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u146	With regard to conflict of interest, I have no conflict of interest because I have no contact with the security industry in the last four years. Again, I don't have a conflict of interest, you can check. With regard to Mr. Krasimir Yankov, his speech was great, I just want to point out the following. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! When discussing such a complex and voluminous Law, it is good to read the following articles, where it is clearly and precisely stated what functions are assigned in carrying out the activities of guarding urbanised territories. It is good that my colleague before me stopped by reading the article, but I am obliged to remind him: "Observation, control and reaction with mobile security patrols." Period! That means guarding the urbanized territories. It is stated in the Law, you will have the opportunity to vote on it further. No such free writings on the topic of security in urbanized territories with some squads and so on. There's no such thing! And right now in many cities there is video surveillance, video control. We simply in this Law make legal grounds for concluding contracts of such types of activities! Nothing at the Ministry of Interior, nothing at the Ministry of Interior, nothing at all, nothing at all, nothing at all, nothing at all, nothing at all! In this Law, we create the basis and the basis on which every mayor of the municipality who considers that there is an opportunity, or the municipality needs, to be able to legally conclude contracts for the implementation of the activity which I read to you just now. As far as the Regulation is concerned, we need to talk very seriously here, and I will very, very carefully try to explain, and I hope you will understand nothing else, I do not know if I will be able to explain it correctly. Look, in addition to the regulations that each of us imagines how the Minister of the Interior writes that it should be done that such and such funds should be used and so on, there are also some special sites, for example, banks. You know, right now one of the most popular themes is ATM robberies? I'll give you an example, just because in recent months it's very common in television and media for them. We have a decree between BNB and the Ministry of Interior for the categorization of the sites, what should be done for an object where there is, for example, 100 thousand. lv.? However, this Regulation should now include ATMs, because there are 100,000 ATMs in one ATM. BGN, but it is not a cash register, it is not a banking room and there should be reacted. This is how, when the security of such an object is taken over, the minister can assign clear and accurate enhanced criteria, taking into account the criminogenic situation and the dynamically changing crime process. That's why we're giving this opportunity, not for something else. And inside, it clearly says what's going on. Alinea 5 and para. 6 are mutually complementary and clear and accurately explain what is happening in this Ordinance. It is not a question of aggravating itself now with the rules of application, but tomorrow, when another type of ATM appears, of thinking about how to insert them into the Rules of Application of the Law. Here, things are concrete! I think it's time to unite around this Law and proclaim it together to show that we really care about both security and business in this sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u147	Thank you, Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Then there's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Manev! You may have made a mistake, but al. Six won't...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u149	Lapsus.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u150	Yeah, maybe it's a lapsus. You made an impression on me, and that caused me to pick up a line. You told us to take care of business. Apparently, this Law is full of business care. Here, you confirm it. Where is the state here, Mr. Manev? I didn't for a reason make an offer to drop urbanized territories, and let's take care of the country in some way. May the Ministry of Interior have a more serious interaction with the local authorities, not take away the functions of this Ministry and give them to the business. Because it already smells like lobbying here, not something else. And this Law you have called us to accept by consensus, and it already smells like lobbying. Do you understand? And will enter into the category of laws adopted by the current majority in the direction of private interests. It doesn't leave us any other impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Iankov, you wanted a line. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Personal explanation? Another line? I won't. Answer the line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u152	Colleague Ivanov, I hope that the whole half of the hall, the left, all colleagues, including you, I am sure of it, you distinguish between lobbying and between caring for business. This business, by the way, I said it and in the beginning, I will say it and now in response to your line, he is one of the most difficult in his work. Why? It is subject, first, to licensing regime, then, in the words of your colleague Jankov, to control by the Ministry of Interior and is nevertheless a business. And we really need, when we regulate such complex relationships that are related to both the security of the country and the interaction with the Ministry of Interior and with doing business, to be concerned about business. And that's why I use without any concern the word "care" for both the industry and the business. I don't care if you think there's something lobbying about it. I'm sure you don't. As for your line on al. 4 and para. You're right, yes, I was wrong, I'm sorry. It's fourth and fifth, not fifth and sixth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u153	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Manev! We're probably reading the same texts and we've met each other according to our own expertise. With this article. 5 You break up the licensing activity, thereby once again increasing the administrative burden, first. And speaking of duplication of the activities of the Ministry of Interior, did you happen to read the Ministry of Interior Act? Have you guys met that there's such a thing as prevention? What you're explaining, what is it? You are putting activities into the local authorities, which is privatizing activities against which it will be paid, and that is exactly what I have said: the Ministry of Interior is not doing well and you are looking for the easiest way to transfer activities to the local authorities...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u155	Mr. Yankov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u156	...now, within this term, when the big cities are won by GERB. What about the next term?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u157	Mr. Iankov, may I ask you? Thank you for understanding. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Nikolay Penchev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov, which is not... [[Noise and lines.]] I haven't forgotten, it's the next entry and it's the same category, I'll put it to the vote. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 19 against 57 abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov to drop the item. 6 of para. 1 of the text of art. 5 which is proposed by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 66, abstentioned 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 5 which is proposed by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u158	The Commission proposes to set up new Articles 6 and 7: Art. 6. (1) Private security activities shall be carried out with unarmed or armed guards. (2) The armed guards shall comply with the requirements of the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles and the regulations governing its application. (3) Private security activities shall be carried out through fixed and/or mobile security. (4) For private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 1-7 and 9 shall be used only for vehicles of the property of or employed by the person under art. 2, para. 2 and 3 as well as employed or provided by the contracting authority under the security contract. Art. 7. (1) When carrying out private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 2-6 in an observation post may exceptionally be designated performers of security activity which do not comply with the requirement of art. 50, para. 3, p. 5 after presenting a medical certificate that they can carry out this activity. (2) The performers of security activities under para. 1 shall not be assigned any action other than monitoring and signalling by means of technical means or systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u159	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to establish new Articles 6 and 7 and the texts of Articles 6 and 7 have just been submitted by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u160	The Commission proposes to establish a name "Chapter 2" "Minimum requirements for security and safety of the protected sites, including the necessary technical equipment, vehicles and personnel."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u161	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of the second chapter of the European Parliament's resolution on the minimum security and safety requirements of the protected sites, including on the necessary technical equipment, vehicles and personnel. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u162	The Commission proposes to create a name
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u163	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of Vote 95 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u164	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 which becomes art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u165	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 6 which becomes art. 8 which the Commission supports. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u166	The Commission proposes to set up new Articles 9 and 10: Art. 9. (1) A procuring entity under a personal security contract of a natural person shall be an adult and a depreciable protected person. (2) Where the protected person is underage or unfit, a contracting entity under a security contract of that person shall be his legal representative. Art. 10. (1) The performers of the security activities and/or the head of the security team shall carry out the guards under art. 8 in daily clothing, without the trademark of the trader, if this is expressly provided for in the contract. (2) The official identification card of a member of the security staff shall indicate that it shall carry out personal security under art. 8. (3) When carrying out personal security of a natural person, the performers of the security activity and/or the head of the security team shall also be identified with their official identification card when checking by the control authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-17.u167	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish new Articles 9 and 10 with the text presented by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 82 against 0, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, the next text to create Section II is long enough and we could not participate in the regular time. The next plenary session shall be on 18 January 2018 at 9.00 on the adopted Programme. I am adjourning today's plenary session.
