ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will read you the Work Programme of the National Assembly on May 30, 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018, adopted at the first vote on 3 May 2018. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers: Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018. 3. Hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union after 2020. Importer: Desislava Taneva on 28 May 2017. Point 1 for Thursday 31 May 2018 4. Parliamentary control at 9:00 p.m. Please vote. They voted 159 MPs: 102, against 19, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is no way that we from the opposition do not object to the following that there are bills that are aged in committees and which do not reach the plenary. My request is for you, Ms. Karayancheva, to warn all committee chairmen to look at these bills, because it is not really normal when a law, such as the Penal Code submitted by the opposition, which was adopted at first reading, which is quite normal to be seen at second reading, should not be in plenary. And the law on interest rates, which of the patriots is wanted to be watched, surprisingly why the Budget and Finance Committee refuses to look at it. In the end, if you do not agree with the officials, you can safely reject them, but we want to have a debate on these bills so as to hear the opposition's opinion as well. It is the same with the Law on Volunteering, about the cultural check, that is, there may be technical reasons why some laws should not be dealt with, but my request is that you pay attention to committee chairmen to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I will follow your recommendation and ask committee chairmen to look at their agenda and where they have delayed bills to move them forward. I would also like to add that there are bills that were adopted at first reading, but the period between first and second readings is extended to maximum and therefore may not have entered the second reading room. Thank you for reminding me. Colleagues, we have received a proposal for inclusion on the agenda under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: "On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 30 May "1 June 2018" should be included in the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Youth Act, No 754-01-36, as of 5 July 2017. Who's gonna introduce us to the Bill? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I know that you remember that three times from this tribune the group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party submitted a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Law on Youth. There are issues on which we can debate and which are important to our young people. You know that last year there was a meeting in Varna and with the participation of the Bulgarian President, where it became clear that young people have different positions, but common demands regarding one such Youth Act. It is for this reason that we insist, perhaps for six months, that this Law should enter and be seen here by all of us so that we can create conditions for young people in Bulgaria. There is a whole chapter in it for volunteering and so on. In order not to get the impression that the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria is neglecting the problems of young people, I urge you to support the proposal and debate on the Youth Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. I put to the vote the proposal to include this bill in our weekly programme. They voted 165 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a re-voting procedure. At least by self-respect, the MPs with three points per week program, let us also consider this bill, colleagues. It is extremely important. Do not undermine the prestige of the National Assembly again. Let us work this week, colleagues from GERB, an honourable majority, and do some work in favor of Rodu! Please rescind this bill and release it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u7	Please, re-election mode. They voted 174 MPs: for 83, against 21, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions of 23 "May 29" This Decision shall A bill ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the field of European satellite navigation programmes. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill ratifying the Comprehensive, Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on projects for the acquisition of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion combat groups of the Mechanized Brigade and the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. Importer: Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and to the Budget and Finance Committee. Annual Activity Report of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2017 and Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2017, part of which is the Financial Supervision Commission's budget implementation report for 2017. Importer: Financial Supervision Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Message: On 25 May 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018. No 802-00-28, the National Assembly received a Report on the activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure. Then a statement from Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is with you. A week ago, a bill for the Car Chamber was submitted to the National Assembly. This bill, Madam President, has been distributed only to the Transport Commission. The bill concerns the withdrawal of powers of the Minister of Transport, restructuring of activities in the Ministry of Transport, and I think it is unacceptable that such a bill, submitted by MPs, not by the Council of Ministers, where a conciliation procedure goes through the ministries, is not to be dealt with in a Legal Commission. There are many legal questions there and we need the expertise of colleagues from the Legal Commission. This bill also concerns intervention - regulation in the industry, which will inevitably lead to sanctions from the European Commission, if not the attention of colleagues from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is also taken. My request is to be assigned to this committee, as it seems to me that they have something to say about it. And most importantly in the motives of the Bill, and the one launched by two or three days in the media thesis is that this is the way to fight corruption, that there is corruption in the Ministry of Transport and with this bill, this restructuring puts an end to corruption in the Ministry of Transport. I think it is imperative that the bill also be dealt with in the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. And if this is the way, if colleagues from this committee support this bill as a measure to combat corruption, the next thing I would suggest is to close down the Ministry of Transport and do it to private structures exported outside the public administration to combat corruption in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll pay attention and inform you in person. Yes, for the Legal Commission, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Combat Commission are corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, okay. Before we proceed with the next point, Mr. Mareshki has a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Bulgaria faces a robbery, in times heavier and bigger than the one we have not yet recovered from the problem of KTB. While CCB, if its concept is designed and realized for many years, to steal about four billion in gross accounts from the Bulgarian taxpayer, with the decision to purchase several planes, frigates and several cars will be stolen literally with one signature for day 6 billion. lv. from the Bulgarian budget. Money made by the Bulgarian taxpayer, by your voters, I would say heavy, not to say bloody labor, a penny by penny. And today the news on all media is again about a robbed old man in a separate village, riots in other settlements, holes in the roads, hospitals facing bankruptcy, unworthy education and lack of access to health care. That is why we, from the Parliamentary Group of Volja, yesterday submitted a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly, to the Bulgarian MPs who are here to correct any injustice with which to have a moratorium on these transactions. This spends to be stopped until the well-being of the Bulgarian people is improved until all problems in the country are resolved. To date, the submitted project is worth 3.3 billion. BGN, but here we are talking about half the planes and without the frigate, which means the entire project is worth over 6 billion. lv. The main reasons we oppose this project are that the poorest state in the European Union cannot afford at this stage to spare billions of leva for the army, given that hospitals are bankrupt, there is no money for higher pensions, for the salaries of Bulgarian teachers, Bulgarian doctors, Bulgarian cultural workers because they are both bankrupt and theatres, for nurses, for police officers, you know what the problems with prisons were. Secondly, it takes a complex approach, not buying a piece to modernize the army. No spending should be made, in the words of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev from the other day, without clear strategy and efficiency. No one can tell us what the efficiency of buying a few planes is. Will we have a National Assembly if we only have a tribune and there are no MPs, no one inside?! So buying a tribune doesn't make the Assembly. Buying a few planes doesn't make the army. A week ago, the government granted military minister Karakachanov the 3.3 billion. lv. for armored ground equipment and for fighter planes. The huge amount is envisaged, and again I say this is only half to be paid by the Bulgarian taxpayer in the next 10 years. Naturally, the question arises: since there is no money for the police, for the prisons, hospitals are bankrupt how and where did this money come from in the state budget? I would just like to recall the fact that the pressure for robbing Bulgaria, for betrayal of the Bulgarian national interest is not from today. It's just that today there were people who were more active to do it and brought it through the smaller coalition partner. In 2015, Prime Minister Borisov said: "There are no such defence sums and who promised them to tell him which other sphere to take them from." This has been repeatedly stated by Prime Minister Borisov, also supported by the finance minister, and I think most of the society. We, too, have not forgotten that the main election promise of Karakachanov and his colleagues was for high pensions. As early as 2016, they said the money for them would be taken from the reduced arms costs. I quote Karakachanov's deputy Mr. Veselinov, who said this here from the stands at the end of 2016. Going into parliament, they quickly forgot that there was no money. Now it turns out there is money, but Minister Karakachanov is more concerned about new luxury toys than he is about keeping his promise to the people about police in every village, about high pensions, about incomes, about dealing with the demographic crisis, about his promise to these people, to those Bulgarian citizens who trusted him and sent him to power. Our view is that at this stage and at this state state, this money can be given to health care, schools, internal affairs, security, pensions, sports and culture. Again, doctors and nurses are out of wages and protesting. Terminal 2 continues to be full of young people fleeing from Bulgaria, police are struggling and unable to deal with elementary domestic crimes. Not to mention the gap craters everywhere. We in Varna are trying in some way to correct the situation, but it is irreparable. Against this background, we allow ourselves to spend billions of levs on technology that will soon have no one to rule! For us this is betrayal of the Bulgarian national interest. To those who have been misled, I will tell them: we, from Volja. And I, too, have been subjected to pressure, to threats, to suggestion. Such a decision, such a robbery can only be made out of stupidity, fear or corruption. I do not think that Minister Karakachanov is a fool to bring such a thing, fear and corruption remain. However, if it is out of fear, then is he entitled to be Minister of Defense and Deputy Prime Minister? There remains what people most often doubt in Bulgaria that corruption is involved again. The fact is that one of the things they tried to insinuate to me is that I shouldn't resist this thing because it's very dangerous and we resist because we're not in the bargain. You do realize that the very fact that someone is telling me that the person behind this scam is telling me that I fought back, so those who are about to tell me are in the bargain. They themselves admit that this is about corruption. Can you imagine what level we're talking about to those who are lobbying to spend this money on the Bulgarian budget? But if a minister has forgotten himself, he has forgotten his promises and so on, the role of the Bulgarian MPs, the MPs of the Bulgarian doctors, Bulgarian teachers, policemen, Bulgarian cultural figures is even more responsible and we must protect the Bulgarian national interest if the ministers cannot. In the 1950s in post-war Europe, the first to be built were hospitals and schools. Bulgaria has not been in a post-war period, but has been in a deep crisis for years. Therefore, first of all, we need to deal with the health of the nation, the security and the future of our children through quality education. Why are these priorities so boldly ignored in front of all of us because of the interest of a group of people and different lobbies? Does anyone realize we're pouring these billions out of our suffering people's pocket for the development of foreign economies? At the same time, the small and medium business in Bulgaria is in collapse, and I will repeat about education, for Bulgarian doctors, teachers and policemen who with such decent jobs are wondering how to feed their families. Not to mention the standard of living of our parents, to whom so-called patriots generously promised a sharp increase in pensions. It turns out that for them military toys are much more important than the fate of the people and I can't help but say something that the Bulgarian people have said: to a naked tumbak pair of pistols. A dying country, a corrupt country, bankrupt hospitals, and we buy planes! Minister Karakachanov and other such clackers will immediately oppose us. We have commitments to NATO, don't we? He's probably right, but I'll replicate him with two other things. Yesterday or the other day, Antônio Guteresh, the Secretary General of the United Nations...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u11	The weather, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u12	... outlined the vision of global disarmament. Gutterish explains that leaders had a responsibility to minimize the risk of deadly weapons.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u13	Finish it, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u14	I'm graduating. Two more sentences. Disarming is the concern of each side and must cover every weapon from hand grenades to hydrogen bombs. This is to the UN because we also have commitments there, but where are the commitments to the Bulgarian voters, which is even more important for each of us? Willie will not put up with this, we will not stop repeating that we want urgent measures to increase the welfare of the people and only then can she...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u15	Get it over with, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u16	...let's afford to spend people's money. For us, people come first, not planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u17	Thank you. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! With the gender ideology, it seems that politicians have begun to change not only gender, but also beliefs, election programs, the things they have entered this room. We have been following the creative reincarnations of an unspeakable political leader who has been doing cunning pirouettes in political space over the past few months: suddenly, as Natetz has been become anti-Nattic, as it has been for modernization, it has proved to be against modernization, as it has been for business, a defender of pensioners and a number of other such things. This is the strength of an artist to be able to have his creative reincarnations. The question is whether a politician should have such incarnations or should he stand up for the things for which he entered into a format of the National Assembly? In this regard, I cannot talk about others, I can talk about us, the United Patriarchs, who, on the first day of this National Assembly, in the previous National Assembly, albeit in another format, have always stood up for the things for which we have entered the government. We had almost a month of negotiations to form this government, because the conversation with GERB was difficult for one main reason. We did not want to give in to our desire to raise the standard of people and those most damaged in fact by the transition, unfortunately, our fellow countrymen who have worked for four decades and lived with pensions to 50% of the poverty line that the state officially announced to continue living like this. After all, we took the first step and raised pensions. Moreover, we have been able to record in our management agreement that the aim of this governance will be the maximum reduction of the difference between the line of poverty and the minimum pension income. We raised incomes, practically together with GERB. We're not taking any credit here. We raised income in a number of spheres. Because there was talk of education, there was no government and government that had such a clear focus on education and spent so much money, registering so much money in the system. Because there's talk of health care, we put in a squadron of planes every year because we give about a billion more. It's been like this for years. The question of re-arming is a matter of national security, but also of national honor. Bulgaria will have it when the Bulgarian Army has it and as long as the Bulgarian Army has it. That's our credo. We've always said so and we've never given up on that position. The efforts of the current government and Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov in several directions are ignored, or rather deliberately not noticed. First of all, the army can be an engine of the economy. We didn't go and shop on some foreign company's catalogue to leak the money somewhere in the West, so we have no intention of doing that. On the contrary, we, as a government, intend to set conditions for the maximum export of the production of all these military machines in Bulgaria, maximum application of offset, that is, an additional injection into the Bulgarian economy, and creating an additional opportunity for our defence industry to generate not only revenue but to generate defence power. The question was: who will fly these planes? Well, if we stop those planes we have, in two or three years, no one's gonna fly. I mean, if we don't invest in defence, repair of existing equipment and modernization, we obviously won't have pilots soon, because without flights they won't be pilots, and obviously we won't have adequate defense capability. It's not a toy plane, it's not a toy armored machine, it's not a toy frigate. It is a guarantee that all the social, health and other rights that the state provides can protect them on the territory of our country. As I continue to ask myself about these cunning pirouettes and circus performances in recent months, I ask the following questions: how can we guarantee our security, our rights as Bulgarians, their national dignity without alliances, because someone wants us to get out of the alliances? How can we guarantee them without an army? If this person wants us to have no army at the same time and leave our alliances, let him declare which external force pays him and who wants to occupy Bulgaria territory because Bulgaria without an army is territory?! That's the question I'm asking from this tribune, and let the people, the actors, declare why and who they serve. In conclusion, I would like to say that despite the circus tricks, despite the creative reincarnations, the voters of the "United Patriarchs" would hardly vote for a party such as the "Volja" because the forgery is prominent. We have a cause, we have goals, we have faith in Bulgaria, and here we have experience of petty nagging and flirting with the ugliest face of populism, playing with those who are not present to those who speak them. In conclusion, I would like to state the strong support of the United patriots to increase the fighting capacity of the army and I hope that there will be a consensus in the Chamber of the National Assembly on this matter, not because NATO wants it or some external force, but because we have a responsibility to Bulgaria and our fellow countrymen. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! During the speech by the parliamentary group of Volja "Mr. Mareshki," he repeatedly allowed himself to apply insulting qualifications to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Karakachanov and was in no way sanctioned by Ms. Karayancheva, which is unacceptable. I would also like us of the United Patriarchs to insist that he receive the appropriate penalty. Such neglect of people in this Parliament who violate the Rules of the National Assembly is unacceptable, at the very least, that this person is Vice-President of the National Assembly. I hope he at least read the Rules so he knows what he's doing. We demand that he receive the appropriate penalty because this is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'll pass on your recommendation to the Speaker of Parliament, we'll review the recordings and we'll make a decision. Moving on to work on the program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, before the report for second reading under the Law on the Judiciary, please ask for a procedure for admission for the Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u23	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 136 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u24	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018, adopted on the first vote on 3 May 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary (prom., DV. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u25	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 124, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u26	Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 30, para. 5 is created t. 18: 18. The College of Judges shall terminate the appointment of a judge to another judicial authority from the office in which it holds the relevant judicial office, where, in the case of the posting, there are violations of the terms and conditions laid down in the Judicial Tribunal Act, or where necessary for the personnel provision of the work of the judicial authority from which the Judge is addressed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u27	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I find the proposal quite resonant. It is a proposal that will untie the hands of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, because we boasted everywhere that we increased the powers, divided the College into two colleagues, both judges and prosecutors, and what is it? In the cases of secondment there where there are violations and the secondment must be suspended, the College of Judges shall have no power to take part in this secondment and to cease this infringement. This text gives an opportunity where a court is exposed, there is no judge, competitions are not released, and all judges are posted higher, the Judicial College of the SJC may take a decision to suspend the posting, to ensure the normal functioning of this regional court. I therefore ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. It's in the interest of the justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u29	Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will also call on you to support the proposal of colleague Alexandrova. In the Legal Committee, we tried to find another version of this proposal, more appropriate, but we couldn't. I think the editing that's being proposed is good enough. I allow myself to recall here the particular reasons behind this proposal, namely: the changes that colleague Alexandrova has made in art. 30 are related to the posting institute, which is a temporary means of solving the personnel problems in the judiciary system and its excessive duration, for which there is no legal limitation during the dismissed posts in the system, replaces career growth by holding the dismissed posts through a competition. The College of Judges is responsible for the personnel filling in the judicial authorities, from which it follows that it must have the power to control and regulate the posting. The requirements of the court to which the Judge is seconded may be met either by a contest or by the secondment of another Judge. However, the authority from which the Judge is seconded has no other option to resolve the posting-related personnel problem, except by addressing the personnel authority requesting the disclosure of new posts, which is ineffective and inappropriate where the expansion of the statutory number of judges will significantly reduce their workload compared to other equally similar courts. The authorisation should therefore be by suspending the secondment. The legal facts which would give reasonable grounds for termination of the posting, if such power is provided for the College of Judges, are either unlawful of the The Administrative Directors shall not be left out of control in this activity, which is of their exclusive competence, especially under objective law in force, where the posting of vacant posts is not limited by a period of time, as settled by the matter of the posting of temporary vacant posts. We cannot foresee the powers of the Plenum, respectively the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, on the cedric provision of the judiciary and at the same time not to ensure the necessary powers in the Law of Chambers to be carried out. We cannot allow the inaction of one or another administrative supervisor to lead to interruption, difficulty of the work of the magistrates from a certain court and even more to increase the workload in equal degrees of the courts.................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Mitev, I am making a line based on what was put forward as arguments by everyone who was present at our meeting in the Legal Commission. First, posting cannot replace the career development of magistrates. Everything you've put out may be true, but in extremely rare cases. Even the Supreme Judicial Council has said that there are only two such cases so far, and we should not legislate in principle about exceptions. That's my first argument. The second one, you claim that the norm is written as it should be. The norm does not contain the prerequisites for the college to revoke the decision of the administrative manager, that is, even the wording does not fulfil what it should be. The judicial system is independent, in the Supreme Judicial Council are elected people who are nevertheless politically determined to some extent, and when you give them the opportunity to revoke a magistrate's decision, this must be based on precisely defined in the Law prerequisites. For this reason we have united to remind you, and we have not supported the text. I believe that this text should not be adopted at the moment and that the Commission report should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Milkov, in fact, the prerequisites are in the proposed text. Yes, they are not said in such a way as you expect them to be, but are practically written properly enough. One prerequisite is, I quote: "When there are violations of the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on the Judicial Authority, we have an unlawful posting, which is in violation of the conditions laid down in the Law. Exactly what I said was as one of the main motives, as an absolute prerequisite for termination of the posting. Next, if necessary for personnel provision. Let us not forget that standards are, after all, abstract rules of conduct, and there is no way to list all cases where we may have such a need. I only pointed to some of them, for example, retirement. There is absolutely no way to spell everything out, and that is not the purpose of the norm and of the Law. As far as the first part of the line is concerned, frankly, unfortunately, I was not able to attend the final vote and I did not support the rejection of the proposal. On the contrary, in principle, I supported this proposal, hoping that we would be able to find appropriate editing. I see that such a better version of what was originally proposed has not been found. I therefore believe that the proposal is, in principle, correct and should be supported, even in this form and in this version, which I consider appropriate. I don't think we're making legislation on a particular case. In practice, we need to predict all possible hypotheses that can happen. What is more, however, since we are imposing certain rights on a certain body, we must also give it the relevant legal capacity to exercise those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other speeches? You had a statement, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, Mr. Kirilov, I didn't see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor because the debate has indeed become interesting and meaningful, and this has been the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. On this point, a decision was made to adopt it in principle and we proposed to fellow experts to develop an editing so as to distinguish between the two hypotheses, the two prerequisites for which we are now arguing: whether there are clear prerequisites, or if there are no clearly stated prerequisites. Including discussing and commenting on a version of a two-phase procedure in which the administrative director who committed the wrong, unlawful secondment or inappropriate secondment has an option to correct his own actions. Unfortunately, at the final vote at the Commission meeting, which was held, we had indeed remained few colleagues, we only commented on the expert text and the expert version. I return to these arguments which commented on the philosophy and meaning of the Law on the Judiciary. Look, we rely on this body to implement the overall personnel policy in the judiciary, which follows that it would really matter if the College or the plenary had the option of correcting, correcting action when the Law was violated or when a court or judicial authority was really left without magistrates. The colleagues commented, correctly said colleague Mitev that he was holding on to this proposal. As a matter of fact, we are collaborators with colleague Anna Alexandrova, so we offer to your attention this case with the clear awareness that we must take into account the possibility of internal self-control in the judiciary when exercising this possibility of secondment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 103, against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Declaration. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For nearly thirty years elections have been held regularly in Bulgaria. For the third decade the vicious practices of bought, controlled and corporate vote have flourished: professional electoral brokers broker with votes, mayors and district managers commit to concrete results, employers conduct electoral meetings and profilers of their workers and this no longer impresses anyone. Gocho, Docho and Danko Harsuzina were institutionalized in official winners because according to the naturally necessary terminology in our country elections are not won in the elections. This has its specific dimensions. The election process is delegitimized. The election results are distorted. Citizens are increasingly alienated from the political life of the country and less and less of them make sense to vote and less and less confidence in the representative institutions. While in national elections, the presence of international observers, NGOs, a large number of advocates still softens this practice and makes less possible large-scale machinations, local elections, especially in small towns, are often completely corrupted. Indicators in this aspect were held during the past Sunday partial local elections in the villages of Beden, Smolyansko and Galice, Vidinsko. Especially the latter has become a symbol of the heavy gold chain and the victorious glass of whiskey are the regals of the local authorities in Galice. This has been the case for years and will continue to be so because the former mayor, sentenced to four and a half years for kidnapping, beatings and robberies Tsenko Chokov, actively participated and contributed to the election of GERB's candidate, his personal friend and close associate. We have presented the phone numbers from which Tsenko Chokov called people on election day and just before him. We were going to ask the Minister of Justice where and how a prisoner could have phone numbers, but we decided it doesn't make sense. We already know that in these matters the main competent people in Bulgarian prisons are the cleaners. [[Laughter]] On the day of the elections in Galice, strangers appear to local citizens. Many of them work in cable television, owned by the municipal manager of GERB. New voters are registered at addresses in semi-destructed, long abandoned and uninhabited buildings. They are organized, and when a BSP advocate approaches one of the cars to ask what they are and where they come from, they try to run him over. These, other than the other voters, enter the building in which they are voted through the back door. It's a V.I.P. terminal that's provided in front of uniformed officers. I think we are all getting a clear picture of the atmosphere of election day in one of the settlements of the proudly presiding Council of the European Union Bulgaria. As for the elections in the village of Bedden, the circumstances are no less scandalous. In the village there is only one major employer - owner and director of the local plant. He clearly explains to his workers that if they do not vote for the candidate of GERB, the plant will be closed, they will remain unemployed and will be doomed to doom. On this, the last point of doom, albeit for other reasons, after what happened this weekend, we are about to agree with the influential poor businessman. Indeed doom and indeed we are doomed if we continue to twist our head around the obvious anomalies of Bulgarian political life. We're doomed if we put up with the power of the gold chain. It's freezing not only what happened, it's frustrating the peace with which all of this is being accepted. The BSP is a political force involved in the electoral process. We have seriously opposed, lost with fewer votes than are the employees of the local television station of the respective Gerberian leader or those voters in Beden who managed to vote before the section officially opened. Soon there will be elections again and BSP will be there again. But it's not just a collision, BSP against GERB! If now, today, after what has happened, when things are so brutally clear, there is no strong and uniform reaction of all political parties, civil society organisations and at all of our public, that no deviation from the honest electoral rules can no longer be accepted and tolerated...... if this does not happen now, then in the local elections next year Galice will be universal and peacefully rename all the settlements of Beden. Unfortunately, most of that name will fit. We have also taken note of this fact to the European institutions. Today we will also ask Frans Timmermans the man in charge of the rule of law and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms in the European Union, how does he imagine the full participation in the forthcoming European elections of people whose vote for their closest commissioner, for the mayor, was corrupted and stolen? With this statement we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are saying that we will not accept this situation! We have already alerted the prosecution about the information we have received, we have looked at European and international observers. Today we will also send letters to 12 active in the electoral process NGOs from all over the civil sector. We demand a parliamentary hearing of the Interior Minister for the police's actions on election day. We'll make sure everything that happened this weekend is made public. To those who decide not to keep their mouths shut, we guarantee our support. I am using this case to warn you that we are fully aware of the pressure that BSP-activists are under on the ground, including our participants in the electoral committees, and I say that we will stand behind them as one. To the participants in the political process, inside and outside the parliament, who are silent so that no one thinks that they are helping the BSP, we remind that very soon they themselves will appear in elections and if elections are held like this, the chances of real political representation of their voters are quite illusory. In fact, it is quite easy to talk about freedom and democracy, hard to practice and even harder to defend. Of course, we are a free society and everyone has the right to remain silent, but today when you know what is happening, silence is no longer neutral. Today silence is a choice for the benefit of GERB and Chokov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I welcome the BSP colleagues for understanding that there are also partial local elections in Bulgaria. The partial local elections held last week were not the first since the beginning of the current parliament's mandate. These were held in October 2017 and in February 2018, a total of 28 partial local elections in four municipalities and in 24 city halls. In these 28 elections GERB registered 24 candidates for mayors, BSP The first conclusion of these figures is that if you want to win elections, you must first register your candidate. In most of these settlements, you don't have a candidate. The second conclusion is that GERB is the only national party in Bulgaria, located throughout the country's geography, and logically, after GERB has registered candidates, won in eight settlements on the first round, in five from the second, total 13 mayors out of 28. That's it! BSP wins 3, DPS 10. These figures show that in these elections GERB has a comparable result of the result of the parliamentary elections At the same time, there is talk of fear, about mastering the whole country, I think it would have had to be 28 mayors out of 28 if you were right! So there are settlements where people are braver and other settlements where you claim that people are cowardly where they choose GERB. On top of that, these results, although they are not representative, because it is small settlements in most cases, they also respond to the studies of all sociological agencies, including those who openly sympathize with you, namely that GERB leads by public trust. That's why your shock is weird! It shows that even though you've been losing permanent elections for 10 years, you haven't learned to lose with dignity, to analyze why you don't have candidates everywhere. Because that is why GERB is not guilty, why you did not succeed in one place or another. Yes, the differences are small because there are voters. To Galice! You lied about people being written down. That's what you see on the lists. There are several members of the sectional election commission, two or three people. You lied about IMRO being the first to vote in the gypsy neighborhood, and there they have fewer votes than you. You do not make an elementary political analysis that when a candidate of GERB and a candidate of BSP goes to the second round, and the third by vote is a candidate of IMRO Coalition partner of GERB, it is normal for the voters of GERB's coalition partner to support the candidate of GERB, some of them also supported the candidate of BSP, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u41	And DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u42	Because there was no moving of people. For the DPS, thank you for telling me, I'd forget it. The only party that appears as a competitor of the DPS in mixed areas is GERB party, not BSP. You don't have any candidates in there! And I'm going to ask you: who do you support when GERB is going to elections against DPS? GERB or DPS after you didn't raise your candidate there? [[(Replication from SG of DPS to SG of BSP for Bulgaria:]] Because there are Bulgarian citizens living there. By the way, GERB increases its support with every passing choice in these areas because it gives these people a choice and this is absolutely normal. But to say that we are in a coalition with the DPS, given that we appear as their direct competition, because there was neither a candidate in these settlements, nor BSP, and GERB had. What is more important, however, because the attempt to turn Galice into Stalingrad is obviously not going to be successful quite so much, simply the scale is smaller. However, the attempt to suggest that the elections in Bulgaria were falsified because the BSP could not win them is already problematic for the entire political system because it is made by the second political force. The delegation of the electoral process because you cannot win it and gain the trust of the people in a series of elections, not in the elections in Galice, but in the elections in 2017, when there was an elected BSP candidate for president and then in 2017. You again lost the parliamentary elections held by President Radev's caretaker government! Not from Tsenko Chokov! You've lost them, and with a difference! That's the way politics is sometimes lost, it's democracy. Perhaps you are thinking of taking action that will lead you to elections without elections, by blowing up elections, the idea of elections that elections are not fair because we do not win them. It's a very dangerous game, it's a game. By the way, you don't have a candidate in Trun City either. This means that the Trun squad must have joined GERB. [[Arrival in GERB.]] But logic is a little bit like that. To guerrilla go work where there are no elections, there are guerrillas. We won't let that happen. You are in your right, if you see violations, to refer to the competent authorities, you are in your right to refer to the European institutions, if you have felt that you cannot and have no power to deal with the problems yourself. But no one has the right to delegate the elections and to suggest that they have no meaning at all, because they have been important for 30 years Bulgaria has been managed in elections and people are not so inactive. In the last parliamentary elections in Bulgaria voted around 60% of voters. This is one of the high activities in the European Union. This does not mean that there is no interest in this process or in apathy. We tend to listen to your voice. Maybe there's a problem. Maybe there's some technical problem in Galice or whatever, but the generalization: The choices don't solve anything, because that's where they go... Not to mention, I say again, this is also about direct lies that have been refuted in the last two days................................................................................... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, let the court say about Galice, my colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u43	Well, we're waiting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u44	Well, wait! Wait before you announce that the elections in Bulgaria do not matter. We're talking about the court! We will comply with every decision of the court as we have done. You want a cassation if the court decides to have a cassation, we will appear again. The point is, we need to be a lot more responsible. And you be, because you are the second political force in Bulgaria, you have the support of many voters who tend to believe you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There have been problematic choices and situations in which you have participated, but yet we have buried the hatchet and we have said: "Let's go ahead! " I therefore ask you once again: let us be responsible for democracy! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, everyone is free to say from here what they think is best, but we warn you that from now on not three times, once, if you say that the BSP for Bulgaria is lying, we will remind you of the facts! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u47	Mrs. Ninova, to me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u48	Mr. Chairman, the only official liar recognized by the Bulgarian court, Prime Minister, acting... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u49	Mrs. Ninova, please, you're being inappropriate!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u50	... President of the Council of the European Union, is Boyko Metodiev Borisov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u51	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u52	When you say that the BSP for Bulgaria is lying...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u53	You're breaking the rules, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u54	...please stick to the facts and to the decisions of the Bulgarian court, as Mr. Bikov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u55	There are no decisions of the Bulgarian court with such a definition. You've broken the rules! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A few seconds to calm down and we'll move on. Please, Mr. Kirilov, let's continue with the text of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 55, para. The 7th sentence of the second sentence is amended as follows: The remuneration of experts is equal to the remuneration of a judge in a district court. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60c, para. 2 sentence 2 is amended as follows: "The remuneration of experts is equal to the remuneration of a judge in a district court. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! This proposal aims to determine the basic monthly remuneration of experts to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, because at the moment this remuneration has not been determined. It is between the remuneration of a judge from a district court to a judge from a district court. How does the definition work? The designation shall be made by decision of the Head of the Inspectorate. The proposal was not adopted in the Commission with the argument that the head of the Inspector should have a mechanism to encourage or in any way stimulate those who work more and those who do not work should receive less salary. I agree with this when it comes to additional incentives, additional remuneration, but when it comes to basic monthly remuneration, it must be determined, or determined, by any other sign, not subjective sign of the Inspectorate's management. Why am I taking the upper limit? Because these people are doing a huge job of checking the property of all the magistrates of the system. These people who check all incomes, check for possible corruption, for possible violations, should receive the appropriate remuneration because, I have said another time from this tribune that the best anti-corruption measure is a good remuneration for employees in this administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal by the MP Hamid Hamid for amendment to art. 55, para. 7, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 17 against 29, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the next proposal by the National Representative Hamid Hamid for amendment to art. 60c, para. 2 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: for 7, against 32, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u60	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text proposed by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u62	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. First sentence, first sentence, is added to a court of district court or court judge ranked as a district court judge if the President of the district or district court concerned so agrees.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u63	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to introduce you to some of the reasons underlying the proposal made in this Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary under No 854 of 9 May 2018, showing the text of the Order of Art. 94 of the Law on the Judiciary, to be amended in accordance with the Order of Art. 87, providing for the possibility for the President of the Supreme Administrative Court to post judges of the District Court, or a Judge of the District Court with the rank of Judge of the District Court, at the place of a Judge of the Administrative Court who is prevented from acting and cannot be replaced by another Judge of the same Court. The purpose of this Amending and Supplementing Act is to overcome the contradictions between the two provisions. The fact that the administrative courts are a cassation instance of the regional courts on the judicial acts and cases of administrative criminal character in the cases under the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land and so on has not been taken into account. In this respect, it should be noted that in art. 100e, para. 1 of the Judicial Law provides for the possibility of secondment of judges from the district courts and the Specialized Criminal Court. I find that the current version of the quoted norms puts the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court in an uneven position. Last but not least, there is the argument that this will increase the functional capacity of administrative courts and optimize their activities. I would like to make it clear to my colleagues that, in purely technological terms and at the moment, in some of the administrative courts in the country, we have free stats. However, under the current Law on the Judiciary, judges can only be posted to these courts by another administrative court, from another administrative district, which is often simply impossible because there are no judges wishing to be posted from another judicial area. The inconveniences are related to the travel of seconded administrative judges from one place to another, inconveniences of a domestic nature and any other nature. At the same time, there are sufficient qualified judges of the rank of the district or district court in the area concerned who are ready and willing to be posted to an administrative court located in the place where they are currently working. No cases are isolated where the secondment of a judge from another administrative court in a particular case is required, given the inability to form a formation in the courts where there are three or four administrative judges. That's why they have to come from other places. I will list: Pernik, Kyustendil, Vratsa, Silistra, and in cases where, for the same reason, the absence of judges, proceedings in cases are suspended and they are sent to another administrative court. It complicates the process. In this regard, an editorial proposal has been made in the Legal Committee according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 3 to add one text, editorial supplement: "If agreed by the President of the District and Administrative Court. I believe that this should not be accepted. In view of all the above, it is necessary and necessary for legal settlement of the possibility of secondment of district and district judges to administrative courts, which will overcome the conflict between the existing provisions of art. 92, p. 9 in relation to Art. Art. 87 of the Law on the Judiciary and Art. 94 of the same law. There will be greater speed in the delivery of judicial acts, respectively more efficient and administrative justice. I appeal to my fellow Members to support the main text which has been presented for consideration in the National Assembly to drop the text: the President of the District and Administrative Court, which will allow for further interpretation and complexity of the implementation of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I also believe that Mr. Kirilov's proposal by order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should not be supported. I would like to remind you that, in the previous paragraph, we cancelled the item. 9 of art. 93, para. 1 where it was envisaged that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court would be able to post judges in accordance with art. 87. If we accept this addition, which Mr. Kirilov proposes, we should create a situation in which the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court have unfair powers. My next reason to ask colleagues not to support this supplement is that in art. 94, para. 1 Posting shall take place under the terms and conditions of art. 227 of the Law on the Judiciary. There, this text speaks of an opinion, not an agreement. If we introduce here the word 'agreement', we create ambiguity, confusion is it an agreement or is it just an opinion on this assignment? I ask my colleagues not to support Mr. Kirilov's text. To support the main text proposed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u68	Just to clarify, I take the word in the form of a line, Mr. Chairman. Here, both texts have been proposed by me. It is meant to support the main proposal between first and second readings, rather than what was done in the context of the discussion in the second reading in the Commission.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Would you like to use the right to dodge, Mr. Hamid? No. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 24, against 27, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this case, I shall make a procedural proposal on the basis of art. 69, para. 1, t. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be put to the vote on the main proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u71	The offer of an importer.. read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u72	A new § 2 shall be created by the applicant. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 1 sentence first, at the end of the day, is added to the judgment by a district court or a judge of the district court with the rank of a judge of the district court. Only the text in this volume.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the proposal made on the text of the importer for § 2 which has just been presented by the President of the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 86, none, abstention 17. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u74	Paragraph 1 of the report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become the paragraph of the report shall be § 3 shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u75	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 4, and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 86, none, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u76	Paragraph 2 on the report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u77	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 5 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u78	A proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5... in fact § 6: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187, para. 1 sentence first after the words 167, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u79	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u81	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We will not support the proposal of this text and I will explain why. I hope to change your position with this. In 2016 the rules for the attestation of magistrates were changed. These are the rules by which it is assessed whether a person working as a magistrate in the judiciary meets the high moral requirements and has sufficient legal powers to rule. For many professions in legislation there are requirements for those who implement them. There is an annual assessment of their physical qualities and regular judgement. We are now facing texts that give a step back from what was set out in 2016. For the extraordinary attestation, a five-year period is envisaged instead of three years. An inexplicable fiction is predicted that the person, turning 60 years old, becomes an infallible lawyer and the most moral person in the world, and is no longer subject to a testimonial. You have to agree that's not how it's gonna be. For this reason, we will not support the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u83	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 7, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 81 against 8, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u84	Paragraph 4 of the report Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197 the following 1. In para. 5 in the text before t. 1 the words "more than three years' shall be replaced by "5 years'. 2. The creation of para. 7. No periodic attestation of magistrates shall be carried out after 60 years of age.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u85	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 4, which shall become § 8. Vote 98 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u86	Paragraph 5 on the report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 9, and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u88	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u89	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 10. Vote 92 MPs: 78, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u91	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 11, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u92	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." mandatory introductory training of judges, prosecutors and investigators in the initial appointment to the judicial authorities and in the selection of the jury for the first term of office; b) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3 and in it the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the Inspectorates of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be added after the word of the investigators. (c) create a t. 4. "4." e-Learning and organizes the study and analysis of practices in the field of justice. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The National Institute of Justice shall carry out the maintenance and improvement of the qualification through training activities and other persons when entrusted with this by law or act of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u93	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8, which shall become § 12. Dear colleagues, we have visitors from Simeonovgrad on the eastern balcony. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 95 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u95	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 13. Vote 97 MPs: 97, against and abstention none The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u96	There is a proposal from MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 262 is amended as follows: Art. 262. (1) The lecturers of the National Institute of Justice shall be permanent and temporary. The training of candidates for junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators is carried out by permanent lecturers, but temporary lecturers can also participate in it. (2) Permanent and temporary lecturers at the National Institute of Justice shall be judges, prosecutors and investigators. Temporary lecturers may be scientific assistants in legal sciences and experts in other fields. (3) Judges, prosecutors and investigators elected as permanent lecturers by the Management Board shall be seconded for a period of up to one year by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council on a proposal from the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Justice. The period may be extended annually after assessing the work of the permanent lecturer from the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Justice within a total duration of 5 years. (4) Judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers shall carry out teaching activities as temporary lecturers at the National Institute of Justice and shall develop study materials, self-education resources and publications necessary for the training activities of the National Institute of Justice on the basis of an order issued by the Director of the National Institute of Justice. (5) The order for determining the persons under para. 2, 3 and 4 and their remuneration shall be governed by the internal rules of art. 253, t. 4. (6) In carrying out teaching activities at the National Institute of Justice, temporary lecturers shall enjoy paid service leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u98	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, there is an amendment in the proposed text, which states that temporary lecturers should be scientific assistants in legal science. The opinion I made on the Legal Committee, I'm going to put it in front of you. Anyone who is involved in science and knows the current Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, most likely knows who are the scientific degrees and scientific titles. Under the repealed Law on Scientific Degrees and Scientific Awards, which has acted from 1972 to 2010, there exists the notion of a scientific collaborator. These were individuals working in scientific institutes. If we accept such an amendment, a repealed text must be interpreted in the application of the text. But even that, the lawyers can do it, I think there is another problem. "Science Fellow in Legal Sciences" is likened to a scientific degree, which is a scientific degree, and the scientific degrees that are a doctor and a doctor of sciences are a doctor of sciences. This means that if the person has a scientific degree, he is not a doctor of sciences but does not possess the scientific degree, that is to say he does not currently work at a scientific institute or at a university, but holds a higher degree than a doctor of sciences, he will not be able to be a temporary lecturer, which is a nonsense because he is a doctor of the sciences of legal sciences and he has demonstrated that he has a higher degree than a doctor of law. The law doctor is enough for the assistant, respectively, for a research associate. You are currently entering a text with which a person with higher legal qualifications will not be able to be a temporary lecturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14. Vote 96 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u100	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 10. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 15: § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 299 is created a new para. 4. The Minister of Justice by order under para. 1 can schedule an exam more often than twice a year when the applications for an exam are more than 200 and the intern-surgeons meet the requirements for admission to an exam.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, students and heads of the Second Primary School are visiting the parliament. They're on the east balcony, please say hello. [[Applause.]] I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission on the text of § 10, which shall become § 15. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u103	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u104	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 340a: Art. 340a. (1) A person may be appointed as a judicial officer who: 1. is a Bulgarian citizen, citizen of another Member State of the European Union, of another State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. is of age; 3. is not placed under an obstacle; 4. has not been convicted of imprisonment for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. shall not be deprived of an appropriate order of the right to hold a particular position; 6. meet the minimum requirements for a degree of completed education and rank or professional experience, as well as the specific requirements laid down in the regulations for taking up the respective position. (2) An official may not be appointed as a judicial officer who: 1. would be in a hierarchical relationship of guidance and control with a husband or wife, with a person with whom he is in actual cohabitation, with a straight line with no restrictions, on a boardline to the fourth degree including or by matchmaking to the fourth degree including; 2. is a sole trader, unlimited liability partner in a trading company, manager, sales agent, sales representative, prosecutor, trading intermediary, liquidator or trade union, member of a management body or control body of a trading company or cooperative; 3. is a councillor at the municipal council; 4. hold a leadership or control position in a political party; 5. working in employment with another employer, except as a teacher at a university; 6. is a lawyer, a notary, a private court contractor or another freelance profession. (3) Only persons with higher education may be appointed to managerial and expert posts. (4) Where any of the grounds for inadmissibility under para. 2, the judicial officer shall be obliged to notify the employer within 7 days. (5) The employment relationship with the judicial officer shall be terminated without notice at: 1. occurrence of an obstacle under para. 1; 2. incompatibility by para. 2; when incompatibility is under para. 2, p. 1, the employment relationship shall be terminated with one of the two employees at the discretion of the employer; 3. failure to comply with the obligation under para. 4. (6) The employer may terminate the employment relationship without notice with the judicial officer who has received the lowest possible annual assessment of the performance of the post within one month of receipt of the final assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 12, which shall become § 17. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u106	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 13. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 343a: Art. 343a. Upon taking up his duties as well as every year until 15 May, the judicial officer shall be obliged to submit to the employer a declaration of property and interests under art. 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 13, which shall become § 18. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u108	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 14. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 19, as in para. 4 words are deleted with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 19 with the correction of the text in para. 4 which is proposed by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u110	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 20, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u112	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer for the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for §16 which shall become § 21. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u116	There is a proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph which will become § 22. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The procedures for extraordinary attestations which began until the entry into force of this law in connection with announced competitions for promotion or relocation, as well as for the election of administrative directors in the judicial authorities, shall be completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u117	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 22 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 85, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u118	Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. 62, 2016; Dop., No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Paragraph 206 of the Transitional and Final 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. 3 the words in the new order shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second:. The periodical attestations held until the entry into force of this law shall be regarded as attestations within the meaning of art. 196, t. 3, after the acquired status of inalienability, regardless of the order of its acquisition. And if you'll allow a technical editing. Paragraph 17 to be moved before the "Transitional and final provisions' and to be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u119	Paragraph 17 actually becomes § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u120	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u121	However, it moved before "Transitional and final provisions". Okay. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The investigation of magistrates working in the judiciary is the only way, the only legal way, all discontent in society, directed against a particular magistrate or against the entire judiciary, to find a lawful solution. That's the way it is. When it comes to talking: the justice system is some kind of a system, the judicial system is a part of personalities and the discontent is always against specific people with signals and complaints. The only logical possibility for a person working in the judiciary to get an assessment that he is failing, that it is not good, that his work is burdening the public is not to receive a periodic attestation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u123	Excuse me, Mr. Milkov. Colleagues, please be quiet! We cannot hear the argument of the speaker. Please continue, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u124	With the adoption of this text today, you are returning the law from before 2016, when the new order for the attestation of persons in the judiciary is introduced, without saying this thing without stating exactly what is being done and serving interests that previously existed. The new order of attestations sets new requirements. And in order for the persons in the judicial system to be judged whether they correspond to them, it is envisaged that they be tested in the new order. This is envisaged in the event that they participate in a competition where a person has also been tested in the new order, that this is a reason and that the acting magistrate should also be tested, his work. I do not agree with a magistrate who has been tested in the old order to assume that it is equivalent to an attestation in the new order, as proposed to drop the words in para. 3 in the new order. And making noise, I can't understand, don't you realize the importance of the moment? We cannot support the amendment of § 206 and the return of the right two years back. We believe that it should not only be maintained, but increased the attestation of the judiciary officers, whether judges, prosecutors or investigators. Because by shutting down the justice system... Initially under the rules of admission in the judiciary could be in competition 20 percent external lawyers, were reduced to 10. In the rules of secondment, we assume that the judicial system is only re-routed internally from already working. You get a closed lake where the water only moves inside, and the only way to clean it is with the attestation system. Right now, with the simple vote, you're going back two years! That's why we can't support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u126	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is by realizing the importance of the moment, as my colleague Milkov put it, that I will invite you to support the proposal, just as it is supported by the Commission, which we have done together with my colleague Alexandrova, and I recall the reasons with which this proposal was made. The purpose of the proposed supplement is in § 206. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Authority. The changes since the summer of 2016 more popular are to exclude any doubts and ambiguities in the current version of the lawmaker's will to respect the detailed and accepted complex assessments of periodic attestations made to legislative changes since August 2016. It is unacceptable to ignore the legitimate coverage of the results of the work of appointed judges, prosecutors and investigators who worked before the changes in the Law on the judiciary and continue to work after these changes. The general and specific criteria for assessing magistrates in the old and new order remained essentially unchanged. The same lack of material change also refers to the indicators of the factual data and circumstances that fill the content of those criteria. There have been no significant changes in the public relations subject to regulation in the Law on the Judiciary, which would require a change in the overall reorganization of the Institute of Attestation. Therefore, the purpose of the change should be to establish and validate, under the law, the continuity in the activities of the judicial authority, irrespective of its personnel, who carried out the attestation in that previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u128	Mr. Mitev, I read the text: "Judge, prosecutor or investigator appointed until the entry into force of this law is not periodically tested after receiving the new order of two consecutive positive complex assessments. " - What does this mean, colleagues? This means that the current magistrates are tested twice periodically, which is every five years, i.e. they are in terrible danger of their work being evaluated for 10 years! Adopting the text now will accept the attestations that have acted in the front row, and if they have two, they are not subject to an attestation. That is why I told you that the attestation is the only legal way to resolve the matter with a person who receives a negative assessment of his work. And in order not to be this negative assessment only spoken publicly and burdening society to clean up the system, it works with an attestation. That's why I'm making a line for you, because by taking out the new order, we remove the option of acting magistrates to be twice periodically tested every five years, that is, 10. It's nothing scary. For many other professions, individuals also prove periodically that they meet the requirements to meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u129	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other lines? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u130	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Milkov! I can't agree with you. Firstly, I reiterate that the assessment criteria are essentially unchanged in both the old and the new order. Secondly, yes, the attestation is an important mechanism for this self-cleaning of the judiciary, which you are talking about, which is what the public wants, and we want, but it is not the only way. This is where the powers of the Inspectorate come in. Let us not forget the complaints that each and every one of us, every Bulgarian citizen can and should address to the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council when it finds it illegal activity, or the activity of a magistrate in violation of professional laws. Furthermore, let us not forget the powers of the Supreme Judicial Council, including the imposition of penalties on magistrates as a result of specific complaints, whether by MPs or by citizens, for having committed relevant violations of this magistrate. Disciplinary proceedings can be initiated, and much more adequately and much more quickly the judicial system would be cleared as a result of similar procedures and the use of these and now existing powers and capabilities of the Supreme Judicial Council and its two co-workers would rather than wait for the testimonial, no matter how old. And every year we do the affidavit, it's not a guarantee that the justice system will be cleared of those magistrates who stain her name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order for there to be no doubt about what we are commenting on in the present case, I would like to challenge the false ones who are insinuating to fellow Members of the National Assembly. Firstly, I stress that the provision is in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Judiciary, and it concerns the timely application of the rules on attestations and is the result of a practical problem which has arisen in relation to respect for the old order in relation to the new order. I will read the whole § 206, I say again, so there will be no doubt and no concern. Paragraph 206 is out of the question. 1. This is the first proposal. That leaves Al. 2. So I'm going to read: Al. 2. Until entry into force of the ordinance under art. 209b attestations are carried out in the current order. The procedures laid down until the date of entry into force of the Ordinance shall be completed in accordance with the procedure in which they have been initiated. Alinea 3, where the changes are, please take them carefully: Al. 3.Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator appointed until the entry into force of this law shall not be applied periodically after receiving two consecutive positive complex assessments under art. 196, t. 3. Second sentence: "Periodic attestations held until the entry into force of this law shall be regarded as attestations within the meaning of art. 196, t. 3 after acquired status of non-changeability, regardless of the order of its acquisition. I stress, my fellow Members, that, as my colleague Mitev pointed out, by replicating the motives of this proposal, the attestations under this law and in the previous order contain similar criteria, that is to say, there is no reason for particular concern in terms of order. But worry arises in which order is applied. For this reason, we have found that the old attestations are respected if they have been carried out after the five years during which the magistrate has obtained his status of incompetence. I do not wish to design this understanding that one way or another returns a previous order, this is not true.... is definitely not true. And since I am an importer, I was the importer and rapporteur of the so-called previous order, I declare it to you at your attention this circumstance. I call on Members of Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u133	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kirilov, everything you have said about order is true, but the concerns that have arisen and remain are not for order, but for the time when, according to the current and with what I have explained to you, the magistrates will be subject to five more years of attestations regardless of order. They will twice periodically be subject to attestations of all their work, whether an alert, a complaint or anything. In this case, in which we now vote, order would be the same. We remove the text in which the attestations received will remain effective, and the magistrates will not be tested twice more for ten years to be monitored twice. This is the dispute and concern that has arisen in me and my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u135	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u136	In my duplicate I will emphasize a more careful reading of the concept of two consecutive positive complex assessments under art. 196, t. 3.................................................................................. These are the cases where in fact, for a 10-year period, good faith, compliance with professional and legal requirements by magistrates has been established. It is unlikely that a sharp, irreversible change will occur after these 10 years in order to automatically assert the consequences that colleague Milkov says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17, which shall become § 23, with the proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova to move the text of this paragraph before Transitional and Final Provisions with the corresponding numbering. Vote 94 MPs: 79 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u138	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 24. Please, Paragraph 18, in the same way, be moved before Transitional and Final Provisions and renumber them accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u139	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the test of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 24, with the proposal that the text of the new § 24 be outside the transitional and final provisions with the corresponding change in the numbering of the paragraphs. 86 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u140	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 19 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u141	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 19. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With this, we concluded the second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u142	Dear colleagues, we're going to start work. Please take your seats. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedure for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u144	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tsipov to the Chamber. Please continue with the contents of the report, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u145	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018. At its regular meeting held on 16 May 2018, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Kasabov. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior were imposed by the practical need to implement the principle of mobility in the implementation of the public service in the structures of the sector. The main objective of the bill is to align the regulation for appointment from one to another security service or for the protection of public order when the employee has been trained and has signed a corresponding contract at the institution's admission to serve for a certain period in the Ministry of Interior. The Bill provides for when students at the Ministry of Interior Academy, interns at the vocational training centers of the Academy, working on their own will, terminate their service and within three months after termination are appointed as civil servants in the security and public order services or in other departments and institutions implementing the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act on the State Service, they do not owe reimbursement of the costs of training and maintenance which are not reimbursed by the host country. Similar changes to the Law on State Agency are also proposed. The National Security Act and the National Security Service Act. A preliminary impact assessment has also been applied to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law. The proposal is not expected to lead to economic, social and other public expenditure. Opinions have been received by the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency "National Security" which generally support the bill. There is also an opinion from the National Security Service that offers a new version of § 3 of the Bill in order to achieve the objective of a complete and systematic settlement of the matter relating to the National Security Service. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Georgi Andreev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Pencho Milkov took part in the debates, who expressed their opinion in the so proposed legal opportunity for the mobility of civil servants in the sector, to provide for restrictive criteria that would not lead to the turnover of the personnel from the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov pointed out that the norms in the Bill aim to protect national security more effectively and guarantee highly qualified specialists to develop careers. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u146	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Report of the Commission for Control of the Services. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018. At its extraordinary meeting held on 29 May 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act No 854-01-32, submitted on 3 May 2018 by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior; Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Chief Jurissult at the Ministry of Interior; Major General Dancho Djakov, Head of the National Security Service; Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Directorate at the Ministry of Defence; Mrs. Nadezhda Kitanova, Inspector at the State Agency. The bill was presented on behalf of the importer by the National Representative Christian Mitev. He pointed out that the proposed amendment and supplement of the Ministry of Interior Act aims to create the possibility of mobility of civil servants working in the structures of the sector. The changes relate to the uniformisation of the regulation for appointment from one to another security service or public policy office and reimbursement of the costs of training and maintenance. The Bill proposes amendments to the Law on State Agency "National Security" and the National Security Service Act, which are related to the real implementation of the principle of mobility of civil servants in the sector. A preliminary impact assessment according to which no administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regime and fees are required has also been applied to the Bill. The cost-benefit analysis shows that the implementation of the Bill will not have a negative effect on the state budget. In relation to the bill, opinions were received. The MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Veselin Mareshki and Philip Popov took part in a discussion on the bill. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with a result of 3 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u148	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Following the opinion of the importer. Here you go, Mr. Yachev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u149	Thank you, Madam President. The proposed amendments and additions to the Ministry of Interior Act aim at creating the possibility of mobility of civil servants working in the structures of the sector. The amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act of 2015 and 2016 set out the legal possibility for the mobility of civil servants working in the various structures by adopting provisions in accordance with which procedures for the transition from one structure to another were provided for, including through the conclusion of an agreement between the employee and the heads of the relevant structures. The main objective of the proposed bill is to align the regulation of appointments from one to another security service or public order service when the employee has been trained, for example, at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, has entered into a service contract for a specified period, then passes to another service subject to certain requirements of the legislation in force. Article 172 and Article 172 173 of the Ministry of Interior Act provides that students who have completed regular training at the Ministry of Interior Academy are required to serve at the Ministry of Interior for a period of not less than 10 years, on the basis of a contract signed upon their acceptance for training with the Ministry and interns undertake to serve at the Ministry of Interior no less than five years after completion of the training, of which at least three years in the structure for which they applied, on the basis of a contract signed at the beginning of their training with the Minister of Interior. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 of the Law settles the assumptions in which students at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, interns at the centers of initial professional training at the Academy and civil servants, owe reimbursement of the costs of training and maintenance when they are terminated of their own will and after a disciplinary penalty imposed. The same text provides that these costs are not reimbursed by civil servants when their service is terminated at their request and within one month after their termination they are appointed as civil servants in the security services or public order or in other departments and institutions to which the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act apply. However, in these cases costs shall be reimbursed from the corresponding structure in which the civil servant is appointed. The existence of such norms only in the Ministry of Interior Act is an obstacle to the implementation of the established principle of mobility in the state structure in the sector "Secure" which is why it is proposed to drop out, as training at the Ministry of Interior Academy should not be an obstacle to the career development of the civil servant in similar structures. The respective changes with identical content in the Law on the State Agency of National Security and the Law on National Service of Security are also proposed in order to regulate in an identical way the passage from one structure to another without having obligations for the host structure to reimburse the costs of the newly appointed employee who has received his education or professional training at the educational establishment of the sending body. In conclusion, I would like to say, fellow Members, that our bill has received support and an opinion from all the bodies concerned, and between first and second readings we are ready to comply with all the proposals made that comply with the spirit of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u150	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. I'm opening the debate. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! Today our attention is presented by a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of............................................................................................ In this way, so good a reason to change the Law, unfortunately, behind it there are a number of dangers. What is relied on in the texts that are offered to us actually enables the circulation of footage inside the system, which, to date, is not hidden by the Ministry of Interior, and the services have a small personnel shortage. However, what I read between the lines leads to one conclusion. This is yet another bill, the aim of which is to bleed out the Ministry of Interior, to actually turn it into this non-working structure, to which the current majority is aimed, by giving examples of the already adopted Private Security Act, projects of the Law on the Amendment of Local Self-government and Local Administration, where armies of municipal security guards and in the legal part of the Security Officers are literally being created, and now with the proposed texts, the following thing is being done. In practice, it violates this strict hierarchy, which exists in the Ministry of Interior, on which graduates of the Ministry of Interior Academy, whether interns or interns, will no longer have the commitment to stay and serve this term, which is provided for them by contract and by law. And not only that, but they will not owe those amounts, which are now provided for them as a penalty for non-compliance with this deadline. Dear colleagues, you know very well, I said it a little while ago that the Ministry of Interior is a very strictly hierarchical structure. It is no secret to anyone that to date there are a bunch of unoccupied places because of their unattractiveness and the difficulty of the service being carried. With this law, we are practically opening a wide door to increasing precisely these unoccupied places for internal migration of employees from one office to another.. anyone who has found a more suitable place to go, to reroute there. Dear colleagues, the idea for the ministry in the Ministry of Interior is to serve in a way defined in the Law and to serve for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens, regardless of where they are placed, because it is so judged and this service should be carried. Opening this door, we open Pandora's box. The benefits of this law will be much less than the negatives we will witness. Rather, the approach in this direction should be to look for footage, to prepare staff that can occupy the necessary places, rather than to relax one or another in a particular direction and to open unoccupied places, for example, in small settlements, in services where employees do not wish to serve for one reason or another. We should motivate them perhaps with better pay, with better motivation, and not let them move freely. I am rather concerned that this law, which brings me to mind, is that, by any chance, colleagues of Patriots, making this law for someone, is yet another law for man, not for some radical and serious change in favor of the Ministry of Interior. Colleagues, if you want to move someone to a better service and you're worried that he has to pay his tuition fee at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, then collect money and pay them off, damn it. This law at the moment, again, is about to give another exsanguination to the Ministry of Interior. It's a bad law, colleagues. But since there is also a hint of rationality in it, for now our group will refrain from supporting this bill and I hope common sense will prevail between first and second reading and change the texts in a direction where the right balance can be found between the need for personnel in certain services in the security system of the country and the danger of bleeding out of these services, because, again, this will result in the turnover of personnel in places where there is an extreme need to occupy these places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Kulkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the reasons for the amendment and supplement bill tabled, it is written that the existence of the proposed rule for annulment only in the Ministry of Interior Act is an obstacle to the implementation of the established principle of mobility in the public service in the structures of the sector. I believe that the argument put forward by importers is untenable. The financial burden arising from the receiving structures under para. 5, would not be an obstacle to the career development of the civil servant, since the need for personnel for these offices is certainly more important and would prevail in cases where the relevant employees should be appointed despite the obligation under para. 5. It is more important that this bill is not relevant to the employees of the Offices of Military Information..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The majority of these employees are soldiers and their status is governed in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus proposed, the Bill partially solves the problem of two of the security services, while the rest remain outside the scope of the current changes. I call on the importers to withdraw the Bill, to carefully refine the texts in order for the Law to be operational and useful, and not to create confusion and cause for separation between different structures in the security system. The in haste to enter this bill in plenary for this week alone represents the full weakness of the ruling coalition and the lack of clear, precise and concrete legislative initiatives to solve the many ill-fated problems of any nature. And even the amendments between first and second readings could not remove these misunderstandings. This is a sufficient reason for us from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to not support the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-30.u154	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018. They voted 106 MPs: for 80, against 3, abstention 23. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill. That's what we're done with for the day. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
