ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month, so the program is formed on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 1. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups this week, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group is the first to vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importers: Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, submitted on 21 September 2017. Following are the parliamentary group of the European Commission, of which there is no proposal. 2. Third is the proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB - Second vote on the Draft Law on the European Investigation Order. Importer: Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017, adopted at first vote on 7 December 2017. 3. Next is a proposal from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and the Law for Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 November 2017 Next is the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. There is no proposal. As the fourth point, we continue with the programme that we need to vote on: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017. Adopted in first vote on 25 January 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Exporters: Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2017 6. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Academy. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018. 7. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2017. Adopted in first vote on 11 January 2018. 8. Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on State Fees. Importers: Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 22 November 2017. Adopted at first vote on 11 January 2018. 9. Second vote on the bill amending the Social Assistance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. Adopted in first vote on 24 January 2018. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of surface transport services for the provision of activities of the armed forces. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. 12. Second vote on the European Investigation Order bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017. Adopted in first vote on 7 December 2017. 13. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers: Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on 26 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 17 January 2018. 14. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 138 against 19, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it, because for another week, bills that concern the agenda of the public are not on the agenda of the National Assembly. I strongly object to the work of the Legal Commission, as if today only one bill is to be seen, provided that the BSP has introduced specific bills concerning domestic violence, this refusal of the President of the Commission to us is incomprehensible. The bill we have tabled, notice, on January 18th, concerns changes to the Penal Code, where the deliberate cause of moderate bodily injury goes to a common crime, and will indeed give great opportunity and protection to victims of domestic violence. Unfortunately, the MPs from GERB do not want to see in committee bills that will solve these problems. Yes, there is talk of protection of the Istanbul Convention, apparently the social gender is one of GERB's priorities, but it is important for us to protect victims from domestic violence. Not only this bill, but also the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence will enable these victims to receive the necessary protection from the state. Therefore, we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are strongly objecting to this agenda and let the President of the Legal Commission really look at specific bills, which will lead to concrete results, even more so is the agenda of the Bulgarian society. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking the floor by procedure because the opposition colleague's statement was inadmissible under the Rules of Procedure - there is no negative vote on the weekly programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u5	How could there not be?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u6	In essence, I would like to point out the following, as it is again about manipulation and delusion of both colleagues in this Chamber and the audience. Colleague Stoynev, the Penal Code that you have imported, and you believe that you are solving some question, is of a standard of non-serious attitude towards matter. You should have done a serious analysis regarding the possible necessary changes to the Penal Code. That's why there's a program developed by the Justice Department, and it's not gonna get that light. The application of the Istanbul Convention is simply not going to take place so lightly with a single norm to become domestic violence of a private nature. What is the essential reason? Let the House know that. Seven bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code we have, on which we expect opinions. Since this is a Criminal Code, we expect opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation. Criminal College, the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, and the Bill you comment and quote has not even passed the one-month term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We're moving on. We have a proposal made under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP): as a point in the Programme of the National Assembly for the period 7 February 2018 to include the First Voting of the Old People's Bill, No 754 01 47/26 July 2017, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The proposal was made by Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to justify your proposal within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure we have made a written proposal to include a point in the forthcoming program of the National Assembly. I now take the floor to motivate this action of mine and my fellow Members and to persuade the honourable Members to support our proposal. The bill was submitted on 26 July 2017, allocated to six parliamentary committees, leading the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. There are reports from four committees, including the lead committee. There are 11 opinions deposited, including by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, so there are no formal obstacles to examining the Old People's Bill and to aged it for more than six months in the Ministry of Justice. Now for its importance. This is a long-awaited Bill of nearly two million Bulgarians, of nearly 30% of the people in Bulgaria, because that is how many people over 60 years in Bulgaria are. Everyone in this room must be convinced that the support of people throughout their life cycle is one of the main objectives of social policy in the country. This law is necessary not only to overcome social differences, inequality and situations of social exclusion, which undoubtedly exist in our society, but is a legislative act that will enable the Bulgarians to live their old age, supported by personal and social assistants, by social workers and medical staff. It is also a Law for those who, although coping on their own in life, need active social life, have the opportunity to continue to develop as individuals, even though they are no longer actively involved in working life. Last but not least, elderly people and mostly pensioners also need the instruments of social inclusion policy through which they feel part of society, enjoy all social rights and have access to all the goods arising from the country's economic growth. However, this is not possible if pensioners are isolated from development processes in different areas of social life. Elderly people have the potential to be encouraged to enjoy. I expect the honourable MPs to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in the Programme of the newly read bill and the proposed proposal. They voted 173 MPs: 82, against 7, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. We move on to billings and draft decisions from 31 January 2018 to 6 February 2018: A proposal from MPs for the production of a national referendum with a question:............................................................................................................................................................ Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the additional expenditure/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 10 May 2017 to 31 January 2018. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. A bill to supplement the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory deposit of printed works and other works. Importers are Delyan Peevski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 2 February 2018 a Decree No 25 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law on sowing and planting material adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2018 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Agriculture and Food to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. At its regular meeting held on 28 November 2017, the Committee on Budget and Finance in implementation of art. 25, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly elected Mrs. Dora Stoyanova Hristova as a member of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability. This was imposed because of the release of Ms. Krastina Nikolova Taskova as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the subcommittee and the election of Mrs. Dora Stoyanova Hristova as a member of the same committee. The decision of the National Assembly was adopted on 22 November 2017. The importer is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 2 February 2018, an Annual Report on the state of health of citizens and the implementation of the National Health Strategy 2020 was received by the Ministry of Health in the National Assembly for 2016. The report was made available to the Committee on Health and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report containing an analysis of the produced elections for the period 2015 - 2017 and a proposal for improvement of the electoral legislation, according to art. 57, para. 1, t. 47 of the Election Code adopted by Protocol Decision of 6 February 2018 of the Central Election Commission. The report is sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to all parliamentary groups and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u10	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, and I strongly object in the way in which you gave colleague Kirilov the opportunity in a procedure to practically make a reply and discuss our draft law in essence. You know that the accompanying draft opinions, firstly, are not a mandatory part of the bill, but also the members of the committee concerned can subsequently express their views on the substance of the bill in plenary. Please, therefore, let us not exercise the Rules of Procedure in a coup d'état in this case, because my colleague Kirilov, in a procedure, unknown what, it was not obvious in the manner of conduct, in fact expressed his opinion on the substance of a bill tabled by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I gave Mr. Kirilov the opportunity to explain why your bills did not find a seat in the Commission. They are within the two-month term of the Rules of Procedure, so there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! In connection with Decision No 2 of 30 January 2018 on Constitutional Case No 8 of 2017, without exercising fixation in anyone, and with faith in the right of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I call on you, Madam President, to remove the citizen, in this capacity, Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and loud noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. The Constitutional Court's decision does not affect Delyan Dobrev's status as MP, but in practice confirms that such a legal case does not exist at present. At present, there is no valid resignation of the National Assembly on which the National Assembly is to rule. I have no reason to remove Mr. Dobrev. He's a full-fledged MP. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Mr. Kirilov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, thank you for giving any answer to another abuse of the Rules of Procedure. These are ineligible statements which are inadmissible for those who do not have any legal basis. These allegations violate the ethical status of the Members of the National Assembly, directly violate the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, from today we have developed a form in which we will only fill in the name of the Member of the National Assembly, who is carrying out the specific infringement, we will send a signal to the Committee on Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. I ask that my present statement also be taken as a referral to this committee for violation of the Rules of Procedure, for violation of the ethics of the National Assembly and for taking a punishment against the violation of the Rules. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Personal explanation, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u16	Dear Madam President, my red tie experiment today is even redder.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u17	That's not red! Look what red means! [[Shows his tie.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u18	The final result is that the colleagues on the left, when they see red, if they don't wear it by a colleague, they're all red here, but in our group, it's just me, they react like a bull to red. Either that or they are dissatisfied with the agreement reached yesterday in the Prime Minister's cabinet for additional energy reforms. Perhaps they feel vulnerable and the way these reforms do not happen is if they somehow manage to remove me from the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My reason for asking the word for a procedure is that you should not allow, even in procedural statements, individual bodies and committees of the National Assembly to be involved as a means of resolving disputes between MPs. There is no reason to allow the Committee on Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics to be involved in such situations. My request is that when such attempts are made to use the National Assembly's committees as criminal authorities, we all understand that it is a deformed mind of the person who makes such a proposal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u21	On the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-62, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN CIVILITY. You are welcome to present the bill, Mr. Ahmedov, an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is short. Our motives are short, too, but the goal we pursue with this bill is great. The proposed changes aim to end a number of discriminatory practices prohibited by the European Convention on Citizenship and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and to create legal practices consistent with democratic principles and rules, taking into account the existing political and legal relationship between the persons and the Bulgarian state, preserving the Bulgarian self-consciousness, of the Bulgarian communities, as a whole the communities abroad, which relate to Bulgaria and the Bulgarian land, as well as the relief of the administrative burden on the persons who have declared a desire to obtain Bulgarian citizenship. Bulgarian citizenship is governed by the Constitution, it is also governed by law, but it is settled as citizenship as a legal instrument and finds a worthy place in a number of European and international documents and contracts. Therefore, all issues relating to alignment with international acts of a higher degree, as well as the government's proclamation of an administrative burden relief policy, must find their legal solution. The Bill seeks a solution for some demographic policies of the state. To all those who will suspect conspiracy objectives not suspected by us, I will say that the Bill does not affect the right and the ability of the state to carry out its checks and investigations on a professional basis in view of national security. As a last but not least, I would point out that everyone who carries Bulgaria in their heart has the right in democratic order to restore or create a legal relationship with the state. This bill meets this need. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. We have no reports from the Commission, but as far as I know, there are opinions. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of "United patriots" will not support this bill. We fully share the opinion expressed by the Ministry of Justice, which is stressed negative. In order to be able to form your opinion on the Bill, I will introduce you to him. The Ministry of Justice shall express the following opinion. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Law introduces an explicit prohibition on non-discrimination in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization. The principle of equality of citizens before the Law is laid down in the provision of art. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution, which lists in detail the signs of the absence of privileges or restriction of the rights of citizens. Protection against all forms of discrimination and ensuring equality before the Law is equality in treatment and in the opportunities for participation in public life, as well as ensuring effective protection against discrimination are regulated in the Law on Protection against Discrimination. In view of the principle of direct action of constitutional rules and the general framework of nondiscrimination in that law, we believe that there is no need to settle a prohibition on discrimination in each individual law, including in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, that is to say, paragraphs 1 and 2 are completely unnecessary. They were introduced a long time ago with the adoption of the Bulgarian Constitution in Bulgarian law and confirmed by the Law on Protection against Discrimination. § 3 proposes a change on the basis of the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization under art. 15, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law, namely the existing reason for the parent to be a Bulgarian citizen or to have died as a Bulgarian citizen, is replaced by the presence of an ascending Bulgarian citizen or died as a Bulgarian citizen. The Ministry of Justice believes that this is an unlimited extension of the circle of the ascending Bulgarian citizens, the candidates for Bulgarian citizenship, who will be able to acquire citizenship provided for in the provision of art. 15 "Sealed order excluding the existence of the conditions under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Law, without giving specific reasons for this to the Bill. That is, in this part, the bill does not meet the requirements of our Rules of Procedure. Paragraphs 4 and 5 shall propose the removal of the provision of art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law requiring permission for permanent or long-term residence in the Republic of Bulgaria not less than three years from the date of the application for the recovery of Bulgarian citizenship and the removal of the provision of para. 2 of the same art. 26, excluding the existence of this requirement for persons of Bulgarian origin. In this way the conditions for the restoration of Bulgarian citizenship from candidates of Bulgarian and non-Bulgarian origin are aligned. The presence of a permit for permanent or long-term residence in the Republic of Bulgaria for a certain period of time before the application for naturalization is laid down as a condition for applicants for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in all provisions of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. An exception is provided for persons with refugee or asylum status, humanitarian status, stateless persons and persons of Bulgarian origin. The pledge of a condition for the existence of permanent or long-term residence in the Republic of Bulgaria and to the candidates for the restoration of Bulgarian citizenship is marked by the fact that the majority of these people have been exempt from Bulgarian citizenship and have lived abroad for many years, which is why they have lost their relationship with the Bulgarian state. The Ministry of Justice considers that the condition existing in the Law for the existence of permanent or long-term residence in the country for the restoration of Bulgarian citizenship in the naturalization of non-Bulgarian people should be maintained. In accordance with the provision of art. 25, para. 2 of the Constitution providing for Bulgarian citizens to acquire Bulgarian citizenship in a light order, the existing conditions for the restoration of Bulgarian citizenship for Bulgarian people of Bulgarian origin should be maintained, excluding the existence of a permit for permanent or long-term residence in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is clear from the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that unfortunately, colleagues from the DPS once again use their legislative initiative to make themselves an inexpensive political PR, so that they can activate their increasingly diminishing electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there anyone who wants a line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill of importers is extremely controversial at any point. I'll be brief and try to motivate the comments I have. The first, a proposal being made to change art. 15, para. 1, t. 3 envisions foreigners to apply for Bulgarian citizenship if they have an ascending Bulgarian citizen. The verb is used, which is in the present time. It means that this man is alive and is a Bulgarian citizen. If this is given the meaning of the proposal, it becomes completely unnecessary, because this is what the current law provides for "if you have an ascending parent, a Bulgarian citizen, such persons have no problems to acquire Bulgarian citizenship under the current legislation. If you mean that the person had Bulgarian citizenship, the ascendant, the foreigner, had Bulgarian citizenship, but you do not say that, and that is what you mean because the proposed changes concern the expatriates in Turkey, then you are in grave conflict with other norms of the Law and with the Constitution. Because the expatriates in the Republic of Turkey, based on agreements between Bulgaria and Turkey, do not include the so-called "large trip" because they did not lose their Bulgarian citizenship, they lost their Bulgarian citizenship from the old expatriate agreements, on the basis of contracts between Bulgaria and Turkey and have no right to restore it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u27	Come on, how could they not be?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u28	This is recorded in art. 27 of the current law, which says: "Citizenship of a person deprived of Bulgarian citizenship can be restored if it is found that there was no grounds for deprivation or if the reason has lost its meaning. Neither the exodus agreements between Bulgaria and Turkey nor the decrees of the State Council of the People's Republic of Bulgaria have lost their meaning. The agreements between Bulgaria and Turkey, based on the Angora Treaty, are international treaties with force and neither Bulgaria nor Turkey has denounced them. That is, you are trying to circumvent the ban on a more privileged recovery regime and are trying to pass these people through the naturalization regime. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 26, which regulates that the citizenship of a person, freed from the Bulgarians, here is no longer deprived, but the citizenship of Bulgarian citizenship, is also contrary to what you propose. Because § 4 of the same law is restored for Bulgarian citizenship, which already treats the persons who are exempt from Bulgarian citizenship, says: "The Bulgarian citizenship of Bulgarian citizens, free from Bulgarian citizenship, is restored without making a request for it and have moved to countries with which Bulgaria has not concluded an exodus. With which Bulgaria has not concluded an expatriation service! But with the Republic of Turkey, such an agreement has been concluded. One more thing. The expatriates under these agreements, if your text is interpreted directly, have two hypotheses. In the case of one, if the expatriate died as a Bulgarian citizen. However, they did not die as Bulgarian citizens, but as citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, their heirs cannot draw rights that their successor simply does not possess. It is obvious that in this way it is intended to make entitled between one and two million foreign citizens who acquire the rights to take Bulgarian citizenship. But Bulgaria has such agreements not only with the Republic of Turkey, but also with Greece: these are the agreements Mollov "Kaffandaris," Kalfa "philitis," but similar agreements with Romania, which means that you offer, but in complete violation of the laws in force and with international treaties, these foreigners get Bulgarian citizenship only because one of their ascending citizens once had Bulgarian citizenship. In our view, due to these contradictions with the rules in force in the Law and with the international agreements, the bill cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Vangelov, it has become clear from your speech that you have not read at all what we are proposing. [[Noise and lines in "United Patriarchs."]] Dear Mr. Vangelov, there is an ascending Bulgarian citizen or died as a Bulgarian citizen. He doesn't write anything, but he's either freed or deprived. Read, read, colleagues, this will help you a lot in your work! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Another line? I can't see. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Vangelov? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u32	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Very often from this tribune, I have to call upon the College to say that the King is naked and true. I won't think about the case studies. Such a draft law, I think, has been discussed twice in the National Assembly and we have spoken on this issue, and we have clarified what the objectives, tasks, aspirations and so on are. It has nothing to do with rights or freedoms and so on. He has only one goal "to restore the rights of Turkish citizens, whose parents were Bulgarian citizens, to receive Bulgarian citizenship, and are descendants of people who voluntarily gave up on him. The expatriates witnessed the three exodus campaigns, voluntarily gave up their homeland and went to their homeland. This happened with an international agreement, legally and there is no reason to make such claims. What's the target? By the way, most of these people, the descendants of the expatriates, don't even know Bulgarian, didn't come to Bulgaria, and practically here arises the actual suspicion of what the goal is. The aim is that, honourable Members, in the next 4 years we will receive in Turkey another million and a half million Bulgarian citizens, in one possible vote to receive a purely Turkish government of the DPS, with which to end the existence of the 200-year-old Bulgarian state. Nothing more! [[Noise and lines in DPS.]] I will immediately remind you that the colleagues from the DPS from this tribune pleaded that the Bulgarian Constitution has declared the Bulgarian nation a political nation that is not true. There's nothing there. This connectivity, because it is known by what ascending line Bulgarian citizenship is being given for the time being, this connectivity lies not at the heart of suspicion, as they say, the conspiracy, but at the actual purpose of getting the dominant, of getting the ethnocultural, geocultural dominant, so that we can be crushed. This thing we're not voting on. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u33	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stanilov, and you haven't read our project. I will read it to you again: There is an ascending Bulgarian citizen or died as a Bulgarian citizen. The law does not treat those who have given up have been deprived of agreements. The law doesn't treat, it doesn't have that range. You read, even though you're a professor, you read a little bit more than your colleague. He suggests that we have proposed an uptick. That's not true. Read the Bill! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Will you take the duplicate, Professor Stanilov? No. Come in for a statement, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u36	Please extend the speaking time of the group of the United Patriarchs. I had an invitation, Mr. Chairman, to alternate the groups. The DPS will speak, of course, but after me. That's their goal, so they let me go, they refuse, but we all need to be clear that this isn't about legal matters. I'm not taking a stand here. Mr. Borisov [[(Laughter, lines:) Who? Boyko Borisov?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] brilliantly exposed things in relation to international treaties, conventions to which we are a party and the legal inability to get what the DPS want. However, the issue is deeply political, it is fundamental, it is existential for us Bulgarians. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we know, from time to time, introduce some typical bills of theirs that in other governments have succeeded. Then, when they were in the triple coalition, when they were ruling, and they reached a higher weight of intolerance for the Bulgarian society on all these issues. This is one of the laws on duty for the DPS, they have introduced it before, which is already crossing the red line of intolerance for us Bulgarians. This is typical of a DPS bill that identifies them as a radical, nationalist, Turkish party in Bulgaria. [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines from DPS.)]] They are constantly speaking against nationalism and patriotism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u37	Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u38	Patriotism and nationalism are the immune system of a society and they are a high achievement of society when it comes to the patriotism and nationalism of a party, in a country, in a society, but when nationalism is foreign to a foreign state, as is the case, it is a cancer formation. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] And that's why we, the United Patriarchs, are patriots and nationalists, because this is the immune system and it is a barrier against cancer. It is clear to everyone that once again what is being done is in the continuation and direction of Turkish policy in the Balkans and around the world for the restoration of the Ottoman Empire and everything is in a clear direction... [[(Descriptions from DPS: "On the topic! ") Loud noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u39	Mr. Shopov, please stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u40	...which as a policy takes place as the fifth column of the DPS, in favor of Ankara. Dear colleagues, the issue is here at the moment for the Bulgarian parties for GERB, for BSP, for Volja.Of course, for the United Patriarchs, once again as one to stand against these foreign fillings, to bar this Turkish policy in Bulgaria. The question is not to vote abstentions, which means hesitation, the question is to show unity and emphasis once again through this government, as we have done so far twice with regard to similar DPS bills, to say no, to this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u41	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. President, it is true that you have recently been Vice-President of the National Assembly, but I invite you to apply all the strictness of the Rules of Procedure and to punish the person who, just a moment ago, of this tribune, made insults to an entire parliamentary group and to the members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It is unacceptable here to say that the DPS is a Turkish party or non-Bulgarian party, after all these years the DPS has proved to be the most Bulgarian party in this Parliament. [[Applause from DPS.]] Because with active participation, with active support Bulgaria is a member of NATO and the European Union and no one can deny the credit of the DPS for this. Dr. Daritkova, I don't see her, but please, the doctors in the room: urgently look for psychiatrists, colleagues, for these. [[Applause from the DPS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I made a remark to the speaker, Mr. Hamid. As you can see, I strive to be tolerant enough, although very often you MPs are putting Parliament Speaker in a really uncomfortable position. Maybe I should have made a note to you, too. My request to all of you is not to put us in such a position that you would not want to fall into. It's the way it's supposed to be. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u44	Mr. Chairman, I see absolutely nothing offensive about being a nationalist, being a patriot of any country. It's like Mr. Shopov said, honor and dignity for everyone. The fact that our practice has learned that we have convinced ourselves that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a representative of the Turkish diaspora in Bulgaria is, how can I tell you, perhaps our mistake, perhaps our right. And it's not a job from the stands if from here, the DPS have called us, and me specifically, the idiots, the fascists and so on, and so on, this is a work even for a court of law. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] The next time you call me a douche bag, we're going to sue. In court, you'll have to prove that I'm a fascist, which will be a little difficult for you. And now they were about to call a psychiatrist, Chetin Kazak, here once they took me out of the gym because he called me an idiot, and I didn't call him an idiot, but they took me out. This type of tolerance I, Mr. Chairman, do not understand. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u45	We're going in again...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u46	And look at them now what they're screaming and what they call me, listen to them and make them a note! In this room I've never offended anyone, I've been extremely tolerant of everyone. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u47	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. [[Noise.]] Okay. A statement? If there is anyone else who needs to speak in the manner of conduct, I am willing to listen to them. Here you are, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I thought not to take the floor, but because twice I heard from the platform of this Assembly a lie that this bill did not actually envision the people of the exodus agreements to receive citizenship, but only those who had Bulgarian citizenship or died as Bulgarian citizens. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, but at the moment the law allows it, so what are you suggesting? At the moment all these people, who are Bulgarian citizens, are subject to the exodus agreements from the Republic of Turkey, receive Bulgarian citizenship by applying. What do you suggest, then?! So don't lie! You propose that all those under the exodus agreements should be granted Bulgarian citizenship, including their descendants - children and grandchildren. Everyone! Hundreds of thousands and millions! The goal is that Turkey should have an even greater influence in Bulgaria and in Bulgarian politics. That's what we're not gonna let! I'll say a few more things. When the DPS enters the government of Bulgaria, it is always allowed to give them citizenship in the Council of Citizenship, and that is a fact! During Oresharski's cabinet thousands, not to say, tens of thousands received wrongfully Bulgarian citizenship from the Republic of Turkey because you influenced this. Stop lying, stop serving other people's interests! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will read again. Turns out this gentleman didn't read our bill either. Article 15, para. 1, colleagues, t. 3 acquires the following content: There is an ascending citizen or died as a Bulgarian citizen. This is not about any people, under any agreements, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Here, however, the aim of the speakers so far was clear to shift the issue to the agreements that Bulgaria has concluded and to escape the main issue. What do we do as Bulgarian MPs, as Bulgarian politicians for those who are already Bulgarian citizens, but simply do not have a document for this? These are people who have a father or grandfather Bulgarian citizen, the mileage for Bulgaria, but misunderstood politicians prevent them from receiving their document for Bulgarian citizenship. It is about hundreds of thousands and perhaps more Bulgarian citizens, whose parents were expelled from the communist regime during the revival process, who were banished with a crime that we would define as ethnic cleansing. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] We owe it to their children and their grandchildren, so I ask all my colleagues from BSP, GERB and from the Party of Volja to support our bill. We owe it to these people. These are the real Bulgarian citizens who think about Bulgaria and not like those on the right who think about the close political goals. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there lines? No. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I close the debates and put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-62. Vote 157 MPs: 25 against 46 abstentions 86. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted in the first vote on 7 December 2017. By the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Kirilov, please submit the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the report on the European Investigation Order Act, No 702-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017, adopted on the first vote on 7 December 2017. The European Investigation Order was issued by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. Article 1 "Instruction of the Law." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; we are voting on the General Situations. 1 which is supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 75, none, abstention 27. Sustained. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have failed to make a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure for Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice." Please allow the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u55	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission procedure made in this Chamber. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 6. Sustained. Please invite Deputy Minister Stoyanov to take his place in the Chamber. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u56	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: "Inquiry Order" Art. 2. (1) A European Investigation Order shall be an act issued by a competent authority of a Member State requesting a competent authority of another Member State to collect evidence, including evidence already available to the latter State, or to carry out an investigation and other procedural action. (2) A European Investigation Order may be issued for: 1. criminal proceedings initiated by a judicial authority or which may be initiated before a judicial authority for a criminal offence committed in the issuing State; 2. proceedings initiated by administrative authorities in relation to acts punishable by the law of the issuing State as they constitute offences and where the decision may lead to proceedings before a court competent in criminal matters; 3. proceedings initiated by judicial authorities in relation to acts punishable by the law of the issuing State as they constitute offences and where the decision may lead to proceedings before a court competent in criminal matters; 4. Acts in connection with proceedings under point 4. 1. 3 relating to crimes or offences for which a legal person may be liable or sanctioned in the issuing State. (3) The European Investigation Order may also be issued for: 1. temporary prevention in the territory of the executing State of acts of destruction, change, transfer, transfer or disposal of items which may be used as evidence; 2. a temporary transfer to the issuing State of a person detained in the executing State to carry out procedural actions requiring the presence of that person or a temporary transfer to the executing State of a person detained in the issuing State in order to participate in the requested investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u57	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the editorial of art. 2 which was submitted by the President of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 73, not against, abstention 15. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u58	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: "Contents and form of the European Investigation Order Art. 3. A European Investigation Order shall be issued according to a model as set out in Annex 1 and shall contain: 1. details, signature and stamp of the issuing authority; 2. the subject matter and grounds for issuing the European Investigation Order; 3. the necessary available information concerning the person to whom the investigation will take place and other procedural actions; 4. a description of the criminal act which is the subject of investigation or proceedings and of the relevant relevant provisions of the criminal law of the issuing State; 5. a description of the actions requested in the investigation and other procedural actions and evidence to be collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u59	Statements? I won't. We are voting on our proposed text for the editorial of art. 3. Vote 85 MPs: 72, none, abstention 13. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u60	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. "Administrative Field" Art. 4. (1) This law shall apply to all actions of the investigation and other procedural actions for which a European Investigation Order has been issued, except where a joint investigation team has been established under art. 476, para. 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (2) Where a competent authority participating in a joint investigation team requests the assistance of a Member State other than those participating in it, a European Investigation Order may be issued. (3) The law shall not apply: 1. in the case of the freezing of assets subject to confiscation, insofar as the request for confiscation of such property has not been claimed; 2. where cross-border surveillance is requested in application of art. 40 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Economic Union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of controls at their common borders (OB, L 239/19 of 22 September 2000).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u61	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on our proposed text by the Commission on the version of art. 4. Vote 81 MPs: 70, none, abstention 11. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u62	"Chapter 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. supplier of the issuing authority Art. 5. (1) A European Investigation Order in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be issued by: 1. the prosecutor concerned in pre-trial proceedings; 2. the court concerned in the proceedings. (2) The issuing of a European Investigation Order may also be requested by the defendant, the defendant or the defender authorised by them to carry out the necessary protection in criminal proceedings in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. (3) The bodies of para. 1 shall not disclose the evidence or information which has been provided to them as a result of the execution of a European Investigation Order, except to the extent to which their disclosure is necessary for the purposes of the investigation or proceedings described in the European Investigation Order, unless otherwise specified by the executing State. (4) The relevant authority under para. 1 may request competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the implementation of the European Investigation Order in support of the executing authority, if this is provided for in the law of the executing State or does not violate fundamental interests in the field of its national security. (5) The competent authorities of para. 4 which are located in the territory of the executing State shall be subject to its legislation during the implementation of the European Investigation Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u63	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 2 and the version of art. 5 which was presented by Mr. Kirilov. Vote 80 MPs: 67, none, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u64	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Terms and conditions for issuing a European Investigation Order Art. 6. (1) The competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 upon assessment on a case-by-case basis, issue a European Investigation Order if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the issuing of a European Investigation Order is necessary and proportionate to the purpose of criminal proceedings, taking into account the rights of the accused or defendant; 2. The actions of the investigation and the other procedural actions for which the European Investigation Order is issued may be carried out under the same conditions under the Bulgarian legislation in such a case. (2) When the executing authority decides that the conditions under para. 1 have not been implemented after consultation with a view to the importance of the implementation of the European Investigation Order, the competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 may withdraw the European Investigation Order. (3) The European Investigation Order shall be accompanied by a translation into the official or one of the official languages of the executing State or in another official language of the institutions of the European Union which it has indicated in a declaration deposited by it with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 6 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 10. Sustained. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u66	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Handing over a European Investigation Order Art. 7. (1) The European Investigation Order shall be sent to the executing authority in such a way as to allow written recording and authentication, and all subsequent official communication shall be made through direct contacts between the competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 and the executing authority. (2) The competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 may use any possible or appropriate means to transmit the European Investigation Order through the secure telecommunications system of the European Judicial Network, Eurojust or through other channels used by judicial or law enforcement authorities. (3) When the authority referred to in art. 5, para. 1 does not have information on the executing authority, it shall request the executing State, including through the contact points of the European Judicial Network.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 7 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 85, none, abstention 13. Sustained. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u68	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. ??????????????? relating to a previous European Investigation Order Art. 8. (1) The European Investigation Order, which complements the previous European Investigation Order, shall be issued in the form and with the content of art. 3, which shall be indicated in the relevant section of Annex No 1. (2) Where the competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 participate in the implementation of a European Investigation Order on the territory of the executing State under art. 5, para. 4, he may address the European Investigation Order under para. 1 to the executing authority as long as it is located in that State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? We are going to vote on the text of art. 8 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 14. Sustained. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u70	Thank you. ? Chapter 3? Recognition and enforcement of a European Investigation Order issued in another Member State? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Article 9 "A proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Hristian Mitev, made under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. "Competitor of recognition" Art. 9. (1) A competent authority to recognise a European Investigation Order in the Republic of Bulgaria issued by a competent authority of another Member State shall be: 1. in pre-trial proceedings, a prosecutor from the respective district or military district prosecution, whose district is requested to carry out the relevant investigative action or other procedural actions, or the transfer of the evidence already available or the prosecutor by the special prosecutor; 2. in the proceedings, the respective district or military court in which the relevant judicial action or the transfer of the evidence already available or the specialised criminal court is sought. (2) Where a request for an investigation or other procedural action falling within different judicial areas has been made by the European Investigation Order, it shall be recognised by the authority in whose area the action should be carried out with the utmost urgency. (3) Where the European Investigation Order is sent to an authority which is not competent to recognise it, it shall send it to the relevant competent authority under para. 1 and shall immediately inform the issuing authority thereof in such a way as to enable the written authentication of the receipt and its content. (4) The European Investigation Order shall be sent to the authorities under para. 1 in English or in English.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. First, we vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 3.. Acknowledgment and enforcement of the European Investigation Order issued in another Member State............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9 in the version proposed by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 14. Sustained. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: "Acknowledgment Terms and Conditions of Recognition" Art. 10. (1) A European Investigation Order shall be recognised in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria if it concerns acts which constitute a crime under the Bulgarian legislation, when, regardless of the differences between their compositions, their main signs coincide. (2) Double punishment within the meaning of para. 1 shall not be required for the following offences if, in the issuing State, they are punishable by imprisonment for a maximum period of not less than three years or are provided for a measure requiring detention for a maximum period of not less than three years: 1. participation in an organized criminal group; 2. terrorism; 3. human trafficking; 4. sexual exploitation of children and child pornography; 5. illicit trafficking of narcotics and psychotropic substances; 6. illicit trafficking of weapons, ammunition and explosives; 7. corruption; 8. fraud, including fraud, which affects the financial interests of the European Union within the meaning of the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities of 26 July 1995, ratified by law (promise, SG No. 12 from 2007) 9. laundering of property acquired from a crime; 10. forgery and counterfeiting of monetary signs, including euros; 11. computer crime and computer crime; 12. environmental crimes, including illegal trafficking of endangered animal species and endangered plant species and varieties; 13. supporting illegal entry and residence; 14. murder, severe bodily harm; 15. illegal trade in human organs and tissues; 16. kidnapping, illegal imprisonment and hostage-taking; 17. racism and xenophobia; 18. organised or armed robbery; 19. illicit trafficking of cultural objects, including antique objects and works of art; 20. fraud; 21. racketeering and extortion; 22. forgery and piracy of products; 23. forgery of administrative documents and trade in them; 24. forgery of payment instruments; 25. illicit trafficking of hormonal substances and other growth stimulators; 26. illicit trafficking of nuclear or radioactive materials; 27. traffic of illegally withdrawn vehicles; 28. rape; 29. arson; 30. crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court; 31. illegal hijacking of aircraft or ships; 32. Sabotage. (3) Where a European Investigation Order concerns a criminal offence relating to taxes or charges, duties or exchange, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 cannot refuse recognition and enforcement on the grounds that the Bulgarian legislation does not provide for the same type of tax or charge and that it does not contain provisions for the same types of taxes, fees and duties or exchange as the law of the issuing State. (4) Where the actions of the investigation and other procedural actions or the transmission of evidence are subject to a special procedure, authorisation or approval by a court, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code shall apply accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 10 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 87, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: supplier of the Court of Justice's recognition Art. 11. (1) The relevant court under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 shall recognise the European Investigation Order transmitted in accordance with art. 7, para. 1 unless there are grounds for non-confession or non-compliance or grounds for delay. The court shall consider the case single-handedly in closed session. (2) When received by the order of art. 7, para. 1 A European Investigation Order does not meet the requirements of art. 3, the court shall return it to the issuing State. (3) At the request of the issuing State, the court may authorise the participation of one or more of its authorities in the implementation of the European Investigation Order, if this is provided for in the Bulgarian legislation or does not violate the main interests in the field of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The authorities of the issuing State located in the territory of the country are subject to the Bulgarian legislation during the implementation of the European Investigation Order. (4) Within the time limits laid down in art. 14 The court shall rule by a definition recognising the European Investigation Order and shall do what is necessary for its implementation under the Bulgarian legislation. (5) The order may be appealed and protested within 5 days before the Court of Appeal. The decision of the Court of Appeal shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. Before putting the text to the vote, let's congratulate our guests from school Vasil Levski. [[Applause.]] We're going to vote on art. 11 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: "Proceeding of recognition by a prosecutor" Art. 12. (1) The relevant prosecutor under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 shall recognise the European Investigation Order transmitted in accordance with art. 7, para. 1 unless there are grounds for non-confession or non-compliance or grounds for delay. (2) When received by the order of art. 7, para. 1 A European Investigation Order does not meet the requirements of art. 3, the prosecutor returns it to the issuing State. (3) At the request of the issuing State, the prosecutor may authorise the participation of one or more of its authorities in the implementation of the European Investigation Order, if this is provided for in the Bulgarian legislation or does not violate the main interests in the field of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The authorities of the issuing State located in the territory of the country are subject to the Bulgarian legislation during the implementation of the European Investigation Order. (4) Within the time limits laid down in art. 14 The prosecutor shall issue a decree recognising the European Investigation Order and determining the competent authority and action of the investigation and other procedural actions to be carried out in accordance with the request of the issuing State. (5) The order shall be subject to an appeal under art. 200 and the next of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (6) The recognition order and the European Investigation Order shall be sent immediately to the relevant competent enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 12 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 75, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u78	Thank you. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: "Execution of a European Investigation Order" Art. 13. (1) The competent authorities of the implementation of the European Investigation Order shall take timely action to carry out investigations and other procedural actions, subject to the time limits laid down in this Law and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. (2) In the performance of the European Investigation Order, the competent authorities under para. 1 comply with the formalities and procedures specified by the issuing authority unless otherwise provided for in the Law and if these formalities and procedures are not contrary to the Bulgarian legislation. (3) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 and the issuing authority may consult in order to facilitate the efficient implementation of the European Investigation Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 13 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 77, none, abstention 9. Sustained. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Terms Art. 14. (1) Upon receipt of a European order for investigation by mail, e-mail, fax or otherwise, allowing the written authentication of the receipt and its content, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 initiates a recognition proceedings. (2) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall examine the European Investigation Order received in accordance with the order laid down in this Law. (3) Within 30 days of receipt of the European Investigation Order, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall rule by the relevant act of recognition and enforcement. That period may be extended by not more than 30 days after indicating the reasons for the delay and after consultations between the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 and issuing authority. (4) The competent authority of the implementation of the European Investigation Order shall carry out investigations and other procedural actions within 90 days of the date of judgment under para. 3. (5) Where it is not possible to meet the term under para. 4, the competent authority referred to in Article 4. 9, para. 1 shall immediately inform the issuing authority of the reasons for the delay and, after consultation, determine the additional time necessary to carry out the investigation and other procedural actions. (6) Where the issuing authority has indicated in the European Investigation Order that due to the specified procedural time limits, the severity of the offence or other particularly urgent circumstances a shorter period than those provided for in para. 3 and 4 or that investigative actions and other procedural actions must be carried out on a specific date, the competent authority implementing the European Investigation Order shall comply with this requirement as much as possible. (7) Where it is not possible to meet the term or specific date under para. 6, the competent authority referred to in Article 6. 9, para. 1 shall immediately inform the issuing authority of the reasons and, after consultation, determine the additional time necessary to carry out the investigation and other procedural actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 14 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 13. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Selecting other types of investigative actions and others procedural actions Art. 15. (1) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 may choose to act on the investigation and other procedural actions other than those referred to in the European Investigation Order where: 1. the actions referred to in the European Investigation Order are not provided for in the Bulgarian legislation; 2. the actions referred to in the European Investigation Order cannot be used in such a case under the Bulgarian legislation; 3. the same result will be achieved by the chosen action, but by means which to a lesser extent violate the privacy and legitimate interests and rights of the person compared to the action referred to in the European Investigation Order. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 notify immediately the issuing authority which may decide to withdraw or supplement the European Investigation Order. (3) Where no other action on the investigation and other procedural actions may be carried out under para. 1, the competent authority referred to in Article 1. 9, para. 1 notify the issuing authority accordingly. (4) The provision of para. 1 shall not apply where the European Investigation Order concerns: 1. receipt of information or evidence by which the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 already has and which could be obtained in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, in criminal proceedings or for the purposes of the European Investigation Order; 2. receiving information contained in the automated processing systems of personal data used by judicial authorities, pre-trial authorities or other bodies having access to such information in criminal proceedings; 3. questioning of a witness, an expert, injured, accused on the territory of the country; 4. the identification of subscribers holding a subscription for a given telephone number or IP address; 5. any other action on the investigation and other procedural actions which do not violate the rights or freedoms of the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of art. 15 in the version proposed by the Commission. We vote 86 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 10. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u84	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: "Acceptances for refusal of recognition or enforcement Art. 16. (1) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 may refuse to recognise or execute a European Investigation Order where: 1. there is immunity or privilege under the Bulgarian legislation that makes its implementation impossible; 2. the execution of the European Investigation Order would harm the fundamental interests of national security or jeopardise a source of information or would require the use of classified information related to specific intelligence activities; 3. the execution of the European Investigation Order would be contrary to the principle of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. The European Investigation Order has been issued in connection with proceedings initiated by administrative authorities or bodies of the judiciary for acts which are not permitted to act on the investigation and other procedural actions in a similar case under the Bulgarian legislation; 5. The European Investigation Order refers to an act which has been committed outside the territory of the issuing State, which has been committed in whole or in part within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and does not constitute a crime under the Bulgarian legislation; 6. there are substantial grounds to believe that the implementation of the action on the investigation and other procedural actions would be incompatible with respect for the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; 7. a decision has been given in relation to a legal remedy under art. 18, which discourages the European Investigation Order; 8. The act to which the European Investigation Order is issued shall not constitute a crime under Bulgarian law, unless the European Investigation Order refers to a crime on the list under art. 10, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 9. the operation of the investigation and other procedural actions for the offence referred to in the European order for investigation shall apply under the Bulgarian law only to a specific circle or category of crimes or to those for which a certain threshold of punishment is laid down and which do not include the criminal offence referred to in the European order for investigation. (2) The provisions of para. 1, t. 8 and 9 shall not apply where the European Investigation Order concerns the cases provided for in art. 15, para. 4. (3) Before deciding not to recognise or not to execute in whole or in part a European Investigation Order, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall consult the issuing authority by any appropriate means allowing written documentation and may require that authority to provide the necessary additional information without delay. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 where the Bulgarian authority has the power to withdraw the privilege or to remove immunity, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall immediately inform the competent authority concerned to make a request. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 where competent to withdraw the privilege or to remove immunity is an authority of another State or international organisation, the authority referred to in art. 9, para. 1 shall immediately inform the issuing authority to make a request. (6) In the cases under para. 4 and 5 time limits under art. 14 shall start on the day on which the competent authority referred to in Article 4. 9, para. 1 has been notified of the withdrawal of the privilege or of the waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text for art. 16 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 11. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u86	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: supplied by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Art. 17. (1) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 transmit to the issuing State without delay the evidence collected or already available as a result of the execution of the European Investigation Order. (2) Where a request is included in the European Investigation Order and if there is an opportunity under the Bulgarian legislation, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 transmit the evidence immediately to the authorities under art. 11, para. 3 participating in the implementation of the European Investigation Order. (3) The transmission of evidence may be suspended until a decision has been given in relation to the legal remedy used under art. 18 unless sufficient grounds are given in the European Investigation Order that their immediate transmission is essential for the proper conduct of the investigation or for the protection of the rights of the person concerned. Despite the indication of such grounds, the transmission of evidence shall be suspended if it would cause serious or irreversible damage to the person concerned. (4) In the case of the transfer of evidence, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall indicate whether they shall be returned to him as soon as they cease to be necessary to the issuing State. (5) Where the evidence is relevant for other proceedings, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 may, upon an explicit request and after consulting the issuing authority, temporarily forward the evidence, provided that it will be returned to it as soon as they cease to be necessary to the issuing State or at any other time or occasion agreed between the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 and the issuing authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of art. 17 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u88	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Legal remedies Art. 18. (1) For the protection of interested parties in carrying out an investigation and other procedural actions referred to in the European Investigation Order, the legal means and time limits provided for such cases in the Bulgarian legislation shall apply. (2) The substantive grounds for issuing a European Investigation Order may be appealed only in the issuing State, without prejudice to the guarantees of fundamental rights provided for in the Bulgarian legislation. (3) Where there will be no breach of the need to ensure confidentiality of the investigation under art. 23, the issuing authority and the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall take measures to provide information on the possibilities available for the use of legal remedies when they become applicable and ensure their effective implementation in a timely manner. (4) The issuing authority and the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall inform each other of the legal remedies taken against the issuance, recognition or enforcement of the European Investigation Order. (5) The appeal of action on the investigation and other procedural actions shall not suspend their execution unless provided for in the Bulgarian legislation in such cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of art. 18 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u90	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: "Acceptances to postpone recognition or enforcement Art. 19. (1) Recognition or enforcement of the European Investigation Order may be postponed where: 1. its implementation may prevent the disclosure of objective truth in pending criminal proceedings for a period which the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 consider it reasonable; 2. the relevant evidence is already used in other proceedings until it is no longer necessary for this purpose. (2) After dropping the ground for delay the competent authorities under art. 9, para. 1 take immediately the necessary measures to comply with the European Investigation Order and inform the issuing authority thereof in such a way as to enable written documentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 19 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u92	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: ? An obligation to inform Art. 20. (1) Within 7 days of receipt of the European Investigation Order, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall confirm its receipt by completing and sending a form in accordance with Annex No 2. The form shall also be filled in by the authority referred to in art. 9, para. 3, who initially received the European Investigation Order. (2) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 notify the issuing authority without delay where: 1. shall not take a decision on the recognition or enforcement of a European Investigation Order because the form provided for in Annex 1 is incomplete or obviously incorrect; 2. in the course of the implementation of the European Investigation Order, it shall be assessed, without further checks, that action may be carried out on the investigation and other procedural actions which were not originally envisaged or could not be specified when issuing the European Investigation Order in order to enable the issuing authority to take further action in the present case; 3. in this case cannot comply with the formalities and procedures specified by the issuing authority in accordance with art. 13, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u93	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the wording of art. 20 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21, in which the word "Member State" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u95	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 21, in which the word "Member State" shall be deleted on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u96	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: supposed to be responsible for damage Art. 22. (1) The issuing State shall be responsible for any damage caused by its employees whose participation in investigative actions and other procedural actions has been admitted by the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1, during the implementation of the European Investigation Order in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. (2) The Bulgarian State shall take the necessary action to correct the damage caused under para. 1 under the conditions applicable to damages caused by its own employees, according to the procedure laid down in the Bulgarian legislation. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The issuing State shall refund in full the amounts paid by the Bulgarian State as compensation to the victims or to the persons who had the right to receive them on their behalf. (4) Without prejudice to its rights as regards third parties and except for the cases under para. 3, The Bulgarian State will not ask the issuing State for recovery of the damage it has suffered.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u97	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 22 "Certificacy for damages' in the version proposed by the Commission. 84 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 8. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u98	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: "Confidence" Art. 23. (1) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 and the bodies implementing the European Investigation Order shall take the necessary measures under the Bulgarian legislation to ensure compliance with the confidentiality of the investigation. (2) In accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, the bodies referred to in para. 1 take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the confidentiality of the facts and content of the European Investigation Order, with the exception of the measures necessary to carry out the investigation and other procedural actions. Where those authorities are unable to comply with the confidentiality requirement, the competent authority referred to in art. 9, para. 1 shall immediately inform the issuing authority thereof. (3) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, the banks shall take the necessary measures not to disclose to the affected clients of the bank or to third parties that information has been transmitted to the issuing State in accordance with art. 30 and 31 or an investigation is being carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u99	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 23 In the version proposed by the Commission, confidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u100	Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u102	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 24. Vote 79 MPs: 72, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u103	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: The amount of assigned Art. 25. (1) The costs of implementing the European Investigation Order on the territory of the country shall be borne by the Bulgarian State. (2) When the expenses under para. 1 shall prove excessive, the competent authority referred to in Article 1. 9, para. 1 inform the issuing authority of the details of those costs and may consult the issuing authority on how to share them or amend the European Investigation Order. (3) Where no agreement can be reached with regard to the costs under para. 2, the issuing authority may: 1. withdraw the European Investigation Order in whole or in part; or 2. to cover the costs considered to be incurred.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u104	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 25 on the Commission report. 86 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u105	"Chapter 4" - Specific rules for carrying out certain investigative actions and other actions of appeal. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: For the purpose of carrying out the investigation and other procedural actions, the time-limits for the transfer of persons in custody shall be those set out in Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) Art. 26. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued for the temporary transfer of a person detained in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and other procedural actions, with a view to collecting evidence for which the presence of that person is required in the territory of the issuing State, provided that the person is returned within a period specified by the competent authority under para. 2. (2) A competent authority shall recognise and comply with the European Investigation Order in the cases under para. 1 is the district court in which the person in custody is situated. The Regional Court shall examine the European Investigation Order in accordance with art. 50 of the Law on Extradition and the European Arrest Warrant and informs the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor of the admitted surrender of the detained person, as well as of the conditions under which the surrender was admitted. (3) Except in the cases referred to in art. 16, the execution of a European Investigation Order issued for a temporary transfer may be refused and if the following grounds exist: 1. the person detained does not give consent, or 2. as a result of the transmission will extend the retention period of the person. (4) If necessary, given the age of the person or his physical or mental status, his legal representative or defender shall be given the opportunity to submit a written opinion on the temporary transmission in a timely manner. (5) Where an authorisation is required for transit of the detained person through the territory of a third Member State, the issuing State shall notify the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the competent authority under para. 2 for the authorised transit of the person. (6) The questions relating to the temporary transfer of the person, including the details of the conditions of his detention in the issuing State and the period within which the person should be accepted by the issuing State and returned to the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be agreed between the issuing authority and the competent authority under para. 2. taking into account the physical and mental condition of the affected person and the levels of security in the issuing State. (7) The person who has been betrayed shall remain detained in the territory of the issuing State and, if necessary, within the territory of the Member State of transit, in relation to the acts or convictions for which he has been detained in the Republic of Bulgaria, unless the competent authority under para. Two asked for his release. (8) The time during which the person has been detained in the territory of the States under para. 7 shall be deducted from the detention period which the person concerned endures or will be obliged to endure in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (9) In the cases under para. 7 The deceased shall not be prosecuted or detained, nor shall other measures be imposed on him to limit his personal freedom in the issuing State for acts or convictions which he has committed prior to his departure from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and which are not referred to in the European Investigation Order. (10) Paragraph 9 shall not apply where the transferred person, after a 15-day continuous period from the date on which his presence was no longer necessary by the issuing authorities, has been able to leave the issuing State, but: 1. nevertheless remained in its territory, or Two, after she left, she went back there. (11) The temporary transfer of the person shall be carried out in accordance with art. 26 of the Law on Extradition and the European Arrest Warrant. (12) Expenditure relating to the temporary transfer shall be borne in accordance with Article 12. 25 except for the costs arising from the transfer of the person to and from the issuing State to be borne by him. (13) The provisions of para. 1 - 12, the grounds for non-confession and non-compliance under art. 16 and the rules on expenditure under art. 25 shall also apply respectively to the temporary transfer of a person detained in the issuing State for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and other procedural action with a view to collecting evidence necessary for the presence of the person on the territory of the executing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u106	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 4 and the version of Article 4. 26 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u107	The Commission proposes to establish a new Article 27: "Transit of detained persons, temporary surrender for the purpose of carrying out the investigation and other procedural actions Art. 27. (1) The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor shall accept the applications for transit of detained persons, for a temporary transfer for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and other procedural action, and the accompanying documents in a manner which shall certify their written transmission. (2) The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office shall authorise transit through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to a person under para. 1 if the issuing State provides: 1. a copy of the European Investigation Order; 2. details of the person; 3. information on the consent granted by the person or the written opinion of his legal representative for transmission for the purposes of art. 26; 4. information on the accompanying staff and approved plan for the implementation of the transmission. (3) The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office shall inform the issuing State of its decision in a manner which may certify its transmission in writing. (4) The provisions of this Article shall not apply in the case of air transport without intended intermediate landing in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the case of planned or exceptional landing, the issuing State shall provide the information under para. 2 of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. (5) Where a competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 issue a European Investigation Order for the temporary transfer of a detained person for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and other procedural actions, he shall request transit through the territory of another Member State by providing the documents referred to in para. 2 of this country. In such cases, the authority shall notify the executing State of the person's transit authorisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u108	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the new article to the vote. 27, which the Commission proposes and supports. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u109	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 28: supplied by video conference or other audio-visual transmission Art. 28. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued for questioning through a video conference or other audio-visual transmission of a person located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and which must be questioned by the issuing State as an accused, witness or expert. (2) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 is obliged to inform the accused of his rights in due time in order to ensure that the right of defence is effectively exercised. (3) The execution of a European order for investigation by means of a video conference or other audiovisual transmission may be refused where the accused person: 1. do not consent to this, or 2. the implementation of such an action on the investigation and other procedural actions in this case are contrary to the Bulgarian legislation. (4) Witnesses shall not be obliged to testify in the cases provided for in the Bulgarian legislation or in the legislation of the issuing State. Before questioning, witnesses shall be informed of their rights and their responsibility if they give false testimony or conceal certain circumstances. (5) The persons shall not be obliged to draw conclusions in the cases provided for in the Bulgarian legislation or in the legislation of the issuing State. Before questioning, property persons shall be informed of their rights and their liability if, orally or in writing, they give false conclusion. (6) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 is required to: 1. call on the defendant, witness or expert to appear for questioning in accordance with the order laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure, indicating the time and place of questioning; 2. do what is necessary to establish the identity of the person to be questioned. (7) Where, in the circumstances of the particular case, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall not have access to technical means of interrogation conducted by a video conference or other audiovisual transmission, such means may be provided by the issuing State by mutual agreement. (8) The following rules shall apply when interviewing by video conference or other audio-visual transmission: 1. the competent authority referred to in Article 1 shall be present at the interview. 9, para. 1, which shall be assisted by a translator where necessary; 2. the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall be responsible for establishing the identity of the person to be questioned and for compliance with the Bulgarian legislation, and shall, if necessary, negotiate with the issuing authority measures to protect the person to be questioned; 3. the questioning shall be conducted directly by the issuing authority or under its authority under the legislation of the issuing State; 4. where necessary, at the request of the issuing State or of the person to be interrogated, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 provides interpretation in a language understood by the person. (9) When a violation of the Bulgarian legislation is detected during the interrogation, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the interrogation is conducted in accordance with the rules laid down therein. (10) Upon completion of the interrogation, subject to the measures agreed in the European Investigation Order for the protection of persons, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 draw up a record indicating the date and place of questioning, the identity of the person questioned, the identity and functions of all persons involved in the interrogation, the oaths made and the technical conditions under which the interview was conducted. The minutes shall be sent to the issuing authority. (11) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 take the necessary measures to ensure that when the defendant, witness or expert refuses to give explanations, statements or conclusions, even though they have an obligation to do so, or give false explanations, statements or conclusions, the Bulgarian legislation is applied in the same way as if the interrogation would have been conducted in national proceedings in a similar case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 27, which becomes art. 28 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u111	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 29: ? Interrogation through a telephone conference Art. 29. (1) Where a person who needs to be questioned as a witness or expert is located in the territory of another Member State and it is not possible for the person to appear in person after having assessed the possibility of using other appropriate means, the issuing authority may issue a European order for questioning of the witness or expert by means of a telephone conference. (2) In the interview of the witness or expert shall apply respectively art. 28, para. 2,4? 6 and 8? 11.?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u112	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 28, which becomes art. 29 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 72, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u113	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 30: Information on bank and other financial accounts Art. 30. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued in order to determine whether a natural or legal person against whom criminal proceedings are conducted is authorised to dispose of, own or may dispose of one or more accounts, regardless of their type, in any bank in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and, if so, to provide all the data on the established accounts. (2) The issuing authority shall state in the European Investigation Order the reasons why it considers that the requested information is essential for the purposes of criminal proceedings, the reasons for which it considers that such accounts exist in banks in the Republic of Bulgaria and which banks may have the accounts in question. The Authority shall also provide all other available information which may facilitate the execution of the order. (3) Access to the information under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 56a of the Credit Institutions Act. (4) A European Investigation Order may also be issued to determine whether a natural or legal person against whom criminal proceedings are conducted holds or may dispose of one or more accounts in a non-banking financial institution located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this case, the recognition and enforcement of the European Investigation Order, except for the grounds under art. 16 may be refused, and if the implementation of this action on the investigation is prohibited by the Bulgarian legislation in such cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u114	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 29, which becomes art. 30 which the Commission supports. Vote 82 MPs: 70, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I suggest we stop here, Mrs. Alexandrova. Holiday, coworkers, till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u115	Let's move on. Mrs. Alexandrova, please report to Art. 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u116	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 31: Information on banking and other financial operations Art. 31. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued in order to collect information representing a bank secret for specific bank accounts and banking operations which have been carried out during a specified period through one or more accounts specified therein, including the data on each account of an orderer and of a recipient. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the court decrees disclosure of the information under Chapter 8 of the Credit Institutions Act. (3) The issuing authority shall state in the European Investigation Order the grounds on which it considers that the requested information is essential for the purpose of criminal proceedings. (4) The European Investigation Order may also be issued in relation to the information provided for in para. 1 for financial transactions conducted by non-bank financial institutions. The recognition and enforcement of a European Investigation Order may be refused except on the grounds of art. 16, and if the implementation of investigative actions and other procedural actions is prohibited by the Bulgarian legislation in similar cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 30, which becomes art. 31 in the version of the Commission. Abort the vote. We're proceeding with a roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - absent Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Dear colleagues, there is a quorum. Let's move on. I give the floor for a procedural proposal to Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u118	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second readings by another 6 days " to 13 February 2018 including a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act by No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for an extension of another 6 days for the quoted law to 13 February 2018 inclusive. They voted 119 MPs: 109, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We've suspended the vote on art. 30, which becomes art. 31 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 118 MPs: 93, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u120	Under art. 31 has a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 32: "Inquiry action and other procedural actions', which require the collection of evidence in real time, continuously and over a certain period Art. 32. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and other procedural actions requiring the collection of evidence in real time, continuously and for a specified period of time, indicating the grounds on which information is considered essential for the purpose of the criminal proceedings concerned where: 1. monitoring of banking or other financial operations carried out through one or more specified accounts; 2. controlled deliveries on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The recognition and enforcement of the European order for investigation under para. 1 may be refused except on the grounds of art. 16, and if the implementation of the relevant action on the investigation and other procedural actions are not authorised by the Bulgarian legislation in such cases. (3) In the cases under para. 1 The competent authority of the implementation of the European Investigation Order shall have the right to act, to direct and control operations relating to the implementation of the European Investigation Order. (4) The details relating to the implementation of the European Investigation Order issued for carrying out a controlled supply shall be agreed between the issuing State and the Republic of Bulgaria subject to their national legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposed text for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 32 in the version of the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 86, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u122	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 33: An undercover employee investigation. Art. 33. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued for the purpose of requesting the Republic of Bulgaria to assist the issuing State in conducting investigations of the crime by undercover officers. (2) The issuing authority shall state in the European Investigation Order the grounds on which it considers that the undercover investigation is relevant for the purpose of the criminal proceedings concerned. The decision on the recognition and enforcement of the European Investigation Order shall be taken on a case-by-case basis by the competent authority referred to in art. 9, para. 1 subject to the Bulgarian legislation. (3) The recognition and enforcement of the European Investigation Order may be refused, except on the grounds of art. 16, and if: 1. the execution of an undercover investigation would not be allowed in such a national case, or 2. it was not possible to reach an agreement on the arrangements for undercover investigations under para. 6. (4) The investigation undercover in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried out in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Special Intelligence Act. (5) Only the competent authority of the implementation of the European Investigation Order shall have the right to act, to direct and control operations relating to the undercover investigation. (6) The duration of the undercover investigation, the detailed conditions and the legal status of the relevant officers involved in undercover investigations shall be agreed between the issuing State and the Republic of Bulgaria subject to their national legislation. (7) Where the European Investigation Order is issued by a competent authority under art. 5, para. 1 it shall state the reasons why it considers that the undercover investigation is relevant for the purpose of the criminal proceedings concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 32, which becomes Art. 33 in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 91, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Dear MPs, before we continue, I would like to inform you that students from the school are located on the balcony of the hall. Dobrich, who are visiting Parliament today. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u124	"Chapter 5" - "Capture of e-mail messages." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 34: Clicking on e-mail messages with the technical assistance of another Member State Art. 34. (1) A European Investigation Order may be issued to intercept electronic communications in the Member State from which technical assistance is required. (2) Where more than one Member State is able to provide all necessary technical assistance for the same intercept of electronic communications, a European Investigation Order shall be sent only to one of them, with priority being given to the State where the person who is or will be located is the subject of the detention. (3) The European Investigation Order under para. 1 contains and: 1. the information for the purpose of identifying the person subject to the intercept; 2. the desired duration of the intercept; 3. sufficient technical data, in particular the site identifier, to ensure the implementation of the European Investigation Order. (4) The issuing authority shall state in the European Investigation Order the grounds on which it considers that that investigative action and other procedural actions are appropriate for the purpose of the criminal proceedings concerned. (5) Recognition and enforcement of a European Investigation Order may be refused, except on the grounds of art. 16, and if the relevant action on the investigation and other procedural actions are not authorised by the Bulgarian legislation in such a case. The executing State may bind its consent to compliance with the conditions required by the Bulgarian legislation. (6) The European Investigation Order may be executed by: 1. transmission of electronic communications immediately to the issuing State, or 2. intercepting, recording and subsequent transmission of the result of the intercept of electronic communications to the issuing State. (7) The issuing authority and the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 hold mutual consultations with a view to reaching agreement on whether the intercept is to be carried out in accordance with para. 6, p. One or two. (8) When issuing the European Investigation Order or during the detention, the issuing authority may, in the event that there is a special basis for it, request and print, decode or decrypt the recording, provided that there is agreement by the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1. (9) Expenditure related to the application of para. 1 s 8 shall be taken into account in accordance with art. 25 except for the costs of printing, decoding or decrypting intercepted electronic communications to be borne by the issuing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u125	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Five and the text of art. 33, which becomes 34 in the Commission's version. 100 MPs voted: 87, none against, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes art. 35. "Chapters 6................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u127	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 34, which becomes art. 35, and the name of Chapter Six. Vote 89 MPs: 79, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u128	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 36: supposed measures Art. 36. (1) A European Investigation Order may also be issued in order to take action on the investigation and other procedural actions with a view to preventing the destruction, change, relocation, transmission of items which may be used as evidence or the disposal of such items. (2) The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 shall decide on the provisional measure and communicate it in due time, if possible, within 24 hours of receipt of the European Investigation Order. (3) Where a request for the provisional measure is made, the issuing authority shall indicate in the European Investigation Order whether the evidence will be transmitted to the issuing State or will remain in the Republic of Bulgaria. The competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 recognise and execute such a European Investigation Order and transmit the evidence in accordance with that law. (4) Where the European Investigation Order is accompanied by instructions to remain in the Republic of Bulgaria, the issuing authority shall indicate the date of termination of the provisional measure or the expected date for the submission of the request for transmission of the evidence to the issuing State. (5) After consulting the issuing authority, the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 may, in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, lay down appropriate conditions in the light of the circumstances of the case in order to limit the period for which the temporary measure must remain in force. (6) When in accordance with para. 5 the competent authority under art. 9, para. 1 providing for termination of the provisional measure, it shall inform the issuing authority to which it is given the opportunity to submit its observations. The issuing authority shall immediately inform the competent authority referred to in Article. 9, para. 1 on the termination of the temporary measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 35, which becomes art. 36, in the version of the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 89, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u130	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The Member State is a Member State of the European Union, with the exception of Ireland and Denmark. 2. The issuing Member State shall be a Member State in which the European Investigation Order has been issued. 3. A executing State shall be a Member State executing a European Investigation Order in which the investigation and other procedural actions will be carried out. 4. The issuing authority (s) shall be: (a) Judge, court, judge or prosecutor competent for the case in question; or (b) the authority designated by the issuing State which, in the relevant case, acts as an investigative authority in criminal proceedings, is competent to order the collection of evidence in accordance with the legislation of that State and whose act prior to dispatch for enforcement has been confirmed by a judge, court, judge or prosecutor in the issuing State. 5. The executing authority shall be a body competent to recognise and ensure the execution of a European Investigation Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u131	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We vote on the name of the division of the Law and § 1. Vote 98 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u132	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u133	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on § 2, § 3, and on the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u134	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property or evidence (SG. No. 59 of 2006) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the name of the Law, the words "or evidence" shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 in the title and in the text, the words "or evidence" and "or to provide evidence" shall be deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in the title, the words "or transmission of evidence' shall be deleted; (b) in para. 1 t. Two is canceled. 4. Article 12 shall be repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the heading, the words "or the transmission of evidence' shall be deleted; (b) paragraphs 3 and 4 are repealed. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "or evidence" shall be deleted; (bb) point 2 is repealed; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "or evidence" shall be deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 8. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Four is canceled. 9. In the other texts of the Law, the words "or evidence" or the evidence "or the transfer of evidence" and "or the proof" shall be deleted. 10. In the annex to art. 3: (a) in points (a), (b) and (c), the words "or, if necessary, additional arrangements for the transmission of evidence' shall be deleted; (b) in point (e) (i) 2.2 et seq. 3 are repealed; (c) in point (aa) the words "Description of property or evidence and their whereabouts' shall be replaced by "Description of property and location'; (bb) c. point (b) is repealed; (c) all the words "or the evidence" and "or the proof" shall be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission that you have just heard. Voted 103 MPs: 86, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u136	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 62, para. 6, p. 1 shall be added at the end, either in the cases referred to in Article 1. 31 of the Law on the European Investigation Order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... The proceedings established until the entry into force of this law for the purpose of securing evidence under the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property or evidence shall be examined and completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u137	Are there any statements under paragraphs 5 and 6? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 5 and 6. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u138	Annex 1 to art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1. Annex 2 to art. 20, para. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2. "Acceptance No 3 to art. 34, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 3 and in its name the words "art." 34, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 35, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches on the proposed applications? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting for Annexes 1, 2 and 3 plus the change proposed by Mrs. Alexandrova. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The proposal was adopted by which the European Investigation Order Bill was adopted in the second vote. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, submitted on 17 November 2017. Please submit the report to the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft supplemental bill Law on the Protection and Development of Culture, No 754-01-80, submitted By Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 November 2017 At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 18 January 2018, the Law on Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture was reviewed, No 754 01 80, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 November 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Amelia Gesheva The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by the National Representative Anton Kutev. The proposed addition to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture provides that Bulgarian citizens with a permanent address in the country at the age of 18 years will have the opportunity to receive an electronic map for cultural activities. The main goal is to facilitate and extend the access of young people in Bulgaria to culture. The electronic map for cultural activities is intended to apply to visits to circus, music and musical performances and concerts, museums, art galleries and theatres, film screenings, visits to architectural, historical, archaeological, natural, ethnographic and museum reserves and complexes, as well as the purchase of books. On a proposal from the Minister of Culture, the Council of Ministers may also determine other cultural activities for which the use of the electronic map is possible. The minimum value of the card is defined at 200 BGN, which is not considered income within the meaning of the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals. The electronic card is in a computer application format and is used through access to a single national web-based platform subject to the protection requirements for personal data. The State Agency "E-Management" jointly with the Ministry of Culture must set up and maintain the platform. The duration of the card shall be after it is activated to be able to be used until 31 December of the year following the age of 18 years. It is envisaged that officials are authorised by the Minister of Culture to exercise control over the lawful use of the electronic card by its recipients. The preliminary impact assessment applied to the Bill indicates the amount of just over 15 million. BGN necessary for the implementation of the change. The Committee on Culture and Media has requested and received written opinions on the Draft Law by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the State Agency The Ministry of Culture does not support the Bill and notes that no in-depth analysis of the expected results of the introduction of electronic maps for cultural activities has been carried out. No specific link has been established between these objectives and the promotion of young people's access to culture and the introduction of an electronic map for cultural activities. The Ministry of Finance also does not support the Bill. Notes that the Bill leads to significant additional financial commitments of the state budget, which are not estimated in the three-year budget forecast; The proposed funding model will not achieve its main goal of promoting the development of culture. The promotion of the development of culture must be carried out by introducing measures and incentives that are outside the field of taxation. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the State Agency is not ruling on the philosophy of the Bill but within their competence and propose changes to be made. The Personal Data Protection Commission notes that the bill does not conflict with the basic principles for the processing of personal data. During the discussion Ms Amelia Gesheva confirmed the opinion of the Ministry of Culture which does not support the bill. Members of parliament Vejdi Rashidov, Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov took part in the draft under consideration and expressed no support for it. In his speech the People's Representative Chavdar Velinov expressed support for the bill. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 4 votes for the House of Culture and 11 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 754-01-80, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 17 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u141	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The following is an importer's opinion and a statement of reasons. Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! The law on the cultural check, as we call it, in my opinion, at least that's how I pictured it when we wrote the Bill, was supposed to be one of the consensus bills, because, frankly, it gives huge opportunities to executives in the field of culture. He was so thoughtful and written. This bill, of course, aims at what we have written in the motives, namely support for Bulgarian art, providing free access to culture, stimulating the consumption of culture, promoting the development of culture for every young person aged 18 years, additional funding of activities related to culture and motivating cultural institutes to create more cultural products with youth content. There is no doubt in my mind that an honest reading of the Law says that all these things, in reality, are achievable through this law. Yes, we probably won't make all the young people of 18 years of culture, we probably won't with this bill make them somehow consume culture, but the fact that the Law and the actions it foresees would motivate the participation of young people in culture is undeniable. That such a bill would contribute to the funding of culture by extending the budget of the Ministry of Culture because everything we provide for in the cultural check is actually an additional contribution to the Ministry of Culture outside of what it currently has. That when this bill comes into force, we will, in fact, motivate cultural institutes to create content that is close to youth, is also indisputable. That the money that is provided for young people to receive these 200 leva. Each year, there is no way to spend it on anything other than culture, it is also indisputable. That is, all these objectives that we have set in the Bill cannot be declared untenable or that they are not implemented through this bill. The fact that we need this, in the sense we need a few things: first of all, the promotion of culture in Bulgaria, judging by everything that is happening in society, there is no dispute for me, that's where we started when we started working on the Bill. The fact that young people in Bulgaria relatively rarely attend cultural centers and this from now on becomes a trend for their whole lives because they, when in the first few years of their maturity do not enter the theater or go only to a chalga concert, they actually lose their connection with culture and lose the need for culture. This is undeniable and I think it is a fact for our society and there is hardly anyone who can challenge it. The fact that at the moment the state does not provide similar mechanisms to stimulate the participation of young people and their presence in the halls is also, in my opinion, undeniable. Whether other mechanisms can be made to achieve the same effect may, but I am absolutely convinced that the mechanism that we offer through the Cultural Check Act is a working mechanism. Because, in fact, it represents additional funding for all cultural institutes, which, however, goes through stimulating the consumption of culture, that is, it is not just about pouring in some money, which is absolutely false, but that through this mechanism we are not just giving money to cultural institutes, we are not just asking them to strengthen their youth content, we are not just motivating them to think about how they can bring young people into Bulgaria into cinemas and concert halls, but we are actually raising this consumption, which is the huge minus of our modern society. For me, all these goals are an absolute fact. And the argument that this will not work, because I have heard a lot of such arguments during the Commission cannot be true because it is a fact that an absolutely similar law from which we actually took a large part of the texts works in Italy. He has worked for several years and worked not with the sum of 200 BGN, which we have offered for Bulgaria, but with the amount of 500 euros offered by the Italian Government and which is currently given in the same way. For colleagues who haven't understood yet, because not everyone is dealing with what the so-called cultural check is, it is not money that is given by hand to some people who can spend on everything. It is about a computer platform administered by the Ministry of Culture and where a computer platform on one side is registered, i.e. the people who are 18 years old and, on the other hand, the cultural institutes are registered, i.e. theaters, cinemas, halls and so on. The deals are carried out on this platform, i.e. every young person buys his ticket from the platform, these people do not have access to money. They have access to rights, and the money is subsequently transferred directly from the Ministry to the state budget, through the Ministry of Culture of the Cultural Institutes. So theaters and cinemas will get the money, but they will get it directly from the Ministry, young people are actually making a check, that is, they're just saying, they're saying what they're gonna spend that money on. One of the main problems in modern Bulgaria is uneven access to culture. Inequality, unfortunately, in Bulgaria is huge in all areas of life, but in terms of culture it is one of the toughest. Because the inequality in culture means that I have been two mandates a member of Silistra and I know that Dulovo can have a lot of cultural youth, but he simply has nowhere to consume culture because there is no theater there, because there is no concert halls there, because there is no opera there and there is not enough, and because at best he has to get on a vehicle, to get to Silistra, where to look at the local theatre, if he has a performance at all, because a few years ago we tried to close him and thank God, for now, a second attempt is being made. This is why we have provided for the opportunity to buy books, that is, the goal is not only where there are concert halls, not to make them travel 300 kilometers to see what is happening in the Bulgarian or world culture, they have the opportunity in Dulovo to order the book from the bookstore, including these costs for the delivery of the book can be part of the cultural check, if so judged the Ministry of Culture, and to receive the relevant book in Dulovo or wherever they want to read it. That is, part of the problem that culture does not reach the whole territory of the country is also solved in this bill, of course, not general, but it answers these questions. As far as these inequalities are concerned, this is, in my opinion, extremely important, because in the end, we are missing entire generations. We have huge territories of the country that are deprived of any access to culture. By the way, the most important thing is that this bill gives the Minister of Culture huge opportunities. Because the platform we are talking about, where absolutely all cultural institutes have to be registered and have an interest in being registered, because they will receive money from there, it will actually represent the country's largest cultural poster. There, everything that is happening in the state from a newly published book in a new concert, in a new theatre performance, through a newly opened museum, all of this will stand on this cultural poster. You will be able to see the entire cultural life of the state of this poster. And, most importantly, this poster will be run by the Ministry of Culture. In other words, whether the cultural check will be used for chalga concerts or not, it is a decision of the Ministry of Culture. Depending on what you upload to the poster, if the Ministry of Culture doesn't want to have one, I don't know the singers, but one of them just won't put it in the poster. These young people can't buy it through this poster, they can go to a concert and pay for it, but they can't through this mechanism. In other words, the Minister of Culture is given a huge tool to guide the right way of using culture in Bulgaria. Along with that, what will be on the front page of this poster? Will the opera productions, the ballets, or will Slavi Trifonov stand at the front? This is a question that is given in the rights of the Minister of Culture and the administration concerned to solve it, a highly powerful instrument from which, in my opinion, no self-respecting Minister of Culture would be deprived, and I have no idea how the Ministry of Culture could give a negative opinion on this bill. By the way, I can see that the ten minutes are running out...... my further speech to be deducted from the time of the group. Within this poster we give key opportunities to the Ministry for Cultural Management. There's something else about the poster. The bill provides for something that Italians do and which, in my opinion, is extremely useful. Yes, it is related to an expense which is not large, however, in relation to the cultural check. The cost is that every year the Minister of Culture sends a letter, physically by post, to every person who is 18 years old, telling him: "Young girl or girl, we are very proud that you are a Bulgarian citizen, that you have from now on all the rights of a Bulgarian citizen. We rely on you because...... and so on, whatever text they want to write to him. And we're giving you the opportunity to use this cultural check in a way that you see fit. If he wants, he may not send this letter, but to me this letter from the Minister of Culture to every Bulgarian citizen is a patriotic idea. On top of that, it is supported by the specific minister, because his signature will stand below whoever this minister is. This is already the way in which you pay attention to every Bulgarian citizen who is 18 years old, and the authority tells him that man, we know that there is you, we know that you have needs and we tell you that we are ready to meet some of these needs in this way. Does the state have money to bear this expense? In the previous report of the Committee on Culture, it said that it would cost 15 million. I have asked for an opinion from the EGRAON how many are the people who are 18 years old in 2017 and 2018 and how many are expected to be for 2019? The largest number is now in 2018. " 76 thousand, and further down to 71 " 72,000 people. This means that prostate arithmetic means that if absolutely all people use their right and withdraw their money on this check, the maximum budget expenditure this year will be the 15 million they were talking about. For the next years, it'll be even smaller. However, since we are absolutely convinced, as it shows, by the way, the practice in Italy that they do not enjoy 100% and do not even enjoy 50%, then really for those who will be users, this whole thing will cost the state between 7 and 8 million maximum. Make a reference to the money spent outside this government's budget. In the last three months alone, they're over a billion. One billion leva, which spent everything on everything, outside the budget, without a decision of the National Assembly!? If anyone wants to convince me right now that the 7 million that have to sit for the cultural check is a financial obstacle to that, but this is absolutely not serious! There can't be such an argument! At least I guarantee you now that this will remain in the transcripts, and I will remind you of it in a year. I guarantee you that in the budget we will be defending for 2019 in a few months, the increase in money for the Ministry of Culture will be more than 7 million in terms of the logic of the pure increase in gross domestic product and the percentage it borrows. The money provided for the cultural check is practically in the budget and there is no problem to find it. I have heard in the Committee on Culture that, if you see, we will now get together, we will be very wise and we will come up with a better mechanism than this. I don't mind, and without being a member of the Committee on Culture, if someone starts thinking of a better mechanism than this, I'll get involved and do my best to sign it out as best we can. But the better mechanism doesn't interfere with this one! This is a mechanism that will work, which works in countries of Europe, which makes sense because it does not simply represent pouring money and it is a mechanism that will ultimately lead to better results for this governance now. And for this government, for this minister at the moment! That is why I am amazed at the negative opinion of the Ministry of Culture. Colleagues from GERB, I did not expect you to accept the Bill, but to get to the point that Boyl Banov as Minister of Culture in my preliminary conversation with him, when I told him in detail about the Bill, to tell me that he was two-handed about the Bill, and this is a Bill that he would support, because it makes sense, and the next day he would stop picking up my phone and give me a negative opinion that he has signed below, excuse me, but this is, in my opinion, out of sound logic, and by the way, out of your interest! The fact that BSP has proposed this bill and it would be adopted at the moment does not mean that BSP will apply it! Your Minister will apply it, your majority will apply it! You can also make real policies for people with this thing! That we have said that we have imported it, well, tell you how you will then perform it! Collect all the culturtrectors to ask them exactly how you want them, because whether there will be a chalga inside or not depends on the Minister of Culture depends on the Regulation provided for in this bill. You're gonna be the one to decide these things. You will have the opportunity to hear each of these culturtrectors to find out what they want. You will have the opportunity to hear all the youngsters. By the way, at the few events we have done here, young people who have nothing to do with BSP came to our events to support not BSP but came to support the cultural check. This is about whether we are dealing with real policies, because if we are dealing with real policies, this policy is good, or we are dealing with political guerrilla because BSP has introduced it. I'll wait with interest for the arguments. I heard some of them. The Ministry of Finance says there is a sentence there that these arguments are out of taxation, because it will be very complicated if we have to impose tax rates on tickets with the corresponding VAT, because the VAT is in anyway, but they are out of income taxes. A very big problem was that it destroyed the system that the 7 million would go without income taxes. Well, the Ministry of Finance has to offer a way to get into income taxation, which is their problem. Or instead of 200 leva. make it 170 BGN so that the 30 BGN can be made. ..where income taxes will be, to do with them what they want. This is the only serious argument I have read about this bill. Everything else, the statements of how, you see, that we were going to give the children some money and it was insulting to the children that the state would give them money to go to the theatre. And when his father gives it to him, why isn't he offended? What's the difference? Do these kids go to the theater with their own money? Someone's always giving them these to go to, aren't they? The same thing can be changed in the Law and not in 18 years. If you think this is better, let's do it for the 16-year-olds. A mechanism can be made. By the way, Malta has decided so. It's there for a smaller age so that collective visits can be used. I mean, get in and take them through school and so on. So there is a mechanism for each of these things, as long as we want to solve it. I'm telling you honestly! I didn't expect you to accept it when BSP brought it in. But that the Ministry of Culture will give me a negative opinion, that means that this Minister of Culture condemns himself. I want to see him. Help me, you guys. I want to sit in a studio with Boyl Banov about this, argue about this particular one. I'm not going to ask anything else, just on this bill. I seriously doubt he'll come out. Now, in front of everyone, I say it, I want this conversation to be held, and let it be Vezdi Rashidov as President of the Commission. Two against one! They, the two of us, want to sit down and talk about it, do they make sense of this bill and what, and see the arguments why they are gone! Excuse me, but both from the opinion of the Committee on Culture and from the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, unfortunately, has a guilty conscience. I call on you to make this support for the Law, and I say to you once again, of this interest will be given to all young citizens of Bulgaria, but not least the majority currently ruling. You can take the positives out of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u143	Thank you, Mr. Kutev, for the detailed and emotional presentation of the Bill. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I also took an attitude to the Commission. I will very well say that for me the purpose of this law is well-meaning. We all agree that there is a problem with cultural moods in young people. Of course, problems are complex in this area. I and the Commission did not support this law because I have a conceptual problem with it. I don't think he's going to solve that. Indeed, Mr. Kutev is developing a very large-scale concept, and now from the stand, but the law itself affects very few people................................................................................................................................................ Secondly, there is a merger of the notions of art and art. And in the Commission, I said it.. culture and art are two different things. Culture is the big, large-scale framework. It's where the values come in. If you will, religions enter culture. Art is a part of culture. In this sense, the issue of bringing up the young generation goes primarily through education. I also suggested that we have joint meetings with the Education Committee, think about how value attitudes and attitudes to culture and art are formed in schools, so that, when he is 18 years old, one person doesn't have to give him a voucher to go to the theater for free. I'm having trouble going to the theater for free! We cannot form the attitude that art is a cheap product. Art is an expensive product. Art is an expensive thing! If we want to have worthy artists who are respected in society, we cannot raise an attitude in which art is presented as some kind of mass education and culture. Of course, art is subsidised by the state, unlike Italy, by the way, where there are no state theatres. Theatres here receive a subsidy anyway, if we talk about theatres and cultural institutes at all, which will be stimulated through this measure. Again, I am well-intentioned to continue to have this conversation, to continue to think about options, but options that, first, cover much more people and cover them as soon as they form their cultural attitudes. Let's include education in this. The Ministry of Culture is dealing with the end result and now, as it comes to the Ministry of Culture, we have the set of attitudes that do not help us, a man 18 years old who does not have a habit of going to the theater or barely knows how to read, we in a voucher to get him to read!? I agree with something else. I would agree that there is uneven access to a cultural product in the country. It's a fact! Although everywhere, perhaps in any area, there is theater, for example, but not everyone in the area has access to it. In this regard, I would also call on the Minister, for example, for a greater movement of theatres and a journey of state cultural institutes. But that's another question, he's not connected to vouchers. It is related to quite another thing and I am convinced that the Ministry, too, will talk to the Minister, to take some measures in this regard to give access to culture. The state and its funding and subsidization of cultural institutes is related to having access to them, not just to have some culture, so that we can go abroad and say: "We have culture! This is not the purpose of state policy in culture. The main goal is to form cultural and value attitudes, so the state gives money for culture, so it also gives for education. I know that the left thesis is that people just have to educate themselves and go to the theater themselves. But that's not it! The state has a purpose and this law is a good reason to have this conversation. I agree and thank Mr. Kutev for making efforts for him. I hope this conversation will be continued, but in a much deeper conversation and in depth to be resolved, to treat not the symptoms but the causes of the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. The lines of Mr. Kutev, and you, Mr. Ermenkov. It's a line, isn't it? Third line, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u146	Mr. Bikov, this is now our second conversation with you on this subject. A few things that I have tried to write down from your speech that I strongly disagree with. First of all, very few people are concerned, you say, because these were the 18-year-olds. It affects all Bulgarian citizens from now on if the Law is adopted. All those who are now 18 and who will be 18 from now on, which means that in 20 years the entire generation of Bulgaria will have gone through this. There's not a lot of them! These are all Bulgarian citizens who do it. The idea of the difference between culture and art and mass art may have some advantage, though, that I am an artist and that is my education, but here mass is usually a quality of culture and not of art. What we are proposing here is a mass culture, that is, culture and education being mass, and art does not concern it. It really is part of the cultural process, really will enter the art money through the cultural check, but we are dealing with other processes. Yes, they are mass, but they are cultural, and they cannot be any other. They should be from the point of view of the state. Not to mention the left-right qualification. It is not about left and right, but it is about a pragmatic bill which is deciding specific objectives at the moment. The latter is already for the Education Committee, which will do something. Let him do it, I'm sure she can do something. For value attitudes that were not created, that is exactly the problem.. that they were not created in the process of education. That is precisely the aim of the Bill: to correct a defect in the process of our current education of uncreated attitudes, so that we can create attitudes that have been missed in education. What I said before is if you have concrete suggestions on how to strengthen value attitudes, their development and their formation through education, I am open. But go through supporting this, because this mechanism will work, and then we will work the other with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Ermenkov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u148	Dear Mr. Bikov, access to art and access to culture does not mean access to the building and you have to get into it and buy a ticket for this thing. When we talk about uneven access, this means that there are people who cannot afford to buy this ticket, which is also the idea of our proposal: to be able, apart from being stimulated, to have the physical opportunity to visit the relevant cultural establishments. And something else: don't give us the liberal ideas that we're about everyone doing education and everyone going to learn, and so on. This is inherently liberal, and with us this needs to be regulated in some form, state, politically determined, and not, just like that, violently, if someone decides to go somewhere, to do whatever they want. Finally, Mr. Bikov, I very much ask you, I agree that perhaps this bill has some shortcomings, but they can be corrected between first and second readings. If we continue, as you express ourselves, to think about the problem and to work on it sometime in the future, with each year we miss generations that can be a building unit for the future. Yeah, 16, 18 years is too late, and we need to start somewhere. Let's start with culture, with the cultural check and at the same time the education to build those value systems in children who then drive them without a check, when they have the opportunity, to visit culture and the check to be only for those who do not have the physical ability to do so. In this situation, perhaps we will no longer oppose a culture of education, but we will bring them into being and create them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Third line please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to extend the group's time. Dear colleague Bikov, we are still at the first reading of this bill, and I did not hear any disagreement with the principles of this bill in your speech. Indeed, between first and second readings you can make your suggestions as you think they are good. Regarding the objectives of the state, you mentioned in your statement what the state really is. Colleague, this is a community of people who are mostly united around common cultural values. When the state, in the absence of a social policy, in the case of a sinking economy, cannot ensure that large groups of people have access to the cultural values of those commons, then one of its objectives is precisely to provide that access, so that the state has it as such, to incorporate these groups into those cultural values that are located in our country, in our history, which is the subject of our future in practice. These are the objectives of this bill to enable those Bulgarian citizens who do not have the financial opportunity to get their necessary, vital touch on culture, and the state to provide them with this opportunity. There's nothing wrong with that thing. On the contrary, this is vital for the existence of any state as such, and I do not see why you will vote against................................ You should support it if you really care about the development of culture and our country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor to answer your lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kutev, you yourself said that you will not be covered all. Less than 50% of your calculations will use this voucher at all, so they're not all. So I redirected you to education because education will actually cover everyone, because there is also a mandatory element. For mass culture and art, I agree, we have no distinction in this matter. For value attitudes this is a very important conversation and it is more important than talking about this law, because I have the suspicion that we do not have a consensus on value attitudes that we need to form in children. I don't think we have a political consensus. By the way, last week, when we had a debate here about whether we should honor with a minute of silence some people who were killed in concentration camps and prisons, we did not reach a consensus and we are not currently achieving it, as I see it. Which values will we form? Here, this is another occasion for a very long conversation. Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Popov asked the same question about people having no money for a ticket or having access to culture. I will tell you that in Sofia, where are the most expensive theater tickets, they cost between two and four boxes of cigarettes. Why?! They'd be worth a lot more if the state didn't subsidize them. In this sense the state subsidizes the art, it does not wait on this law that you propose to start subsidizing the art. She subsidized it and that's why the tickets in the country are 5 leva. and they're worth a pack of cigarettes, and anyone who wants could go. For liberally and conservatively, now I don't think this is the conversation, and otherwise I'm ready to have this conversation. I just want to say that I'm not a liberal, I don't know why Mr. Ermenkov thinks that. For my comment on the Law at first reading, this is what Mr. Popov asked for. I have a conceptual difference and for me this approach and this goal should be pursued in education and not in culture. And that's what I said: let's see where the causes are, not treat the symptoms. The fact that a small part of Bulgarian young people do not visit cultural institutes is the result of educational policy, let's say, some gaps. Let's make arrangements there so we don't have to give vouchers. Your intention is noble otherwise. The problem is, in my opinion, it won't solve the big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u153	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. A statement? [[Noise and lines.]] Let's follow the rules, Mr. Rashidov. Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm so glad there's a debate on culture. You know how rare it is, let's not say it hardly happens. There are always attempts to turn things back to communism, fascism and so on. We're talking about a whole other thing right now. I really cannot believe that this proposal was rejected immediately, and I heard it earlier in the Commission, and before that I heard that one such thesis was launched, which shifted everything, and almost devalued the work of the artists. Anton Kutev with so much time and so clearly explained that this money goes to the artists. Doesn't mean someone goes and watches free theater. There's no such thing, on the contrary. It is precisely for the work of my colleagues, for which it is one of the reasons why I am here, that is a great opportunity in some way to help and increase their salaries. Not to tell you what they are, that the salaries of the artists in Bulgaria are largely below the social minimum, so let's not shift things. There's no such thing that this cultural check means we'll play for free, right? If anyone decides if a young creature decides that 200 leva. to use them for their favorite theater performances, this means that this money goes to the theater for salaries, fees and so on. I really call on you: let us not immediately reject such proposals, let us try and see what happens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u156	With great respect to Mrs. Yotova, I think that what we have expressed is not what she said here to you. It's not about actors accepting that they play for free, it's about what it feels like in the audience that goes to the halls in concerts using the cultural check. The problem is that visiting a cultural event must be a process of awareness. Culture does not require mechanical presence in the hall, in the gallery or anywhere else. The person who gets this opportunity needs to know what it's about. So... [[(Noise and replica by BSP for Bulgaria]] Yeah, that's Mrs. Yotova's line, that's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u157	It's a line, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u158	... Because the person who enters the room must not feel that he has received some piece of cake something that is free for him, the actor can get his fee. We're talking about the attitude of the audience. Therefore, in fact, philosophy in the Law is wrong, and should be set to form a taste from early childhood, so that the 18-year-old person can enter the hall, in the art gallery prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Another line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to ask you in no way to underestimate the intelligence of the Bulgarians. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Art is by no means a piece of cake. I am sure that there are many young people who are currently 18 years old, or will become that old, but, unfortunately, their parents are not on this wave, they do not care about their children being brought up, being brought up in the spirit of culture, of art. I think there are a lot of young people that parents wouldn't give money to go see a favorite play. Thus, they will have the opportunity to have their own will and to go see something they like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to tell you that I'm very, very happy today because there's been talk of culture here for half an hour now. As my colleague Nona Yotova said, I am very happy and I hope we can talk more about culture and art in this Chamber because this is important. Another thing I wanted to say as an actor is that very often we play bought halls. Ransoms from different companies. Then half the viewers don't come and the other half don't like it. That's how the spectator's psyche is, that when you pay a ticket, or if you pay an even more expensive ticket, then you like it, you need it, you need it, you need it. I am afraid that this thing will put the artists in a situation where their work, as my colleague Bikov said, is getting much cheaper. I want to tell you that culture has much more serious problems and as colleague Nona Yotova noticed: let's think about how artists in all areas, people who work in culture, have bigger salaries, because wages are really shamefully low. Let's talk about it and think about it. Personally, I will not support this bill, because I believe that art is something elitist, should be higher than viewers and viewers want to reach it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u164	Dear Mr. Budinov, dear colleagues! We're not talking about bought-out halls here. This isn't about taking the whole class to a theater show. This is about each of these people making their choice and practically buying a ticket. We're just giving him a chance to do it without the money in his pocket if he's 18 years old and if he meets the conditions. I mean, the thesis that now some people are going to buy a ticket and they're not going, it's not serious. They have to get on the site, they have to choose what they want, they have to see. They have to make certain efforts. Nobody's gonna do that thing without wanting to go into the gym later. It's not the whole class and the whole group. That can't be right. With regard to other arguments about money, see, in this country a million and a half people are around and below the poverty line. For these people, whether it costs 20, 40 or 60 BGN, each of these amounts is large. The bill is aimed at them. Yeah, they're not gonna use the hundred percent, but those who want to go and don't have the money are targeted at them. And this will raise wages because it's extra money in the culture system. And one last argument. I don't know why we talk all the time about theaters. This isn't just about theaters, it's about books. By the way, the state is currently practically in no way stimulating the Bulgarian book release. Not in any way. As long as there is a million and a half million dollars in the books bought here per year to enter the publishing houses in those who are really engaged in publishing. A real opportunity to help a sector that is not supported at all. Not to mention the possibility of the Ministry of Culture to decide whether to finance only the Bulgarian authors or to finance others. Whether it will finance only Bulgarian music or which wants another. That's for the Department of Culture to decide. It's a big instrument, and I don't see any arguments against it. These arguments that you have expressed are not real arguments against this bill, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm addressing the ruling majority. We give these young people the right to have a conscious choice and you should know this because they will choose in the post office, as it became clear from all the statements of colleagues on the left that they will have the right to choose whether they will buy a ticket to theater, museum, book. And this is our young man's conscious choice. You should know that when we had a meeting with representatives of culture here, if memory serves me right in the West Hall, there wasn't a single empty chair. If these people in this facility had heard your arguments now, Mr. Bikoff and all the others, all the chairs would have remained empty. I assure you. Because I didn't hear a negative opinion. They asked, they were interested, they understood the idea, they came into it and they approved. I think the fact that you weren't there leads to your misunderstanding at the moment what is actually being proposed. And why this thing works in countries of Europe. After you say, "Yes, and we are well-intentioned," you said: "We are convinced that your idea is well-intentioned, then follow it, is it not for our youth?"! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. And a third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am under the impression that colleagues in the ruling majority have not read and have not properly familiarized themselves with our bill. What we propose is young people's access to cultural events. Access! I will introduce you to a national representative survey of the reasons why young people do not attend cultural events. 53% of people say these are the expensive tickets. You know what it's like in a small village to go and give 20 leva. for theater? That's not gonna happen! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Or 15 leva. [[GERB lines.]] How could there not be? Please, how can there be no productions of 15 leva? The ticket?! The young man, who is 18 years old and lives 30 km from the district town in which there is a theatre, cannot go to the theatre because he lives with minimal funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u169	Let the theater go to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u170	41% of these people say there are no cultural events in their places. And you are currently limiting the access of those young people who are willing but who do not have a financial opportunity to attend a cultural event. Why do you leave them without cultural life? Why leave them without access to cultural events? Because it's easier that way, or because it's left-handed? And another study of................................................................................. If you want to take it into account, if you want to vote as you choose. A third of the Bulgarians have never gone to the theatre or to the cinema. And by this indicator, we are last in line with Romania. If this data suits you, vote against it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. You have the right to the back. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u172	Mr. President, Members of Parliament, on the occasion of the previous speech, I would like to say that the tickets are not expensive at all. Theater tickets are more expensive all over the world. In the country we have never played more than 12 leva, so don't say that there are tickets for 20 leva. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For concerts, you know how expensive tickets are. Compare in other countries, in London and so on. [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't want to sit down yet. I want to keep staying here. I want to tell you that when you say any data, be precise and think about it, not just throwing information. It's really a good idea, not a bad idea, but I don't think [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] It would have worked. You have to think about the future of children, they have to be brought up early. And here, family and education are also very important. A voucher can't solve problems all of a sudden. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u173	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wish we didn't miss this debate. Let's not hysterize him. Indeed, three are the reasons why young people in Bulgaria do not go to cultural events, and they are expressed in a study, which quoted my colleague just now, which was prepared by the Bulgarian Association of Employers in the field of culture. 53% because the tickets are expensive. Lack of such events in the respective locality.. 41%. Lack of family encouragement south 33%. These are the three main problems.. one is financial, one is economic, geographical and national, and one is cultural, family. To all three questions, this law gives elements of an answer. He does not decide everything, but we are here for the first time talking about culture since this National Assembly started working in May. At least on a specific bill. As long as we wait to solve everything, there'll be nothing left. Everyone wins by this law. The people, beneficiaries, children, 18-year-old girls and boys who will be able to go without giving money. They win cultural institutions, for which there will be a new financial resource worth about 15 million. lv., for which they will have to compete. Competing for it, they will also have to do that content that attracts young people, because when this new site opens, which has potential secured by 15 million. BGN, become one of the most important cultural sites in Bulgaria virtually when this website opens up.. all ballet, theatrical, musical and all other cultural events, alternative scene, will be in competition for the attention of those newly created, solvent consumers of culture. This will restore both youth demand and the need for supply. It's a new resource. After all, what is the common cultural aspect when we talk about education, promotion and so on? This is the creation of a new model of thinking for young people who are gathering and wondering what they will do tonight. And they're talking to each other. One says, "How long do you have left on the map?" They sit down together to see which place to go to spend their evening. This is the creation of a common cultural memory, because these people, especially as our country goes, at the age of 18 will go to a production together, at 18 and a half years will already be at foreign universities. And what will be left of Bulgaria will be the lines of Mr. Budinov and Mrs. Yotova, not our lines here. And if he forgets them, then there is no salvation. It's not about the 15 million. The law helps everyone. It is applied in other countries. There is no reason not to apply it in Bulgaria, except for one reason the political stubbornness that does not come from us. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u175	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Manev, I'm just asking you not to overexcited the left side of the room too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u176	I'm offended. Then I'll ask for a procedure in the manner of conduct. You're up to something. I have a very serious line, despite the mood in the room. Is your bill an option in which you will somehow distinguish concerts for example? Because there are companies currently doing this only concerts in a difficult financial condition. Isn't the purpose of funding them through your bill? Because I just heard from your mouth how you say that you should become such a supply of the cultural product that you cause young people to choose it. Is this about pop folk? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wonder if it's simple, it's interesting, because it'll be interesting for young people to be sure. I'm also curious... [[BSP's line for Bulgaria]] Get up and tell me right. That's not how you sit down. That's how you stand up. [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My other question to you is: since we're going to finance this way and make our culture and our art race for the interest of young people, what books will they start printing publishing in this sector? What kind of movies are they gonna start running in this sector? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what you're gonna tell me. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u177	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Is there another line? I won't. Come in for an answer, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u178	Dear Mr. Manev, dear Mr. Chairman! Excuse me, dear Mr. Manev, thank you for this remark. It raises an important question, namely for the content. This question was put to the number of discussions that preceded the drafting of this bill. It is a pity that you did not participate in them. This would have helped us. I'm using this case before I answer your question, to tell you that this bill is not improvisation. We have actually done a series of discussions, and we have also studied the whole practice of imposing the so-called cultural check that exists in different countries. The key to this bill is the so-called platform. We do not aim to censor content, to say what is good and what is not. The debate is coming and when we start talking about what is Bulgarian culture and how should it be encouraged? This is about a platform entirely in the hands of the Ministry of Culture and regulations that will determine how it will function. How the supply will be positioned and how the young person will be attracted to choose and go to the ballet, for example, rather than buy a book or go to this set-up rather than the other one, will depend on the way they will be proposed. There is the filter, if you will, and the opportunity to promote one type of culture or another. In terms of competition. Yes, I say most frankly, many of our cultural institutions, museums and others need to encourage them to adapt their content, to make it more attractive for young people and not so young people. That extra resource would help them. If your line is to think on the substance of how to implement this bill, then we must support it at first reading in order to start working on its specific offer. But if your line is just some bullying to get us to justify ourselves, then I take it back and I don't answer you at all. [[Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u179	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u180	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time to the vote on the bill under consideration and the bill under discussion. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u181	Any other opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Zablyanov's proposal to extend the working time until the bill in question is completed. Vote 149 MPs: 61, against 71, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! About the proposal we are discussing today. As an offer, it's an idea of six. However, written as a text and solving problems pair! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Again, good intentions with no coverage. And it's high time you learned, I don't know who in BSP writes your stuff, but really find good specialists and prepare you. I can't understand why from the 18-year-olds up, but 16-year-olds, should they be supported for Bulgarian culture too?! What about the kids who go to the puppet theater? I mean, you're not going to the puppet theater, but you're going to the other theater. What about musical performances or concerts? I don't agree to give money for foreign art. If you want to make such a proposal, do it for Bulgarian art. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I do not agree to go to concerts of Ceca, of Saban and all other such and Bulgarian money...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u183	You don't read! You don't read!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u184	I listened to you carefully. I didn't yell. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've been listening to you carefully, and I haven't yelled at you, so you're gonna have to hold me. [[Noise.]] I don't agree in any way. Why didn't you suggest for the films that were financed by the Bulgarian state or which were filmed partially or entirely on Bulgarian territory that this thing should apply?! Something to do with Bulgaria, to really support Bulgarian culture. You are proposing a common text to flow some money to certain companies. What about these electronic cards at the Faculty, Stolipinovo and so on? Do you want me to tell you? [[Replyes: yes!]] All the companies will immediately find all these 18-year-olds and all these funds one part in their pocket, the others will collect them. In no way have you defended either the interest of the state or the interest of Bulgarian culture and art. And that is why you should probably suggest the following: museums, theatres or things that are definitely part of Bulgarian culture, and not to allow foreign culture to receive the Bulgarian money. Because the young people today will go to: a concert by Lili Ivanova or Cetza Velickovic?! And where will the money go? And what problem do we solve.. we impose Bulgarian culture or foreign culture?! So when you make proposals, first, consider them and make them really in the interests of Bulgarian culture and Bulgarian interests. Don't do Frankenstein all the time! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u185	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Kutev. You want a line, Mr. Velkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u186	Mr. Angelov, the classical Bulgarian genius said: "Pencho was, read, Pencho is not reading. He goes on to say that Pencho works, Pencho works, and I'm not gonna do it again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You can't speak on this bill, and you can't say it was written illiterate without reading it. Personally, I, then Krum Zarkov now, from this tribune, have explained three times to you the question that you ask that the content of whether or not to listen to chalga is very well thought out how it will be, and it will be done with a regulation of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture, personally Minister Banov, whom you have chosen, voted for him, will determine whether or not you will listen to chalga. He'll tell you what's in the poster. They can't buy anything that's not on this platform. Whether Ceca Velickovic will be on the platform or your personal performance in a pub will decide the Minister of Culture. How many times do we have to explain it to you? Read before you speak! The things we've written are very thoughtful. The fact that you are currently engaged in political guerrilla is a matter of low morals. Excuse my opinion. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u187	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Velkov, here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, and I will say two words in a poem form by a famous Bulgarian poet: In relation to the line I make, I would like an analogue with that updated National Security Strategy, where we have written something to protect national interests, and a conscious need of the nation, where one of the lasting national interests is the preservation of national and cultural identity. Dear colleagues, we are talking about art, we are talking about theatre, we are talking about the possibility of developing the idea of young people keeping this national and cultural identity. You, of course, won't buy it, Mr. Chairman, of the lines you say things we've already heard. I don't know who writes you the things in the BSP, but this is for a couple............................................................ is not with....................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, let's be precise, let's be focused. We offer something that is feasible with very little money. Since we are talking about theatre, I will tell you this: I am an honorary visitor to the theatres in Sofia. Unfortunately, with the exception of a few people here on this side, I don't often see you in theater halls. That's my view, of course. I'll say this: don't rush it like Mr. Kirilov said this morning: it's not gonna happen! [[Heckling]] Take your time, don't throw a big stone, don't say a big word, because if tomorrow the chief artist of the Republic tells you it's gonna happen, you'll see how you're gonna vote back. Thank you. [[Noise, lines and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u189	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You didn't finish much under the rules. There's another line from Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, listening to your speech, I cannot help but think of a phrase spoken by Jim Morrison, who says that the disease of the culture of the 20th century, but we are now talking clearly about the 21st century, the inability to feel your reality. It had nothing to do with the reality of your speech. You have neither read the Law nor have any idea of what is happening in the state despite the data being exported here by colleagues! Fifty-three percent of Bulgarian citizens, young Bulgarian citizens, cannot afford to go to buy a theatre ticket, buy a book because for them not 15, and 5 leva are many. Because he can't survive this month to get into the next one with the money he earns as a minimum wage, with the commitments he has every month to his family. Therefore, they are not granted access by the state, and the state is built on a foundation called culture, honourable colleague Angelov. The state has not provided this basis since it has not provided access to this basis.. to culture, you have just said: "I do not agree to give money to the Bulgarian citizens. For what, fellow Member, so that they can buy a book so that they can acquire cultural values, be educated, go to the theatre, go to the movies, go to some other cultural event?! You don't want them to be educated to know why. You do not want this culture to be introduced into our society, to have cultural people in Bulgaria more and more. Because when a person lacks culture, especially the young generation, it is easily manipulated and you can do that in elections. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u191	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u192	Colleagues, be civil about culture you speak. [[The National Representative Anton Kutev insists that the President give the floor for the duplicate of the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u193	Take it easy, guys! I understand, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman... [[crowd cheering]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u195	Can't you understand? Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u196	Mr. Chairman, time's up, please close the session, I won't speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-07.u197	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Rashidov. Before closing today's session, I remind you that the next regular plenary session is tomorrow at 9:00 on the adopted programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
