ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, 16 May 2018, in connection with the upcoming celebration 24 May "Day of the Bulgarian Education and Culture and of the Slavic Literature," the possibility of dislocating the meeting of the National Assembly next week was discussed. In this regard, I propose that the National Assembly adopt ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 48, para. Article 3 in conjunction with Article 3 106, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 22 May 2018 at 1300 on the following agenda: 1. Draft decision setting a new deadline for carrying out an audit of compliance of the additional costs/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers' Decree for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018 awarded to the Court of Auditors by a decision of the National Assembly of 23 February 2018. The Committee on Budget and Finance was the importer on 17 May 2018. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importers are Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018, adopted at the first vote on 9 May 2018. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018, adopted at the first vote on 9 May 2018. II. The National Assembly shall not hold a plenary session on 25 May 2018. The parliamentary control provided for this meeting shall be held on 23 May 2018. ............................................... Please vote, fellow Members! Vote 157 MPs: 146, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Messages: - On 17 May 2018, in implementation of the decision of the National Assembly of 2 March 2018, adopted in connection with the debates on the inquiry by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov, received from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova a report containing specific proposals related to the possibilities for realization of the assets under the Project for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" including the separation of assets and liabilities for the project into a separate legal entity. The report is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that, in connection with the conduct of a joint Bulgarian-Romanian Rathing Teaching, Beyond the Horizon 2018, in the period 25 May 2018 until 1 June 2018 by its order, he has authorised the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of servicemen with the necessary equipment and equipment (without ammunition), as well as units supporting and providing equipment by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Romania and of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Macedonia. The training will be held in the area of a Bulgarian-American facility, a training polygon. The same is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for the Preparation of the Defence Headquarters, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence in 2018 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions led by other (other country or organisation) military forces. The notification was received on 16 May 2018. No 803-09-23 and granted to the Defence Committee. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of military personnel from the Air Force for the implementation of special flights to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence of Formation by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria along the routes: Sofia The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 17 May 2018. No 803-09-25 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we're moving to point one for today: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONS SCARED WITH REGARD TO THE INITIAL PRODUCTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018, adopted at first vote on 25 April 2018. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before the report, I request a procedure for admission for the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 136 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the draft Law on the amendment and supplement of the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018, adopted on the first vote on 25 April 2018. The Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: The Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u5	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, which the Commission proposes. They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall also be supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall also be supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 127, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Chapter 2 in the name of Section I, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u11	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u15	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 116 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u17	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u19	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u21	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u23	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u25	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u30	Under Paragraph 13, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall be supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u32	Under Paragraph 14, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u34	By § 15, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u36	Under Paragraph 16, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u38	Under Paragraph 17, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u40	Under § 18, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which shall be supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u42	By Paragraph 19, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u44	Under § 20, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 6 words are replaced by the most general psychological assessment of health and psychological condition. (b) c. 7 the words "the availability and extent of the threat' shall be replaced by "the threat'; (c) c. 8 the words "Include in the Programme for the Programme" shall be replaced by "Special Programme for the Programme." 2. The creation of para. 3: The proposal under para. 1 shall be reported to the Prosecutor General with an opinion from the Director of the Bureau of Protection on the possibility of providing and the type of measures for the prior protection of the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u46	By § 21, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21, which shall be supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Director of the Bureau of Defense shall, within the period of preliminary protection, submit to the Prosecutor General the opinion referred to in Article 1. 166, para. 1, t. 5. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "if the statements, explanations or information of the endangered person are essential for criminal proceedings, as well as the objectivity and extent of the threat' shall be replaced by the objective and extent of the threat, as well as the possibility of inclusion in the Protection Program; (b) c. 1 the word (s) is deleted immediately; (c) c. 3 the words "the judge' shall be replaced by "the judge'. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The order of the Prosecutor General shall be issued or the decision of the Council of Protection shall be adopted by the expiry of the preliminary protection period and shall be communicated to the authority which submitted the proposal through the Bureau of Protection. 4. The creation of para. 5. In cases of refusal to grant protection or of termination of the preliminary protection, the person shall be obliged not to disclose the information which has become known to him in connection with the protection provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 22. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u50	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u51	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 23, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u52	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u53	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 24, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u55	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u57	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u59	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u61	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u62	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u63	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u65	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... After art. 27 An additional provision shall be established with a new § 1: Additional provision. § 1. Within the meaning of this Act, the activities carried out directly by the Chief Prosecutor's Office for Protection activities to organise, secure and carry out special protection, organise and carry out personal physical security, under the terms and conditions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, force persons to be brought to a judicial authority, security and provision of investigative actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u67	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 31. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Final Provisions, § 1 to date becomes § 1a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u69	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 32. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u70	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u71	Statements? There aren't any. I put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u73	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 33, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u74	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34: ................. The protection measures laid down until the entry into force of this law shall be brought into force within three months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u75	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 34. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u77	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u78	Mr. President, honourable Members, I see that there is unanimity on the proposed bill, perhaps with the exception of this paragraph of the Transitional and Final Provisions proposing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, which, however, have no bearing on the amendments introduced to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with criminal proceedings. That paragraph proposes the removal of non-compliance and contradiction in the Criminal Procedure Code (NPC), as well as a change in the regime of appeal of the judicial acts terminating or suspending criminal proceedings. Changes are also envisaged in the proceedings of the appeal instance, which in turn leads me to express reservations to this paragraph of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure. I would like to point out that such amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which have nothing to do with the protection of witnesses, anonymity and their security and to do with this law, are violated the rules of the Law on Legislative Acts and, more precisely, art. 10 of it, which reads: The public relations of the same area are governed by one and not by several regulations of the same degree. I agree that the proposed changes are made with noble motives, I would say, with the aim of providing the victim with the necessary procedural guarantees in order to protect his fundamental rights and legitimate interests, but this should not be done by circumventing the law or seeking loopholes in our legislation. Unfortunately for all of us, this harmful legislative technique is applied systematically, but this does not mean that the National Assembly should tolerate it and use it as a practice. On the contrary, we must reject it and not support it. The Code of Criminal Procedure is a fundamental law, and we cannot put in a situation of surprise to fellow lawmakers and all others who work with this matter by changing by law basic qualified regulations. From the Bulgarian Socialist Party we cannot fail to take our position in the created vicious practices. I would like to point out that the remark made on the changes in the PPC is justified and is not a result of opposition policy or any nagging. While these amendments aim to eliminate inaccuracies that are supposed to be an obstacle to normal work, I must point out that no impact assessment has been made for them or an analysis of the consequences. That is why we will focus on the pragmatic approach to support the rest of the bill by voting against this and asking you not to support this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Baichev, I would not agree with your claim that the amendments proposed by § 35 to the Code of Criminal Procedure are inadmissible. On the contrary, as specified in the reasons of the importer's proposal, the changes in this paragraph, respectively, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, are two types and can be defined in two groups. The first group are those changes which follow directly and directly from the amendments to the Special Law. Here, in any case, we have the opportunity, a legal delegation, explicit authorisation as a legislator under the Law on Legislative Acts. You are talking about the second group of changes - those that are not in direct and immediate connection with the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with criminal proceedings - but which are the result of technical and procedural changes in relation to recent amendments that need clarification. Indeed, there is no such direct link, but we have proposed these changes precisely in order to improve the legislation that we have proposed and which is already being proposed, that is, they are in favour of the law. Here you did not refer to the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which mainly focuses on attacking this provision. We have looked at and discussed all the arguments in detail and essentially in the debate in the Legal Committee and I believe that each of these arguments has received a concrete answer. Therefore, we will continue to stand up for the proposals as they have been made by the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? There aren't any. Mr. Baychev? You're not gonna use the back. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 35, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u82	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...) in Annex 1 to art. 25, Section II shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words as well as persons included in the Programme for the Protection of Persons Threatened to Criminal Procedure are deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma, and finally added by the Bureau of Defense to the Prosecutor General. 3. A t is created. 9b: 9b. Detailed organisational and state structure of the Bureau of Defense with the Prosecutor General, details of the identity of the employees providing or implementing the special protection measures or activities under art. 14, para. 3 of the Law on the Protection of Persons Endangered in criminal proceedings, information on the organisation or implementation of special protection, establishment data or data which may help to identify persons in danger or protected within the meaning of that law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u83	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 36. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The proposal shall be adopted by which the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened to Criminal Procedure has been adopted in the second vote. Dear Members of Parliament, beginning of parliamentary control 11:00 p.m. I interrupt this session until the beginning of parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u84	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue our work with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 11 May 2018 to 17 May 2018: - Asked by the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Rumen Nikolov Georgiev to Rumen Porozhanov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 25 May 2018. We proceed to the service of the written answers: - supplement to a written response from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - addition to a written response from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - written answer from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Penev and Georgi Yordanov; - written answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - written answer from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - written answer from the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - written answer from the Minister of Health and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to two questions by the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - written answer from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - written answer from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Irena Anastasova; - written answer from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - written answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Pencho Milkov; - written answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva. The first issue of today's parliamentary control is to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. She will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev Petrov, Ivelina Vasilova Vasileva, Ivan Stefanov Valkov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vassileva and Asya Peeva on actions to ensure access of people in wheelchairs to the sea coast and waters. Please, Mr. Boychev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister! My question is provoked by my meeting on the reception day with the Life Generosity Foundation, which organizes and supports people with nervous muscle diseases, people with difficulty moving, and with the development of these people's condition they become still. They travel in wheelchairs and often depend on the help of others. After talking to the representatives of the Foundation, I realized that these citizens are currently unable to access the sea coast and the water itself. Due to the lack of trails and auxiliary facilities, they also have no access to the Black Sea waters. In a number of countries, this problem is settled. The Foundation has photos and models of built trails and facilities in other countries. From the Foundation "Generity for Life" they note that in Burgas there is access to the alleys of the Primorski park, which are the coastal alleys of Burgas, are mounted concrete ramps, allowing for wheelchair movement. After reaching the beach itself, however, the access of bikes that move the wheelchairs of these disabled people is impossible. In this regard, I believe that concessionaires and tenants of beach stripes should undertake to provide access to the water of all citizens. Given the approach of the active season, it will be a success for hard-to-move people to make full use of the beaches in the largest city on the southern Black Sea coast, namely Burgas. In this regard, I ask you to answer me whether some of the concessionaires on beach stripes on the territory of the municipality of Burgas will take action to ensure that people in wheelchairs are accessed to the sea coast and water, respectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Come in for an answer, Minister Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u87	Mr. Boychev, Mrs. Vasileva, Mr. Valkov, Mrs. Savateva, Mrs. Vassileva and Mrs. Peeva! The creation of conditions and guarantees for equality and full participation of disabled people in all areas of public life is a priority laid down in the Government Management Programme. The policy for addressing the need to increase the level of integration of people with disabilities is an important commitment in the work of the Ministry of Tourism. In this regard, after a number of meetings that we held with the disabled organisations last year, we are currently implementing specific long-term solutions through obligations that we have introduced to tenants and concessionaires on sea beaches, according to the signed anexes to the lease and concession contracts. Under these additional agreements that enter into force during the summer season this year, approaches and displacement pathways should be installed on 44 sea beaches to ensure access to and movement on the beaches of disabled people. It is a fact that due to the specific physicogeographic characteristics of each individual sea beach such as relief, slope, rocky areas and flooded water areas, not all beaches allow the deployment of moving pathways for persons with disabilities on the active beach area, as this would pose a direct danger to their health. In this sense, the Ministry actively undertook, evidently from the actions taken last year, to provide an accessible environment on the sea beaches in places where this is possible. The question you have asked builds on the measures already applied for people access to the beach by providing access to the beach itself and sea water. Such a comprehensive process requires further expertise, as it provides for the need to increase the level and qualification of water-saving activities in line with the specific needs of disabled people in order to ensure their safety and health in the first place. The construction and installation of the relevant platforms for access to sea water itself should also be consistent with the characteristics not only of the relief of the seashore but also with the characteristics of the specific sea currents. That is, only and the sole opinion of the Ministry of Tourism could not exhaust all the factors that should be taken into account when forming the final decision. Currently, two organizations for disabled people are members of the Public Council of the Minister of Tourism. I am convinced that through the constructive dialogue that we have with such organisations and through your support as MPs, we will find the right way together to reach a solution to this issue, taking into account all the objective circumstances and, firstly, with the rights of people with disabilities, ensure their 100% safety. Finally, I would like to add that we will in no way give up on the commitments we have made with regard to ensuring accessibility to sea beaches for disabled people, as well as guaranteeing the quality of the tourist product. We foresee effective and rigorous control with high intensity regarding compliance with all contractual obligations of tenants and concessionaires, including focusing on the effective obligations for mounting approaches and moving paths to ensure access and movement on the beaches of disabled people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I see that the Ministry of Tourism has taken quite seriously this case, which is really very serious and will ensure adequate accessibility for people with disabilities to the beach stripes and sea water respectively. I see that the process is advanced, a lot has been done by the Ministry and the concessionaires, but I think we need to build up and really work in this direction so that all people can have equal access to the beach and sea water, respectively. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back? Allow me to thank Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. He will answer a question from the National Representative Vassil Antonov about the means for effective dissecting and desaccharisation events in the municipalities along the Danube River. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this spring in the municipalities along the Danube River again appeared the problem of spreading mosquitoes, ticks and other insects, carriers of a number of infectious infections among humans and animals. For another year, I ask this question, but there is no change. The reason for this is the lack of sufficient funds, as well as the preventive and coordinated measures taken between the state and municipalities. In 2018, the need for such action increased due to the significant population of harmful insects. Local authorities have only since the end of April carried out the self-treated smoke and air spray, but there are no results. The measures are local, partial, there is no overall coordination between the municipalities in Bulgaria and our neighbour Romania, no funds, and their rational recovery. During this year the Association of Danube Municipalities was also late with the discussion, coordination and resolution of this problem. Only at the beginning of May began the consideration of this topic. The partial and insufficient treatment of the areas in the Danube municipalities significantly hinders the lifestyle of the residents and is a lasting prerequisite for reducing the tourist interest in this area. Dear Minister, are there any means to reduce the population of mosquitoes, ticks and other insects? When and what funds are allocated to municipalities along the Danube River? Given this year's significant population, are you planning additional funds in this direction? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question so asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u93	Madam President, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The protection of the living environment from various biological, chemical, physical and social factors that have a harmful effect on human health is regulated in the Health Act, which is the responsibility of the state, municipalities, legal and natural persons, i.e. all of us. In the present case, the assessment of the risk areas for taking effective dissection treatments, i.e. the fight against insects, the selection of preparations, methods and time limits for the treatment of areas, is one of the competences of the existing structures of the Minister of Health. In this case, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and Regional Health Inspections has been designated as such. The practical implementation of the necessary dissecting and desaccharisation events is the responsibility of municipalities, and these activities should be perceived by them as regular, albeit to a different extent not only along the Danube River. With regard to financial security, we consider it possible for municipalities within the framework of their approved annual budgets to be able to finance the activities themselves for such events in their own territories. Our confidence stems from the long-standing trends achieved in increasing the proceeds of property taxes, income and property income. By the way, the consolidated fiscal programme for 2018 provides for an increase in the own revenues of municipalities of 183,1 million or 8,7% nominal growth compared to the 2017 programme, as well as additional transfers approved by the annual State Budget Act for local activities, including the total matching subsidy. For 2018 only, compared to 2017, it was increased by 10 million. Protecting human health is undoubtedly the responsibility of each of us. We all need to make an effort with the necessary responsibility for protecting the environment. In this sense, residents in cities and smaller towns have high expectations for local authorities to create the necessary conditions for quality living in these settlements. Here comes the answer to the question regarding central budgetary planning of such a type of expenditure, that such a type of activity in the territory of the whole country, and not only in the territory of the Danube municipalities, should be organised by municipalities with the powers and means available to them. In this sense, in recent years, no such expenditure is planned and is not provided by the central budget of the budget of the individual municipalities as a specific budgetary relationship. As a matter of fact, in the years 2005 to 2014, such central transfers have been made, but I do not consider it specific central state responsibility. The analogy I can give is that with the same arguments a claim can be applied to the central government to organise the collection and disposal of specific municipalities. I believe that Bulgarian municipalities have sufficient capacity to deal with this type of risk to the health of people not only along the Danube River. There are also many other inland water pools in the country that allow and suggest the development of similar populations. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u94	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Dear colleagues, students and teachers from the municipality of Gotse Delchev are on the balcony of the plenary hall today. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] We continue with Mr. Antonov's line. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is raised precisely for this reason that there is no result. Although funds are being spent, they are not being used properly. It is reasonable what you say that this issue does not only concern Danube municipalities, but also the interior of the country. With the same concern, we can say that this is particularly about large cities, because we see that the greatest damage and diseases in people are in large cities, very often happening. Although the municipality of Burgas was one of the few that had sufficient resources and carried out the processing, the first victim for this year was obtained in the municipality of Burgas due to a tick. For the great audience you used the term "dissinsection and dezacarization." For further information, it's about the same thing about mosquitoes and ticks. I asked the question in individual years to the Minister for Environment, Health, Agriculture, because it also concerns animals, and now I put it to you because we see a last resort that can solve the issue. For this year it is too late because we are too far ahead in time, but see that respectively the Chairman of the Management Board of Danube Municipalities is asking the same question. He puts it too dramatically, it becomes dangerous especially in the Danube municipalities. We solved this in one way years ago, and I think it would have been a successful practice for you to continue it. Regarding the proposal of the Danube municipalities, one amount was determined, according to the budget options different. It ranged from 800,000 to a million, a million and two hundred. It was distributed among the Danube municipalities based on the length of the coastline. Thus, control was exercised by the state, all areas were covered, not only municipal areas, but where there is both state and private, everything was covered in sync. In some of the years, this was very much the case with Romanian municipalities, which are respectively brothers with these cities. I think this practice should go on, it's important. I also put the question in writing to the health minister. I just got an answer from him. It appears that we need a regulation that methodically should provide assistance. There's a regulation pointing to the municipalities to do this job. Keep in mind that here are the poorest municipalities of the Northwest, and from our end. These are municipalities with very weak budgets and if the state does not intervene, it will not work. Thank you for your answer. I'm counting on your support on this, it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Would you like more clarification in the back? No. Allow me to thank Vladislav Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Asked by the MPs Anton Konstantinov Kutev and Mikhail Hristov about the policy for integration of people with disabilities. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u97	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I begin my question with the clarification, as I have said many times, I appreciate the efforts you make with regard to this particular subject. This is neither the first question, nor is it our first meeting with you regarding people with disabilities. I see that you have the desire and are trying to respond to these demands. Nevertheless, our question is caused by the confidence that some of the processes are not going in the right direction and some of them are quite significantly slowing down. What do I mean by that? I am referring to a law that we have talked about with you "The Social Services Act," which according to the Plan for Integration of Disabled People was adopted by the first government of Boyko Borisov, i.e. GERB, and should have been written 2016. You and I have repeatedly talked about this and have your commitment given to the Commission that by the end of August 2018 this law will be ready. Another point is that there is work at the moment. In the Ministry there are working groups that have been set up fire after one of the meetings of the BSP with people with disabilities, who understand that they work under the Law for people with disabilities, so called, whatever that means, because at the moment the Law is entitled so. That is, you are currently working on a law that has other content. I read this draft of the Law that was made. In my opinion, it does not include what should enter the Social Services Act, but only part of it. That is to say, part of asking concerns this: what are you working on right now, and is it what we need to work out in order to achieve the goal? The goal, you and I have repeatedly defined it, says: implementation of the Plan for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and signing the Protocol for ratification of the Convention to the UN. However, in order to achieve this, that plan must be implemented and there are already several things of this plan that are not being implemented and continue not to be implemented. Some of them depend on the Ministry and some of them depend on the Council of Ministers. What depends on the Ministry is the individual needs assessment mechanism. As a matter of fact, you made a change in the Mechanism a few months ago. Unfortunately, my and the Organization of Disabilities is convinced that this does not help and that what you have done as a change does not lead to the result they want, because this individual assessment continues to be gone. Despite the changes the Ministry has made, they are not enough, and I am not convinced that they are also in the right direction, but certainly do not achieve results. I know you're working on the records of disabled people right now, but they should have been done a long time ago. This is not about registers where there are CNNs and personal data. We are talking about registers of people with disabilities, from which we can extract the data we need in order to be able to properly conduct policies for people with disabilities. This thing's still gone. Personal assistants are a topic on which at the end of last year something was done in terms of increasing the number, but I think they are not enough at all. The accessible environment of people with disabilities. This is art. 9 of the Convention, on which we have done very little at the moment, and with regard to the................................................................................................................ By the way, there is one art. 169 of the Law on the Construction of the Area, which is not respected at all, which asks all institutions, including municipalities and ministries, to adopt a plan each year to plan their actions to ensure an accessible environment. No institution is doing so at the moment, that is, it is not simply not being respected, it is being dramatically ignored. Our question to you is: what are the actions you take at least on these specific points? I think I know most of them. The points I've drawn aren't all of them. There are at least three, four more points that concern people with disabilities, who are quite deliberately here, for one reason or another, we haven't included the "TelK," which is controversial and where we have a halted reform, will it continue and where it will continue? Personally, I don't know, but let's just say it's a matter for the health minister more than it is for you. Against the background of all that I have tried to mark as points: what are the policies towards people with disabilities; what are the ways in which we can achieve a result, given that only within this government do we talk about it a few times already? We have met in both this House and the Commission at least five, six times, we have discussed what needs to be done. Again, I see your efforts to do so, but, unfortunately, so far, I do not see a result. I hope you can talk me out of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, Mr. Hristov, the policy for integration of people with disabilities is one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The evidence of this is the 81 million increase. 400,000. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. With the planned 68 million. 400,000. lv. under the Programme "Integrating people with disabilities" in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for this year is guaranteed the sustainability of social services. Thus, more favourable conditions have been created to improve the quality of life and the opportunities for social integration of more than 20 thousand people with disabilities. A working group has been set up with a task until 30 May 2018 to develop a standard for financing the social service "Personal assistant" as delegated by the state activity through municipal budgets and a mechanism for determining the natural indicators by municipalities. I would like to clarify here about Mr. Kutev's question that several working groups with different tasks work. The 2018 budget provides an additional financial resource for 2018 amounting to 13 million for monthly supplements for social integration of people with disabilities as a result of the increase of the guaranteed minimum income from 65 to 75 BGN. since the beginning of the year. In November 2017, a methodology for carrying out social evaluation was adopted to determine the individual needs of disabled people. The methodology aims to provide guidance and facilitate the specialists from the Standing Committees in the organisation and the preparation of the social assessment of disabled persons in order to identify the possibilities for the integration of the disabled person, as well as to establish an effective mechanism for determining the necessary social support. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy prepared a concept on the expertise of workability, which was submitted to the National Assembly at the end of October 2017. People with disabilities are a priority risk group and in support programmes under the Social Assistance Act. More relaxed conditions are laid down for access to monthly and targeted heating aid compared to other target groups supported under this law. A key role in promoting social inclusion of children and adults with disabilities has social services in the community. For 2018 the funding funds for social services delegated by the State by 19.5 million have been increased. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty. 900,000. For the period from 2014 to 2018, a total of 124 new social services with a capacity of 1946 seats were revealed. The first plan adopted by the government since the beginning of 2018 to implement the National Strategy for Long-term Care provides funding for a hundred new social services that are primarily aimed at adults with different forms of disability. Here specifically to the question that Mr. Kutev put. Last year a working group was established with broad representation to prepare the Law on Social Services, with a deadline for carrying out the task 15 October 2018. I have confirmed it at the last hearing in the Commission on citizens' rights, so it will be respected. At the end of this month, we expect the broad representative working group, which is a broad representation of NGOs, to present a full concept of this law. According to the National Employment Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2018, the active labour market policy is primarily targeted at several target groups on the labour market, including unemployed persons with permanent disabilities with two groups of unemployed persons with qualifications, but with a need for activation, and unemployed without qualifications. With the implementation of the National Plan, the employment of 1990 people with permanent disabilities will be subsidised, of which 200 new ones will be included, with a financial resource of 9 million to this end. 280,000. lv. The people with disabilities are among the priority target groups of the Operational Program. The total amount of the funds provided under the operations aimed at people with disabilities is 343 million. lv. So far, and the number of disabled persons covered by the measures is close to 75 700. At the last meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Programme on 15 May, three new operations aimed at people with disabilities were approved, with a budget of about 40 million. lv. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 60 of 23 April this year, the government adopted an amendment and supplement to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Disabled Persons, which entered into force on 1 July this year, the mechanism for providing targeted aid and assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices, which will respond to the basic demands of disabled persons related to their faster insurance, has been significantly reduced the number of visits to the By order of 9 March of the Minister of Labour, agreed with the Minister of Health, for the first time since 2008 the list of medical devices has been updated for the provision of which disabled people benefit from targeted aid from the State. It includes three new important medical devices for children, namely: verticals for children with disabilities, children's ring wheelchairs and wheelchairs. Medical conditions, operating periods and the necessary medical documents for the granting of the targeted aid for assistance facilities and medical devices have been revised. By order of the Minister of this year, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established to develop amendments to the Law on the Integration of Disabled Persons in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The working group includes all relevant institutions and NGOs working in the field of policy for the integration of people with disabilities. In response to the demands of people with disabilities from the last protests from the uneducated on 15 May this week, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy proposed the development of a new Law for people with disabilities and a new type of social assessment will be written in the Law, which will conform to the individual needs of people with disabilities. The aim is precisely to achieve an individual approach in assessing, an adequate assessment of the most appropriate type of support, consistent with individual needs and opportunities for the integration of the disabled person, which will enable him to lead an independent life in the community. It is envisaged that the Law on Disabled Persons will propose changes on the provision of financial support in the form of personal assistance for disabled persons and their families based on social assessment. The actions and measures implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the area of the policy for the integration of people with disabilities are a clear expression of the consistent policy pursued in support of people with disabilities, which we will continue to follow in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, you have the floor for supplementary questions, Mr. Hristov. Happy birthday, Mr. Christov! We wish you much inspiration and energy in favor of your constituents! Here you are, now you have the floor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u101	Thank you. On the occasion of your birthday, I will tell you that last night I wished no disabled people, as strange as it sounds. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Secretary, you're right. The list of support funds has been updated and three new support funds have been introduced for children, but, there is one large... the prices have not been updated and in a conversation with you you mentioned that you have not updated the prices because they have continued to exemplify the prices. In the circle of the joke, if we put a space shuttle on that list, they'll start running space shuttles. My first supplementary question is: will and when will the prices of aids in line with the aid market be updated? My second question is related to my personal assistants, as they are working hours. Let's say from nine to five, and this person may need it at seven o'clock in the evening from this personal assistant. My next supplementary question is what is the number of assistants available and are they sufficient for the needs of disabled people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here you are, Minister Petkov. You have the floor to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hristov! Let me join you in congratulations on your birthday, be alive and well! With regard to the questions you have raised, as I mentioned, the amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities adopted by the Council of Ministers in April come into force on 1 July in order to prepare the Agency for Social Assistance and Medical Devices Providers for the new way of granting these targeted aids. Earlier the List was updated, which is by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, agreed with the Minister of Health, and the amendments, i.e. the newly included positions also enter into force on 1 July. The preparation of the so-called Limit Order is under way, that is, an order setting out the size of the targeted aid for individual types of assistance, medical devices. This order is also the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but is agreed with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. Literally within days this order will complete the conciliation procedures, will be signed and it will also enter into force from 1 July, and this new order provides for the targeted aid for the three new positions that are included and changes will be proposed in some of the other positions. This is based on the answer to your first question. In answer to your second question, about the number of personal assistants, their number is about 16 600. They serve more than 20,000 disabled and elderly people in inability to self-service, and, as you have pointed out, the service is part-time. It is determined by the mayors accordingly, as the service is currently provided on the basis of an Agreement between the Agency for Social Assistance and the Municipalities. The study, which was carried out even before the start of the last operation under the Operational Programme, which basically ended, shows that the number of people in need of this service is actually greater than that which can be provided with the operation and now with the budget resource, because with this budget resource, which was foreseen for this year, the scope of the Programme is maintained. As I mentioned in the Draft Law on Persons with Disabilities, this is the working name, the aim is to focus on the rights of people with disabilities, respectively we propose that, together with the participants in the working group, financial support be signed under certain conditions, people with disabilities who have difficulties in their daily service, respectively, receive financial support in the form of so-called personal assistance or foreign assistance. I say this in the different terminology because, as you know, in state social security, the Social Security Code provides for some of the pensions of persons who are 90, over 90%, with the so-called foreign aid to be granted a foreign aid supplement that they currently receive about 80 thousand. pensioners and for which more than 90 million are paid annually out of the budget of the State Social Security. BGN, but it is definitely not enough to serve to finance this support, which has part of the people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. Which of the colleagues will express their attitude to the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u105	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Again, I appreciate your efforts in this direction, and I know that you are making efforts. What's the problem? I'm going back to why we're asking the question. Yes, you have made a change in the methodology for the individual needs of people with disabilities, but I am still telling you that what you have done is not working. Realistically, it still doesn't work. I hope through the law, I have seen that in what you have signed as a law, there is a chapter that deals with this, and I deeply hope in this law that this will be resolved, although I see no significant difference so far there. The question is, how will your system work? From what you've written so far, it won't work. It's not made up, and it has to be invented. We know that a change has started in TELK, which has actually been called the so-called'reform', the prime minister came out and said he's canceling it, what he's replacing it with, I don't know, but there, let's say, it's not just your ministry. I would like to draw particular attention to the personal assistants that you say you have ensured sustainability, and that must be so. You said that there were 16 thousand I didn't know it until now, but I want to tell you that you probably know that in 2008 the number during the three coalition, the wings of hatred that Boyko Borisov once came to power, the same personal assistants were 24,000. Now it's 16,000, which is better than last year, but it was 24,000. And they were thanks to several tools. For one of them in the National Employment Plan, you mentioned, only that the National Employment Plan so far, as far as I know, is about 70 million, and then it was 220 million. Otherwise it is a very powerful tool, it can give you the opportunity to solve this problem, only the difference is tripled by the amount then, and it is a good tool that can result, and it is something that depends on this government and the minister who just left. However, the most important thing we must achieve and have not achieved for a year and a half, four or five protests have passed during this time of disabled people, most importantly, is, of course, the number of personal assistants, which is not sufficient. But the other is: people with disabilities want to manage this aid themselves, whether it is financial or not. We need to create the mechanisms by which people can manage their own help. This has not been achieved. This is something we have yet to do, again I tell you a year and a half after the beginning of the mandate. The entire Disabled Integration Plan is delayed, with which the ratification of the protocol is delayed accordingly, and only the ratification of the Protocol will guarantee the rights of disabled people, because then they can prosecute cases against the state. This is the mechanism by which the state is obliged to comply with certain European and global norms and the failure to sign the protocol and the fact that it is late and that a number of points in the Plan for the Integration of Disabled Persons are not being implemented at the moment, directly hinders people with disabilities. And we all know that they are the most tortured group of the population. These are people I am convinced that every single government and every single parliament is obliged to do so. We have to do something because we're terribly late in this direction. There's a lot of other problems. One of them, of course, which I know is expensive and difficult to decide, but you have to find a solution, is what happens to children with disabilities when they turn 18? We all know that by then, especially those with 90% disability, receive some 800 BGN, depending on the supplements there, which do some work for them as a way of life up to 18 years old, but they are 18 years old and one month old and from now on they become 250 BGN. with the supplement. And they didn't get any less damaged, nor did they get more opportunities, nor do they have any chance of ever getting healthier. But from now on they become disabled persons and start living with 250 leva. What are we doing there? A huge question, including financial! I deeply believe and am convinced that the state can solve these problems, including financially can solve them, however large the resource may be. I am not saying that we can solve them today, tomorrow and with the next budget, but I am absolutely convinced that a well-made plan can do it. And I'm telling you again, by appreciating the efforts you personally put into this, I'm saying that we're terribly late with the plan and this delay, if for us and for you these are some serious programs and working groups that we've already created, for these people it's pain and grief. It's every day alienation, every day lack of work, every day lack of integration. We are responsible for bringing the world of disabled people into some form of tolerance. This is your personal and our responsibility to the MPs. So in this regard, Madam President, I believe that this issue is extremely important, very extensive and that is why we want debates on this subject and we have gathered the necessary signatures. Here you go. [[The national representative shall submit to the chairman of the meeting the request for a debate with the necessary signatures.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-18.u106	Thank you. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! In connection with the previous inquiry by letter No 854-00-35 of 18 May 2018, submitted today at 11:34 p.m., there was a request for a debate on question No 854-05-32 of 4 May 2018 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mikhail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 70 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Allow me to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. The next meeting will be extraordinary and it will be on 22 May 2018 at 1300, according to the vote at the beginning of the plenary day today. That's what we're doing for this week. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
