ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for 31 January 2 February 2018: "1." First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importers "Daniela Daritkova and Danail Kirilov, 19 January 2018. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 31 October 2017. Adopted in first vote on 21 December 2017. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 4 December 2017 4. Second vote on the Financial Instruments Markets Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 24 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 13 December 2017. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 19 January 2018 6. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 November 2017. Adopted at first vote on 11 January 2018. 7. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 January 2018 Point 1 for Thursday, 1 February 2018 8. Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on State Fees. Importers. supposed on 11 January 2018 Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov, 22 November 2017. Adopted on the first vote on 11 January 2018. 9. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 January 2018 Point 1 for Friday, 2 February 2018 10. Parliamentary control comprising: 10.1. Debate on asking No 754-05-57 of 23 November 2017 by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals; 10.2. Answers to questions and Colleagues, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents before the debate, the answer to a question will pass to Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. We have such agreement at the Board of Presidents.. then to make the debate. I put to the vote the so-read Work Programme. Vote 189 MPs: 134 against 5, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. A proposal has been made under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Lecheva, please submit your proposal within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We cannot support the proposed Programme and voted abstentionally because once again we see that the agenda does not include our proposal for amendment and supplement to the Youth Act. So we will take the opportunity that gives us al. 3 to offer once again to the Members of the National Assembly the extremely important bill that concerns young people and their youth organizations. Let me just remind you that in this bill is written their right to participate in the formation, implementation and planning of youth policy, which is essential for their development. Let me just remind all MPs that this is a leading European practice. Now, in the course of the Presidency, let us show our concern, especially our will and that we are Europeans when we talk about young people. The status of the National Youth Representation is also signed in the Bill. Let us hold this debate and support the inclusion on the agenda of our proposal to amend and supplement the Youth Act. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. I put to the vote the proposal to include this bill in our weekly Programme. Vote 189 MPs: 86 against 15, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I'm going to introduce you to the reports on the billings and draft decisions: 1. Do you support the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence? Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 2. Draft decision on the questions No 754-05-57 tabled by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on 23 November 2017, to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. Importers - Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. 3. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students. Importers ssss Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. 4. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2017. Importer "The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data." It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Messages: - The National Assembly has received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 December 2017. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute received information about the economic situation in January 2018, a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at prices of producer on the domestic and international market in industry for December 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharievka. A statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! BSP wants the Minister's resignation because of ideology of education. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] When I heard that, I thought it was a joke or a bad joke. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How is it possible precisely those who Stalinized Bulgarian education in the 40s and 50s of the 20th century? [[Applause from GERB]] Now to proclaim themselves as wrestlers for depoliticization?! Those who, after 1944, conducted mass purges of directors and teachers and appointed illiterate people without high school education only because they were involved in the robbery of dairy before the 9th! Those who threw works out of the Bulgarian textbooks, such as the Epic of the forgotten. [[Strong noise, banging on banks and chanting: "Ouuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u6	...because of the bourgeois views of the author and the writer Dimitar Dimov was forced... [[BSP banks for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u7	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u8	...to rewrite his novel to be politically correct. It's not possible. I told myself. [[Noise and lines, banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u9	Please be quiet, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u10	Then I thought about it, and I realized that not only is it possible, but it's also very logical. [[Applause from GERB.]] They want the resignation of the Minister of Education because he has stood by the fair decision the bloody history of communism in Bulgaria to be studied by our children! [[(Voices: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u11	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u12	Our children will finally learn that those who have recently held their 49th convention with pride are covered with blood not to the elbows, but from head to toe! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u13	Mrs. Zaharieva...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u14	Well, Minister Valchev, this comrades on the left cannot forgive you because, unlike the other countries of Eastern Europe, in which the contemporary socialist parties differed from the communist past of their predecessors and even condemned their actions, in Bulgaria the Bulgarian Socialist Party proudly accepted the entire history of the Bulgarian Communist Party. History of terrorism and attacks, mass murder and concentration camps, destruction of the Bulgarian Revival elite and national betrayals in service of the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. [[(Noise and lines.. Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................................]] It is obvious that BSP has a problem with its attitude towards democracy. Colleagues on the left, you are defending a regime defined as totalitarian, equal to national socialism and fascism, not by us, but by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as by the European Parliament. The communist regime in Bulgaria was declared criminal by law of the Bulgarian National Assembly in 2000. Long before the establishment of the GERB party and the sentences of the so-called People's Court were revoked due to numerous procedural violations and lack of evidence back in 1996 by the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. You are going even further by defending events from which the BCP has denied its April captivity, that is, today's BSP is even more anti-democratic than the late BCP. Shame and shame! GERB Parliamentary Group strongly supports the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev and his team. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]] Education is the main priority of the government of Boyko Borisov and the work of Minister Valchev until now is entirely in support of the policies of GERB. As the largest Bulgarian party in the centre-right political space and a respected member of the European People's Party, we will not allow once again dressed with modern communist robes to conceal their criminal past and present themselves to future generations as democrats and patriots. History must be taught as it is! Because there's no balance between the victims and their executioners. Only the truth will make us free! A few words, honourable Members, and to our natural partners from the right political space, who like to brag about the title of authentic. Dear friends, so far, not only have we not heard your support for our policies in exposing the totalitarian communist regime, but we have also noticed a strange cover-up on your part. I hope it is not due to guerrilla genes in your DNA, but to the understandable human shame that for nearly three decades you have failed to stand the objective study of history. And now one despised by your aristocratic restitutional ego party once again gives you a lesson in democracy. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]] Because it's easy in words to declare yourself authentic right, but you can't explain why, when from 1997 to 2001, you had all the power in the state, and you didn't want to introduce at least minimal lustration, as all democratic countries from the former socialist bloc did?! Why didn't you introduce for so many years an objective study of history? Why didn't you expose the State Security informants completely? Why did you even give them hundreds of profitable assets through privatisation? Isn't that right, Mrs. Ninova? [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]] Now it pains you to see that GERB is once again doing what you know you should have done, but you have neither authenticity nor courage, and you are stooping in the hope that people will not pay particular attention and forget, as you have done silently, when the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs in 2010 handed over the archives of State Security to the State Agency of Archives, making them freely accessible to citizens and to all victims of communist terror and repression. And since we're wide-ranging Democrats, [[(shouts from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria]] , with a sense of national responsibility, once again we give you a hand and call on you to put aside the misunderstandings in the past and stand side by side in defending the cause of democratisation of Bulgaria, because we believe that there is no better time to stand firmly behind the European future of our country than when we are first Presidents of the European Union. And our clear future goes through the categorical clarification of the past and the risks that left populism holds for the free people of the country! Good luck in the effort, Mr. Valchev and remember that you are not alone, but you have the support of the millions of Bulgarians who brought 12 national consecutive election victories to the political party GERB! [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Zablyanov, please come for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It would be most normal for the previous declaration to end with a distinction from the entire leadership of the parliamentary group of GERB and from the leadership of the party [[Applauses from the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria"]] since it is empathetic in all its political activities and in its own existence to the former regime and bears the same responsibility as the main actors and functionaries of the Bulgarian Communist Party of that time. Therefore, you must go through an internal catharsis and achieve that democratic purity for which you have called all the MPs. [[(Applause and cheering by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's go. We accept and understand the value of the separation of authorities as a guarantor of democracy, of fundamental principles such as the rule of law and pluralism of opinions. And that was written in the 1991 Constitution. Since then, these principles have been at the heart of Bulgarian political life. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, not even in one act, even at the times when this Parliament and the highest authority of the sovereign was subjected to..... illegal acts, has not resorted and has not allowed the violation of the Constitution as a way to impose democracy. This seems to me a rather perverse one, with an excuse for the expression, an idea of democracy, a democracy that can exist in spite of the Constitution, despite the legal order! It's not democracy, but as the ancients have said, it's crowd management, but it's something completely different. What gives us reason to argue that? By its decision of yesterday, the Constitutional Court unambiguously stressed that by an act of the National Assembly was violated art. 4 of the Constitution, where the rule of law is expressed in absolutes. The Constitutional Court stressed that a decision of the National Assembly violated one of the fundamental principles for our political existence as MPs, namely the free mandate of the MP. This violation of the Constitution on your part, on the part of the majority, was carried out intentionally with the intention to save the discussion political career of Mr. Delyan Dobrev, who, to this day, who knows why, stands in the National Assembly. [[(Applauses from the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] By submitting our request to the Constitutional Court, we have asked constitutional judges who cannot be suspected of any premeditation to rule on the decision initiated and imposed by the majority. The answer is clear: this is not a position of BSP, these are not some people from the street who have condemned the decision of the majority. This is a decision of one of the highest institutions in the Republic, which gives the whole attitude of your party and of the regime you have imposed for 10 years in Bulgaria with regard to all other legitimate state institutions..........................the attitude of neglect of law, the Constitution, the rule of law, pluralism, all forms of civil and political freedoms, the establishment of a semi-personal regime which cannot be hidden even behind the intense perfume of the European Presidency. Finally, stressing the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party as a supporter, as one of the authors and as one of the founders of the constitutional order in the Republic, I would like to call on the majority on behalf of BSP and all convinced constitutional democrats in Bulgaria not to distinguish the Constitution and democracy! To understand that democracy and the rule of law are mutually, inextricably linked and in no way theirs and any other majority can be put above the Constitution. If the political party GERB and its leadership understand this simple axiom of democratic political life, they will enter within the framework of the good European practices of the centre-right parties and will become an authentic pro-European party, which is such in terms of content, practically, and not only in its name. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Personal explanation? Mr. Dobrev, here's a personal explanation. [[(Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u18	Thank you. It's the way it's supposed to be. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, you allow Members of Parliament to address other Members, to concern them in a procedure on behalf of a parliamentary group, so that these Members may not, in this case, take a personal explanation. I am making you a sharp remark about following the Rules and not allowing this to happen another time. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u19	Wait till I hear Mr. Dobrev's remark! [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u20	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am standing here at the will of the Bulgarian people. I'm standing here because my colleagues supported me because my community supported me. [[(noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria]] Because with documents, I contradicted all the lies of my colleagues at the BSP. All the lies! [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]] Their bubble on the topic "Haskovo", on the topic "Delyan Dobrev" burst. Theirs got sleepy, so they're pissed. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u21	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u22	So, I'm standing here... [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Madam President, I am standing here in this Chamber, at the will of the Bulgarian people! And as I have shown documents and refuted all the facts and claims of the opposition, so I would like to hear from Mrs. Yoncheva, who is standing here in the front row, to answer the questions [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group]] We've been asking her all week: is she a partner at an offshore firm? [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u23	To me, Mr. Dobrev! [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u24	This offshore company gets 315,000. lv. capital? [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u25	Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u26	And if he can't answer those questions, he can resign. [[(Noise, lines, banging on banks and shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u27	To me the remark, Mr. Dobrev. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Omission!" by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u28	And if he can't answer those questions, he can resign! [[Strong noise, banging on banks and chanting: "Omission!" by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u29	Quiet, please! Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Dobrev! [[Change on banks and shouts: "Omission!" by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Dobrev, I'm asking you not to speak to colleagues, but to me. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u30	Dear Madam President, I am making a remark to you in the manner of conduct, because I am paying attention to you. [[noise and lines]] Thanks to my colleagues, I'm paying attention...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u31	Mrs. Damyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u32	Madam President, for the order in this Chamber. At the time when Mrs. Zaharieva was reading GERB's declaration, you made an extraordinary noise in the hall, on her left, banging on the banks. Colleagues, the National Assembly is the institution with the lowest rating in our country. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only we all work together to make this rating be at this level! Madam President, let us not only monitor the order but also the behaviour of the Members of the National Assembly. Because, colleagues, we all have the claim not to be hypocrites, to be real. Well, don't be hypocrites! Accept the truth! We are here in the National Assembly to name things by their real names, to seek solutions. [[(Lowered noise and replica by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria]] Yes, it is a procedure in the manner of conduct and in the behaviour of the MPs. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u33	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u34	Ma'am, please pay attention so I can finish!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u35	Please be quiet. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please be quiet! To me, Madam Damyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u36	Members of the National Assembly must respect... Yes, you, Madam President, should pay attention to the Members of the National Assembly that the laws in this country must be respected! And very clearly the law says that communism was declared criminal in 2000. Students need to know this and need to know why this regime is declared criminal!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u38	Madam President, I beg you very much, Members of the National Assembly, if they are not hypocrites, simply not to leave the Chamber, but to hear the declaration of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u39	Mrs. Damyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u40	...the parliamentary group of GERB as well as our parliamentary group heard their declaration! [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u41	Thank you for your comments. Colleagues, yes, there was indeed a lot of noise in the room. I hope we can all read the Rules. There in art. 54, para. 6 writes that: The President once gave the floor to the chairmen of parliamentary groups, their alternates or their authorised representative during the meeting on matters outside the agenda. Whenever there is a declaration, however, emotion prevails. I therefore ask you to be a little more calm, to listen to the opposite opinion or opinion of our colleagues. I'll take your remarks into account. Thank you. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROPOSALS The first report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 19 January 2018. At its meeting held on 24 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 19 January 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who noted that it offers the purchase of medicinal products from hospitals included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Humanitarian Medicine to be excluded from the scope of the Law on Public Procurement. The Bill aims to ensure timely treatment of patients whose diseases are without an available therapeutic alternative in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the discussion took part the MPs Pencho Milkov and Emil Dimitrov, who expressed their support for the submitted bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Law on Public Procurement, No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 19 January 2018, submitted by Daniela Anastasova-Prodanova and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. With the report of the Committee on Health we will be briefed by the President of the Commission Mrs. Daritkova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Kirilov on 19 January 2018. At its regular meeting held on 25 January 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-2. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The draft and the reasons for the proposal were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative change aims to exclude from the scope of the Public Procurement Act, the purchase of medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine The legislative initiative responds to the need to settle problems related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act with regard to medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Due to the lack of appropriate norm in the Law, the provision of timely treatment for patients with no available therapeutic alternative in Bulgaria is seriously hampered and delayed over time. In the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine includes medicinal products that are authorised for use in a Member State of the European Union, are authorised for use under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, but are not distributed on the Bulgarian market and which are necessary for a particular patient, the treatment of which is without an alternative in Bulgaria. These medicinal products are primarily used for the treatment of rare diseases where the initiation of adequate therapy cannot be delayed over time, which in turn requires the provision of the necessary medicines within a very short period of time. Dr. Daritkova clarified that the process of forecasting and planning a public procurement for the purchase of these medicinal products is further difficult because of the specific and frequency of distribution of these diseases, as well as because of the need for the list of medicinal products under art. 266, para. To be updated when changing the registration status of medicinal products and depending on the needs of medical establishments and their patients. In conclusion, Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the FCM, are not subject to price regulation by the State and in most cases have one or very small number of suppliers, which in itself excludes the existence of competition between them. This fact to a large extent makes it meaningless for the conduct of a public procurement, the purpose of which is to ensure the provision of goods, services or works under maximum favourable conditions to market competition. It clarified that the conduct of a contract for the purchase of medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the GLPH, despite the reduced time limits for urgent award provided for in the Public Procurement Act, has an extremely adverse effect on the health of patients in need of immediate treatment. The Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov expressed support for the draft under consideration offering the purchase of medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, to be excluded from the scope of the Law on Public Procurement. He thanked the importers for the legislative initiative and clarified that the adoption of the proposed supplement in art. 13, para. 1 of the GOP will ensure the provision of timely drug therapy to patients whose treatment is without an alternative available in Bulgaria. Prof. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, informed the MPs that he represented the word organization fully supports the proposed legislative change. He pointed out that currently on the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products included 37 international non-proprietary names with about 70 trademarks, which in the case of over 7000 authorised medicinal products in Bulgaria is extremely limited as a number. Professor Getov pointed out that most of the cases for the purchase of medicinal products are not spent public funds, but are sought and used alternative sources of funding. The written opinion of the Center for the Treatment of Children and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria states that the adoption of the Bill is justified, timely and necessary. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed unanimous support for the proposed bill and raised specific questions about the annual number of patients whose treatment is without alternative in the country, the envisaged control mechanisms for inclusion of medicinal products in the list, the opportunities for public disclosure of the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, as well as on the impact on the state budget and the budget of hospitals for hospital care as a result of the adoption of the legislative initiative. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 22 votes for the public procurement law, No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Kirilov on 19 January 2018.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are you going to take an opinion on behalf of the importer? There's Dr. Daritkova again. Here you are, as an importer, to present the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! In the Report, I detailed our motives and intentions through this bill, apart from the scope of the Public Procurement Act, the purchase of medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2. to allow for timely therapy related mainly to the treatment of patients with rare diseases without a therapeutic alternative in Bulgaria. What is the specific case that led us to undertake this change? It is about the need to ensure the purchase of the necessary medicines for children with rare diseases. These funds are provided by the Fund for the Treatment of Children, but the purchase under the current regulations is made by the medical institutions after the settlement of a public procurement. Usually, the time limits in which the public procurement takes place lead to the delay in the treatment of children, and in the case of so-called drugs, medicines orphans, which are of serious value. In any case, public resources are being used to purchase these medicines. In this case, from the point of view of caring for the patient, timely delivery of this medicine and providing lifesaving treatment is very important. In this sense, it is necessary to support our legislative proposal, because the settlement and the need for a rapid response to such situations requires the exclusion from the scope of the medicines included in this list. Due to the many questions of colleagues about the mechanism for inclusion and exclusion in the list of medicinal products, it has been clearly emphasised that the exclusion concerns only medicines which are not available on our drug network, they are authorised for use in another Member State of the European Union. There are two options for inclusion in the list of different medicines. One is medicines that are not imported by distributors or holders of the permissions for use in the country. The other hypothesis is when they are withdrawn from the Bulgarian market. The second hypothesis usually includes medicinal products which, due to the low price, are not good for distribution of pharmaceutical companies and therefore withdraw them from the Bulgarian market, as we are a country of reference which, with the lowest price, affects the other prices in the European market. In this situation, in very rare cases public procurement is still required, because the prices of medicines that are necessary for the patient are relatively low. In the other hypothesis, the funds are actually paid through the Public Fund, namely the Fund for the Treatment of Children. Each application for such medicine concerns a specific patient, comes from the director of the institution concerned, necessarily passes through the sanction and consent of the national consultant on the disease profile and is in line with the opinion of the Drug Executive Agency. There is a regulation which clearly lists the mechanisms by which medicines are included or excluded on the list, in which I have already stressed that there are 37 positions. According to the latest regulations of the Minister of Health, two of the positions are even excluded. Each of these orders explicitly states that they are published on the website of the Ministry of Health. In other words, any doubts and opportunities for abuse are excluded from the mechanisms laid down in both the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and the Ordinance, which determines the possibilities for inclusion, exclusion and maintenance of the list under art. 266a. After all, I really think it is extremely important to support this exception from the Public Procurement Act because it is in the interest of Bulgarian patients who are without a therapeutic alternative in Bulgaria. It is mostly in the interest of children who need timely treatment of rare diseases for which it is difficult to foresee the need to draw up certain lists or request public procurement and this will contribute to a faster response in situations that are critical to patients' health.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to discuss the proposed bill. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed amendment with the Bill concerns an undisputed important topic which concerns a small number of Bulgarian citizens, but with great importance for them. However, we have some concerns that I want to share, and we reserve the right to make the relevant proposals between first and second readings. The first is that the proposed bill proposes that we introduce another order to spend public resources, that is, not to have public procurement. The amounts that are spent are not so small, in some cases they are several hundred thousand levs. We understand the importance of the period of implementation of treatment, of therapy for these patients, but we would like to introduce financial thresholds in which the procedure can take place without a contract, and when the amounts are large, there will indeed be a public procurement. Because I do not want the topic of health corruption to become a leading theme from this tribune and in our country. Secondly, changes must undoubtedly be made to alleviate these sick ones. They can be many others, and we of the Commission have supported this bill. After the analysis, we will probably abstain today from the vote and we will see what will ultimately enter for a second vote and we will take our final decision with a clear awareness of the importance of this act for the sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u49	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines? For a line, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Yordanov, I take a reply because of the following: I would like to refer mainly to the debate that you have held in committees and in view of your statement of proposals between first and second readings, and my request is to withdraw this statement, I will explain why. We believe that the debate you held was sufficiently meaningful, including explanatory to the mechanism. I was not aware of the particulars either, but from the presentation of Dr Daritkova I was very clear about the two hypotheses in which such a need and necessity arise. I would also like to emphasise that, in the vast majority of cases, there is a reference to medicines whose value is unlikely to enter the values where the thresholds for public procurement are, i.e. here and the appropriateness of such an additional procedure is controversial, is dismissed. With regard to the mechanism and the list, I believe that there are sufficient guarantees that this mechanism will be guaranteed at administrative and central level so that the list does not have an alternative for one reason or another. Therefore, my request is as follows, because I explicitly considered as an importer and as chairman of the committee responsible to make a proposal under art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, my request is that you withdraw this application and take a decision now and here, and I think that you are ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u52	Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, if you really have any financial parameters that you want to invest, please state them, but I would like to warn you what the danger is from what you said. You cannot predict the value of the drug needed for a newly occurring rare disease now discovered because, you know, these cases cannot be planned in any way. The value of these medicines varies from time to time, and in most cases, the thresholds that are defined by the Public Procurement Act in general, but by setting some thresholds on your part, you will discriminate against patients. In what way would you decide that some patients whose value is, for example, over 100,000. BGN, you have to make a public procurement? You will delay treatment under this mechanism because that is what public funds will be spent anyway! Here the time factor is crucial for the usefulness of the actions we perform in relation to the therapy of the individual patient. Slowing down for some patients will mean damage and risk to life, speeding up for others will mean an opportunity for therapy at the moment that gives them a greater chance of survival. Is it right for the MPs to make such discrimination? I think we've been thorough enough when we're trying to convince you that your suspicions are not justified. In any case, these funds, especially when they are paid through the Fund for the Treatment of Children, go through all the mechanisms of approval from the Fund, on the one hand, from the Fund, on the other, from the specific medical establishment, the national consultant for the profile, the Minister of Health, which includes the drug. At the bottom of all this is the specific patient, the particular child who needs life support, lifesaving, and timely application really ensures success of treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u53	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. You're going to take the opportunity to say a line? Here you are, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for the back, forgive me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I think that leaves us with a little bit of uncertainty about what we're doing with this bill. What's the problem now? Not so much financial thresholds. The problem now is that hospitals are forced to perform a division of orders. What's this about? At the beginning of the year each hospital makes a public procurement for the necessary medicines that it will use during the year. Second order she no longer has the right to do because it is interpreted as a violation. When the Financial Research Agency comes in, she says: "You have committed an infringement, you divide the order for benefit. Now, with your bill, that is exactly what we are trying to avoid, okay. But the fact is that you correctly said that many drugs disappear from the market. Our concern is that we will get a stream of medicines that jump from the normal list to this list, and here we have no effective control that regulates this process, because we may absolutely deliberately certain medications, especially of great value, disappear from our market and be forced to bring them in without already purchasing without a public order in this order that you are offering. That's the point of what we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed had, honourable Members, a rather lengthy discussion on the problem presented by the health committee importer. Here I would like to call on the honourable Mr. Kirilov, as I understood from his statement that he would probably suggest that the second reading should pass immediately after the first one, at least so his speech was directed carefully to reconsider his proposal and to have another consideration of this proposal for a change in the Law, as the idea of importers is undoubtedly positive. However, as someone who has worked with this list for many years, I would like to share with you what are the main dangers that exist in this decision and what were the arguments that we have put forward to the Health Commission and our proposals in relation to these arguments. First of all, let us be aware of all those who are interested in the change in the Law introduced by the importers are confirmed once a year, indeed with the participation of national consultants in the various areas. It is paraphrased by the principle of the Ministry of Health and then already operates throughout the calendar year until its renovation in the next. However, this means that, apart from the funding hypothesis of the Fund, we have very well shared with colleagues in the Health Commission, all the other funds that are being spent on the purchase of these medicines go to the expense of the medical institutions that will buy them. And here let the honourable Members understand that this is not just about children at all. Many hospitals, which are profiled to treat relatively rare diseases, will not list them in front of you, deal with this problem and there comes a next problem, which I ask you very carefully to hear all to reconsider the possibility of going through the first and second votes so quickly. Medications for a number of reasons and on a number of relationships from the world pharmaceutical industry are at some point monopolised by a pharmaceutical company. These aren't new molecules. The idea that these drugs are orphans is not true. There are many medicines that have long come out of the principle of their condition to be new, but for some reason or other, they are monopolised by a pharmaceutical company that offers them. It downloads them from registration in the Republic of Bulgaria because the market is very small and then there is an opportunity, even if it is one distributor, even if there are two distributors, in agreement between them and their relationship with a hospital, they impose a price and this is practice. I can quote medicines for which I have been forced to pay 20, 30, 40 times the price. This is the policy of pharmaceutical companies and distributors who benefit from it. In this way, for example, I can give something that each of you has used in your practice a ampoule of sodium bicarbonate, which is a very simple drug, raised its price about 40 times in the last... [[Replication by rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] Wait, wait, wait! The same thing happens with medicines that are on this list under art. 266a, i.e. creates an opportunity for distributors themselves to charge prices because the honourable Dr. Daritkova said that these prices are not subject to price regulation, these medicines are not distributed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, that is, they impose their prices on the one who is forced to buy them in the interest of the patient. In this sense, our specific proposal was.. and I ask the MPs and importers to listen to it, the prerogatives for the purchase of these medicines under art. 266a to be provided specifically with this proposal in the hands of the Ministry of Health, as it is the institution that can, through specific actions in cooperation with the Legal References Department and the amendment of other laws, which will not take as long if importers wish, and with the assistance of the Health Commission, create conditions for the Ministry of Health to purchase these medicines. In this way, first of all, not to burden hospitals that are outside the custody of the Fund for the Treatment of Patients by the age of 18 and, second of all, to have the opportunity to avoid the pressure of the relevant distributor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u57	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Replies to Professor Mihailov's statement? You have the floor for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think my esteemed Professor Mihailov missed something important that we discussed because the discussion continues, of course, until first reading, and is now in a room. There is something that has not been discussed with the Commission. Since for the previous year the cases are 37, do we not strain ourselves for too many things, including new diseases, to treat in Bulgaria? If we are a private structure and we have to keep our money very well, what prevents the Republic of Bulgaria in the face of the Ministry of Health from concluding a contract with such clinics that have experience in the treatment of such complex and new rare diseases, has experience with these new molecules, and instead of us, I say a few cases, to strain ourselves to develop them in Bulgaria, we directly send these patients abroad to heal? I'm not talking about the amount of money we're indebted to outside medical institutions now, but especially for these diseases, and they may even be on a list, we can do that. It'll cost us a lot more economical, Mr. Kirilov. And when we talk about appropriateness, this is done everywhere in the economy and in different structures. It's just that we didn't seem to discuss it. That is why we believe that we could still stop at it and discuss it at second reading. Therefore, we will abstain and intend to submit some new additions to this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u59	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? Duplica, Professor Mihaylov. You have the floor, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to make it clear that this is not about 37 cases in any case, it is about 37 medicines. [[Reply.]] Indeed, with all due respect and the desire of the colleague to support the discussion, in many of these cases it makes no sense to discuss their transportation and conclusion of treatment contracts abroad. Rather, my attention, which I would like to draw to the honourable Members, is that, by providing the explicit opportunity in the proposal, these relationships with distributors or the company that is authorised to produce the drug in question are to be carried out by the Ministry of Health, firstly, to unload the medical establishments from expenditure which they must carry out if they are not covered by the Fund for Treatment, and these are not few cases, those from the Fund for Treatment up to 18 years of age and, secondly, not to create an opportunity for inappropriate practices which I have personally seen, unfortunately, through its administrative practice as head of a medical establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Next statement? Dr. Jaffer, you declare and confirm your wish to speak. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking, but we are very surprised, firstly, by the proposal, secondly, by the development of the debate. Dear importers from GERB, weren't you the ones who voted in this Chamber seven times for a moratorium on innovative medicines just a few weeks ago, arguing that public funds in healthcare should be spent in accordance with the rules and public interest? You are now proposing a short track on which some of the medicines are to be purchased by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u63	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u64	Dear colleagues from the BSP, you who said that patients' access to medicines should be facilitated, today we see you hesitated, contrary to what you voted on in the Health Commission. Maybe we need to clarify to make it clear to everyone. It's about drugs that split into two groups. Some of them cost pennies, coins, but are withdrawn from the Bulgarian market because traders have no interest in offering them here. Example 5 Flurooracil costs 5 BGN. It treats cancer, but it is not available on the market because there is no interest in it. Yes, the state must make it possible to provide this medicine to patients. However, there are a large group of medicines that cost, for example, 80, 90, 100,000 a month. We have always defended the position that even if there is a child with such a rare disease in Bulgaria, it has the right to be treated with this medicine if medicine, if innovation, if technology has found this medicine for this disease. That is why we believe that we must support the proposal and we will do so with the agreement, Mr. Kirilov, that we must find the really legally sustainable form between first and second reading so that you are not blamed both you and we who will support you for doing something that is contrary to public interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u65	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? Professor Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry that I have so many times focused on the attention of the honourable Members, but let me clarify one more time to both Dr. Naydenova and Dr. Jaffer. There are no innovative drugs on this list that you mentioned, and don't blame them for insisting on the moratorium, on others for being against it. These are medical remedies or molecules or medicines not claimed by the manufacturer on the Bulgarian market. They are not new innovative means to which they simply do not have access. If we go along this line and these innovative funds are included in the list under art. 266a, I do not want to share with the honourable MPs what will happen next, what avalanche of requests will rain because the Bulgarian citizen has a constitutional right, so we should not go into such nuances. We have supported the proposal in the Commission, but with the agreement that we are now raising to you very precisely to specify the possibility of who and how to buy these medicines, because neither the thesis that this is about a particular child is true nor the thesis that it is about pennies in individual cases. The hundreds have turned into hundreds of levs, unfortunately, on this mechanism. That's what I mean as a specialist. So I'm asking that this debate be cooler, more relaxed. Many of us went into detail on all the actions of the individual political forces. It is a very professional problem that the importer has understood somewhat, but let us help him clarify it and be able to reach the end of a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Second line to Dr. Jaffer's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for your speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u68	My fellow Members, due to the suggestion of suspicion, I will try to explain once again what is happening to our proposal and what is its purpose. Either way, when a specific need arises under the article in question. 266a, which I will read to you in detail in a moment, is provided treatment for the individual patient. It is usually about newly discovered rare diseases for which no product has been imported in Bulgaria. These products are authorised for use and the specific patient with his or her status and with the application of the medical establishment concerned shall submit an application. In order to speed up the treatment procedure, we propose not to conduct a public procurement when the parameters of the funds fall within the scope of the Public Procurement Act, and to deliver the medicine immediately. The price cannot normally be debatable because it is determined by the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Distributors are one, two on these medications, tops. In this sense, the effect of a lower price than the Public Procurement Act cannot be sought from the point of view of the preservation of public resources. In any case, under the current provision, these funds will be spent because a procedure will take place and the Fund for the Treatment of Children in this case will provide the treatment of the patient with public funds. We want to avoid the factor time that can be crucial to the deterioration of the patient's condition. There are many such cases in the work of the Children's Treatment Fund. That's the point of our proposal. In no way can I agree with the thesis that all of a sudden there will be raining proposals, because now I will read you a specific article. 266a. We are talking about a list of a specific patient with a specific need who is verified by the medical institution, his director, the national consultant, the Drug Executive Agency, that is to say the abuse is excluded. Then, when public funds are not used, we must tell the truth that in most cases patients themselves take the means when they are not significant, and this is not at the expense of medical institutions. In this case, and the public procurement, if no public resource is spent, is unthinkable. I am glad that you want to protect us from difficulties, but I also want you to understand that our only goal is to speed up and give a chance and opportunity to provide rapid therapy for patients who have such a need. Of course, the motivation for preserving public resources is important. When you weren't really leading in that other debate, when some 25 million seemed like a small resource, so let's put our positions together. In the interest of the patient, we now want the procedure to be preserved, that is the point of our proposal. I'll introduce you to the article in question. 266a: Art. 266a. (1) Where the treatment of the disease concerned is without an alternative in the country, a medicinal product authorised in a Member State of the European Union may be applied to a particular patient but not distributed on the Bulgarian market. (2) The Minister of Health shall establish a list of medicinal products under para. (2) every year on a proposal from hospital care establishments and after an opinion of the relevant national consultant on the profile of the disease, the Minister of Health shall establish a list of medicinal products under para. 1 containing the following information: 1. Anatomy-therapeutic-chemical classification code; 2. an international non-proprietary name to which the product belongs; 3. disease by international code of diseases; 4. pharmaceutical form and amount of active substance; 5. additional information. (3) The list under para. 2 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health on the Internet. (4) The conditions for inclusion, modification or exclusion of medicinal products in the list under para. 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 9, para. 1. (5) The medicinal product under para. 1 shall be delivered on a special order to the hospital care facility under conditions and in order laid down by the ordinance under art. 9, para. 1. (6) The head of the medical establishment under para. 5 is responsible for the application of the treatment under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. This is the whole article. 266a, in which we make exceptions to the Public Procurement Act. Please really understand the seriousness of this problem. I understand that you have any other intentions for the subject to make the payments, but in any case, I assure you that the only interest we have is the interest of patients who need timely therapy. I hope that this interest will lead to you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u69	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines to the statement? Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right, Dr. Daritkova. The main point in our considerations is which object will buy these drugs. The way you read art. 266a, you read very correctly that once a year this list is made and confirmed, that is, in this calendar year no one can guess how many patients will occur, what these patients will be, what the decision of the hospital will be. So it's not right that there are separate patients behind each of these drugs, and this example Dr. Jeffer gave it to you a few minutes ago. Our proposal again, with the support of your thesis, is: to actually refine the entity that will have the right to purchase. In our opinion, this subject should be the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u71	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u72	Dear Professor Mikhailov, it is good to meet the Regulation. I assume, as a former national consultant, that you know her, because she allows a specific patient, through the medical establishment during the year, to provide medicine within the scope of art. 266a. I have the orders made by the Minister of Health on the occasion of a specific request for a particular patient. Within 2017, the list has been changed five times, where we have not only the inclusion of new medicines but also the exclusion of medicines from this list. So the procedure runs in two directions. When a specific case arises, you know much better than I do the rare diseases in pediatric practice, and I know cases from the practice of the Fund for the Treatment of Children when the patient is diagnosed with a rare disease and needs the delivery of the necessary medication within a month to preserve his life. That's the point of our proposal. Everything is going through a sufficiently clear and transparent procedure. All these documents are published on the website of the Ministry of Health. Maybe every MP and every citizen can see them. The procedure is sufficiently clear and concerns a specific patient in each case. Therefore, I believe that you will be quickly and well organized with your proposals between first and second readings, but the interest that should guide us is the interest in responding to the need to save the lives and health of Bulgarian patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u73	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Please come in for a statement, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, when examining the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act during the discussion in the Committee on Health, have supported, as we will now support the proposal that has been made, in view of the arguments which have been mentioned, that medicines must be delivered in due time and in short time for the treatment of patients who need these medicines, which have already been described very thoroughly, I would not like to repeat them. We share these arguments, and I, as a doctor, would like to say that many times I have been approached with similar medicines. We have seen ourselves in a miracle in what way to deliver these medicines, because it is about health, about the lives of our fellow citizens, of the sick, and in these cases we really need to react as quickly as possible. I support the proposal that I had made during the discussion of the Bill in the Commission, namely to publish all of this. It was very correctly presented by Dr. Daritkova that all this will be uploaded to the website just in case. At the moment, I would like to draw attention to something else. Let's do an annual relapse, that is, see for each expired year exactly what resource, how many cases have been treated and medicines have been delivered in this order, within the scope of the Public Procurement Act. We will also support the fact that most of the patients are within the scope of the Fund for the Treatment of Children. And in this respect we have our considerations, but it is good that the public and all of us should be informed in what volume, in what scope are the funds that will be spent in the most effective way so that there is not only storage, but also a reasonable spending of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other MPs for a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the first vote on the proposed Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-2, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and Danail Kirilov on 19 January 2018. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 21. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once it became clear that we could not make a procedural proposal under art. 80, para. 2, I am making another proposal: the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to be 5 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal at such delicate moments, which showed in the discussions on this important for the House and for the country Draft amendment, is that the deadline should not be five days, but maximum. Let's run away from emotions. So many years have gone by not solving this issue that this solution must be cleared from all sides. So let's be as precise as possible, let's not throw ourselves away, because five days are literally nothing as an opportunity to clear all the proposals, to look for interaction between different laws. Let's be as precise as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u79	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. I will put the two proposals to the vote in the order of entry. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov to reduce the period between first and second readings to five days. They voted 132 MPs: 86, against 32, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. This makes the proposal pointless, which is in the opposite sense for the extension of the deadline. The period between first and second readings is set at five days with the just adopted decision. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PREMIUM AND THE CONVERSION OF THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF UNION AND ARMED FORCE. Please, Mr. Popov, introduce us to the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u80	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Staff Regulations to be admitted to the meeting Mr. Anatoly Velichkov "Deputy Minister of Defence," and Mrs. Milena Marinova "Department of Legal and Normal Activity" of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u81	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Velichkov and Mrs. Marinova. Please vote. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u82	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u83	We vote on the name of the Law. Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 72, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. § 2 is proposed by the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 26 is amended as Art. 26. The personnel of the Allied and/or Foreign Armed Forces and the civilian component when entering and leaving the Republic of Bulgaria shall be exempt from border checks in the information funds of the Ministry of Interior, from fees, visa procedures and from the procedures for registration and control of foreigners.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Statements? We are discussing § 1 and § 2 with the Commission's proposals. Come in for a statement, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u86	(BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to express the following opinion with regard to § 2, Article 2. 26, concerning the personnel of the Allied or Foreign Armed Forces and the civilian contingent is enrolled here, but after that it is proposed to be a supplied by border checks in the information funds of the Ministry of Interior, fees, visa procedures and procedures for registration and control of foreigners. We find this at the very least unacceptable, including with the proposal of the new option, because the civilian component, honourable Members, cannot be exempt from checks in the information funds of the Ministry of Interior, especially in the cases of In practice, with this proposal, by adopting it, we are legitimizing something that is contrary to the Coliseum with the updated National Security Strategy in its part "Protection of national interest', namely the protection of state borders. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also such cases at the Commission meeting I shared them, including those who committed serious criminal offences. There was a murder case like that. Personally, I cannot agree with such a set-up, although I am using this case, Mr President, to tell the President of the Commission that we, after careful discussion, have decided to support a small part of the texts, except for a few in which we will take the relevant attitude. We do not see grounds for civilians, even more then you will see what the civilian component is like.. It is such a broad concept, the dependent persons.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Besides, I have something else to say. What is a civilian component accompanying the troops, ladies and gentlemen? Here, in this Chamber there are several people who have been on a mission, including the President of the Commission, and the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Emil Hristov. Let them tell you who the civilian components of our foreign military missions are. Is there such a part as to accompany the army, not to say that it is dragging after the army, in some cases, including women for entertainment? In our contingents, there is no need for the concept of....... because our contingents, going on a mission, are all military forces. Even if we go to a version of nurses, and they're militaryized for the term of residence in a foreign country. There's something else I want to tell you. From the modest experience that I have, our contingents, even servicemen, have been subject to border checks in foreign countries, including in the Republic of Turkey, which is NATO, when we used a Turkish airport to move to Afghanistan, with So this is where we rule out a level playing field. So in this text, I express that opinion. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u87	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I think this proposal needs to be supported because it is a matter of border checks concerning the Ministry of Interior's information funds. I can assure you that this process lasts extremely long, it is extremely strict and begins far before the civilian component and military colleagues from other countries enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. You know, preliminaries are being sent, these reports are agreed with the Ministry of Interior, there are lists, people who have a sending country that is responsible for this. Then, during the stay, the control is extremely strict by the Military Police, the structures of the SANS, the joint command of the forces Not only crimes committed but incidents are reported. We've had more than a few cases, a sprained leg, a broken finger, and so on. Control is extremely strict and it is known to every employee what it is about. Yes, there has been a case, but it is known throughout NATO. Just to say that we have civilian employees outside and they work well at both NATO headquarters and in our delegations, and these employees, for example in Brussels, are quietly going to France, shopping and returning and not entering any information files. I can assure the Members of the National Assembly that according to art. 19, 20, 21, 27 of this Law, all who commit a crime in the Republic of Bulgaria are also subject to investigation in the case of proof of lawsuits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u89	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other comments on the texts discussed? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on § 1 and § 2 in the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 114 MPs: for 76, against 8, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u90	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 1 the following amendments 1. In the text before t. 1 the words "dependent persons' shall be replaced by the "civil component'; 2. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." an identity card or passport containing names, birth date, photo, number, date of validity and the authority issuing the document, and if there is a title and type of armed force;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u91	Are there any statements under § 3? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make the statement, I would like to make a statement. I got the feeling that a lot of people here don't know what they're voting for. We spoke earlier, dear General Popov, about the civilian component, nothing else. Now about § 3. In § 3 in the previous version of the law there is para. One with two points. The second is an order for individual or group movement drawn up in the language of the Sending State and in English. I cannot explain the reasons of the importer to propose in the new version this item. Two down. The person entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria presents an identity card or passport, the respective attributes of the names, birth date, title, number, type of armed force, but there is no order for individual or group movement drawn up in the language of the Sending State. That is, it can enter the territory of Bulgaria only with the document without submitting such an order, as it is not required, including from which it cannot become clear whether it is part of a contingent or component or not. He can get on the line, if you want, on a smuggling channel. I can't understand the reasons to drop this point! Why? Why do you make sure this thing doesn't have a moving order? This is the command order, which even an MP sometimes requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u93	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Velkov! I am making the line with one quick clarification that § 3 is not at all relevant. 2.. neither its dropping out nor any editing thereof. Paragraph 3 concerns, only and only t. 1 of para. 1. Point 2 remains as it is. Please read the report a little more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Velkov, for the coat. Is there going to be one? No, you're quitting. Other speeches on the discussion § 3. I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of § 3 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: for 76, against 2, abstention 31. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u97	Are there any statements on the proposed texts of § 4 and § 5? I can't see. We vote § 4 and § 5. They voted 105 MPs: 79, none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u98	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: § 6. Chapter 5 is created with art. 39 - 43: "Chapter 5" - Entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of servicemen and members of the civilian component of allied and/or foreign armed forces, which are part of the structure of the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty (NATO) located in the Republic of Bulgaria and their accompanying dependent persons Art. 39. (1) The military and members of the civilian component of allied or foreign armed forces, which are part of a NATO structure located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as their accompanying dependents, shall, upon entering and leaving the Republic of Bulgaria, be exempt from border checks in the information funds of the Ministry of Interior, from fees, visa procedures and from procedures for registration and control of foreigners. (2) When crossing the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria, the persons under para. 1 submit an identity card or passport containing names, birth date, photo, number, date of validity and the authority issuing the document, and if it has a title and type of armed force. (3) The servicemen of para. 1 present the document under para. 2 and an order for individual or group movement drawn up in the language of the Sending State and in English. (4) The passports of the members of the civilian component and of the dependent persons shall indicate their status as such. In the absence of such a note on the first entry into the Republic of Bulgaria, they shall submit another document issued by the relevant authorities of the Sending State or NATO in English, certifying their status. Art. 40. Residency of the persons under art. 39, para. 1 is certified under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on the Entry, Residence and Leaving of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families. Art. 41. The persons referred to in art. 39, para. 1 for the period of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria they certify their identity with their national travel document and their residence with a map of an employee in a NATO structure or a dependent person issued under the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act. Art. 42. The driving licences of a motor vehicle owned by the persons under art. 39, para. 1 issued by the Sending State shall be recognised in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 43. (1) The plates with registration number of the service motor vehicles of the structure of NATO and/or of the Sending State and of the personal motor vehicles of the persons under art. 39, para. 1 is recognized by the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The official motor vehicles of the structure of NATO and/or of the Sending State and the personal motor vehicles of the persons under art. 39, para. 1 are registered in the Republic of Bulgaria at the request of the relevant structure and/or persons. The procedure for registration shall be determined by the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence, subject to the applicable international treaty regulating the establishment of the structure of NATO in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u99	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the wording of § 6. They voted 113 MPs: 78, against 1, abstention 34. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u100	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 Anywhere after the words the Armed Forces....are added to the civilian component. 2. A t is created. 9. Nine. "Civil component" is the civilian personnel accompanying the Allied or Foreign Armed Forces working in these forces and does not include persons without citizenship, persons who are not nationals of the Sending State, as well as persons who are nationals of the Republic of Bulgaria or who are authorised to reside permanently in the Republic of Bulgaria, unless otherwise provided for in an international treaty in force for the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u101	Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the wording of Paragraph 7 in the version of the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 95, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u102	"Transitional and final provisions." There is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division, namely:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u103	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the name of the division Vote 112 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u104	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 14a: Art. 14a. (1) The requirements of this Law shall not apply to the servicemen and members of the civilian component of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) located in the Republic of Bulgaria and to their dependents. (2) On the persons referred to in para. 1 shall be issued a card under art. 14, para. 6 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents with period of validity of the office in the structure of NATO located in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The order for issuing the card under para. 2 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 2. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 7. "7." "Reliable person' means a spouse of a serviceman or a member of the civilian component of a NATO structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as persons to whom the serviceman or the member of the civilian component exercises parental, guardianial or custody rights or is obliged to provide support under the legislation of the Sending State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u105	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any statements on the proposed text for § 8? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of § 8 in the version of the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u106	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25e: Art. 25e. (1) The requirements of this Law shall not apply to the servicemen and members of the civilian component of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) located in the Republic of Bulgaria and to their dependents. (2) The period of residence under para. 1 may be longer than one year. (3) The persons under para. 1 shall be issued a card under art. 14, para. 6 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents with period of validity of the office in the structure of NATO located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 21: ..21. "Reliable person' means a spouse of a serviceman or a member of the civilian component of a NATO structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as persons to whom the serviceman or the member of the civilian component exercises parental, guardianial or custody rights or is obliged to provide support under the legislation of the Sending State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u107	Thank you. Are there any statements on the proposed text for § 9? I don't see any requests for speeches. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 9 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u108	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: para 14 is created. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The personal number for a foreigner (LCH) identifies uniquely long, long-term and long-term residents in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the servicemen and members of the civilian component of the structure of NATO located in the Republic of Bulgaria and their dependents. The way of its formation is determined by the Council of Ministers. (b) In para. 6 words................................................................................. 18, para. 6, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 4. The application for the issuance of a card under Article 4 (4) shall be submitted to the competent authority of the Member State in which the application is made. 59, para. 6 contain the following personal data: 1. the names; 2. date of birth; 3. place of birth; 4. sex; 5. personal number/personal number of a foreigner, if any; 6. citizenship; 7. existence of other citizenship; 8. address in the Republic of Bulgaria; 9. national identification document number; 10. the names of the dependents residing in the Republic of Bulgaria together with the person; 11. quality (worker in NATO or user structure). (b) The current para. 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 5, 6, 7 and 8. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 in the words "Art." 18, para. 6, p. 2 or para. 7, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 18, para. 7, p. 2 or para. 8, p. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4. (aa) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 18, para. 6, p. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 18, para. 7, p. the following point is inserted (bb) c. 3 words.............................................................................. 18, para. 6, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 18, para. (c) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (b) in para. 5 words................................................................................. 18, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 55th para is This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 6 and 7: To the servicemen and members of the civilian component of the NATO structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria as well as their dependents, the Ministry of Defence shall be issued a map of an employee in the NATO structure or of a dependent person with a period of validity of the service in the structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria. (7) The order for issuing the card under para. 6 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (b) The current para. 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 8, 9 and 10. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 4. The map of art. 59, para. 6 except for the data under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 contains and: 1. photo of the holder; 2. signature of the holder; 3. address in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. document number; 5. date of issue; 6. date of expiry; 7. the authority that issued the document; 8. quality of employee in the structure of NATO or person concerned. (b) The current para. 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 18, para. 2 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced 10. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 22: "22." "Reliable person' means a spouse of a serviceman or a member of the civilian component of a NATO structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as persons to whom the serviceman or the member of the civilian component exercises parental, guardianial or custody rights or is obliged to provide support under the legislation of the Sending State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any who wish to comment on the reported text of § 10? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. Slavcho Velkov (BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would also like to get some clarification that I believe will be of interest to everyone present here. According to the requirements of the Bulgarian legislation regarding the issue of personal documents, including Bulgarian MPs for their diplomatic passports, there is a mandatory requirement for biometric data. Here I do not see such a requirement for addicts, for example any employee of a structure who is from Swaziland or North Korean. I just want to get Mr. Gazhev's explanation for what it is. Secondly, I promised the President of the Commission General. Popov, reserve the right to ask him now at the Commission meeting. Given that in a few months' time, I am saying that the Istanbul Convention was adopted, i.e. 4 of art. 18, para. 4 writes....................................................... Ergo, now in the I.D., there's a man or a woman in the applications. If she's accepted, what do we do? What are we gonna write? Either we change this law now, or we have to make a new law!?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u110	I won't ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u111	Mr. Chairman, please tell there to someone who calls under a Surdine to ask Stanishev. It's not my job to ask Stanishev, and I'm asking the importers what we're going to write about Paul? Because Mr. Tsvetanov, one week ago, on the corner, said: "The request will be accepted within a week." I told him not to say big words, he better throw a big rock. But whatever. I'm asking the importers what we're going to write at the site of the field. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u112	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. A line? [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Personal explanation? Mr. Gazhev, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u113	Since I was mentioned by name, I take the floor for a personal explanation. However, it should be borne in mind that the military and civilian components and the dependents who come to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria have their personal documents from the Sending State. There, depending on whether the state accepts biometrics or does not accept biometrics, these are identification cards. Anyway, that's different. As for the very lines concerning the Istanbul Convention, these speculations that continue to this day on the introduction of different sexes, apart from constitutional and biologically defined, speak only of the level of debate. Thank you. [[(Applause and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any other lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u115	That was a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u116	This was a personal explanation, although you have gone beyond this format and entered into a controversy about the Istanbul Convention. I think it's more like a line to the statement. It's right to give the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u117	Thanks, charge it any way you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u118	The line and the back, I say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u119	It's a hole. I do not accept qualifications, Mr. Gajev, of the kind of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question was precise and clear. This is about Bulgarian ID. Why, since for all Bulgarian citizens, including I say about both Bulgarian MPs and Bulgarian servicemen, when they receive such foreign passports, there are biometrics, for these people there is no biometric data? That was my question. The other question to which I did not hear an answer regarding art. 18, para. 4 t. 4 for gender in accordance with the Istanbul Convention. If you don't accept it, it stays that way. But if it's accepted, what are we gonna write? I promise to him who called, he doesn't have the courage to come here to talk that I won't ask Stanishev, I have my own opinion on the matter which is not formed by this of Mr. Stanishev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u120	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. We are discussing the wording of § 10. Are there any other statements? I don't see any requests for other speeches. We are going to vote on § 10 in the version of the text proposed by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u121	There is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov to create a new § 11. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services in art. 27, para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 59, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 59, para. 10..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u122	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. We are going to vote on § 11 by text and edit proposed by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 89, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u123	There is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov to create § 12. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Electronic Identification in art. 22, para. 2, p. 5 words................................................................................. 59, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u124	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of § 12 on the text proposed by the Commission to create a new § 12. They voted 112 MPs: 92, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u125	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u126	Are there any statements on the reported text? I can't see. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 91, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u127	There is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 12 shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u128	Are there any speeches on the last paragraph? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are voting on § 14 by text and version proposed by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 93, none, abstention 19. The proposal is adopted, and with this in full at second reading The bill amending and supplementing the Law on passage and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 702-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On 21 December, the Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing a procedure. This item 5th of the agenda.. First vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Assistance Act, become item 4 and item 4 of the agenda.. Second vote of the Draft Law on Markets in Financial Instruments, become item 5th.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u130	You propose that a change in the agenda, as was voted on the fourth and fifth, be changed. I put to the vote the proposal of the People's Representative Desislava Taneva point five of the adopted agenda, namely: First vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for support for farmers to become point four by changing their place and order with the Second vote of the Law on Markets and Financial Instruments. Vote 109 MPs: 93, Against 2, abstention 14. The proposal is accepted, and with this point fifth becomes point four in our weekly program. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR Customs. Who will report on behalf of the Commission? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u131	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. At a meeting held on 25 January 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. The bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance. The need to amend and supplement the Customs Act is determined by the existence of imperfections in the current legal framework and the need to align the practice as well as the precision of the provisions for their practical application. One of the main priorities outlined in the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2020 is the reduction of the administrative burden for business and citizens. Certificate of Criminality as a certification document is required when entering the Office of Customs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 10a, para. 1 of the Customs Act there is a requirement for the verification of the judicial status by the persons, which is why it is proposed to regulate the professional collection of this information concerning the judicial status of the persons. A new position is established in the structure of the Central Customs Office. The proposal for a new para. 4 shall be in the provision of art. 11 and with a view to securing the powers of the Director of the Customs Agency, given the optimization of the structure of the administration at central level. Following 1 May 2016, new Union customs legislation is in force, as set out in Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Union Customs Code, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for certain provisions of the Union Customs Code and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447 of 24 November 2015 laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Union Customs Code. Therefore, the Bill provides for the issuance of a receipt by the customs authorities where the customs declaration for goods subject to import or export duty or other taxes/taxes is made in oral form in accordance with art. 135 and 137 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446. In view of the amendments to the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for registration of the prices of tobacco products adopted by Decree No 192 of the Council of Ministers of 2004, legal changes have been introduced in art. 6, as amended by the competent authority to register the prices of tobacco products as well as to keep a register of prices of tobacco products. There is also a need to define the concept of a family members for the purposes of art. Point (h) of paragraph 1 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447. The definition of the concept of a family member is extremely important when determining the customs value of the imported goods, since in many cases the connectivity of the persons affects the price of the goods, the same being reduced, avoiding the payment of import duties and value added tax. In order to facilitate the process of submitting applications and issuing authorisations, it is necessary to introduce a new provision allowing applicants to submit applications for the use of seals of a special type to the same customs authority competent for granting the authorisation to grant the status of an approved consignor, which is why a legal change has also been made in this case. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held, where the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. In the vote held with 14 votes, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. There is also a report from the Commission on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Please, let us know the contents of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. At its regular meeting held on 7 December 2017, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Finance Ms. Tatiana Nakova, State Expert, Department of Tax and Tax Administration and Mr. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency. The bill was presented by Mr. Borislav Borisov. The amendment and the Appendix to the Customs Act aims to bring national legislation into line with the customs legislation of the European Union and to reduce the administrative burden on citizens. The proposed supplement regulates the official collection of information on the judicial status of persons entering the customs administration. A new position shall be established in the structure of the Central Customs Office of the Directorate of the Office of Customs, which will assist the directors of the Directorates in the specialized administration of the Central Customs Office in the performance of the functions of the administrative unit. After 1 May 2016, a new customs legislation of the European Union is in force, in relation to which the bill regulates the model of receipt for oral declarations under art. 217 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447. There is a need to define the notions of sales price of "sales products', in this regard the change in the Law on Customs is proposed. 34 of the Additional provision. It is also necessary to define the concept of a single family member, which is extremely important in determining the customs value of the imported goods, in order to avoid reducing the price of the goods leading to the non-payment of import duties and value added tax. Following a discussion and a 15-vote vote held, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017 should adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Customs, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u134	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. These were the reports that came about the examination of the first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. We are going to debate. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak on the proposed bill? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u135	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The law on customs is the law of the Customs Agency and the law which regulates the activities of the authorities in the Customs Agency. The Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, according to the reasons and reports we have heard, aims to reduce the administrative burden and synchronise customs legislation with the same of the Union. Yes, it is normal in this Law that there should be a reduction in administrative burden for the reasons that I said, because this is the Agency's constitutional law and the law that regulates the activities of this agency. It is in this agency, as a large and profitable one, that there are many activities that can be unified and indeed reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. However, here in the Law and with this amendment, we are only offered to drop the certificate of criminality for the employees entering the Agency, which is assessed as a reduction of the administrative burden............................. only that, nothing else in the entire Customs Act. For me, this is a frivolous attitude to the priority you have set yourself as number one, namely the priority of the ruling coalition and the governance to reduce administrative burden. The fact that the requirement for the Agency's staff is reduced does not mean that the administrative burden for citizens and businesses is reduced. More than that. With these so frequent changes to the Customs Act, the administrative burden is increased because in the last two years we have six or seven amendments to the Customs Act. This is indeed an increase in administrative burden and creates problems in administration both for the Customs, so of course, for those who operate and are registered under this Law. In essence, the Law itself. The proposed changes. Yes, some of them are perhaps really in accordance with the requirements of the European regulation, but the strange thing is that more than a year and a half ago we assumed that we introduced all the requirements with the Law for amendment and supplement of the regulation, and today we have a proposal on this regulation again. It's about this receipt and what was read in the reports. I believe that, as a serious administration, the Customs Agency and the Ministry of Finance should carefully review the regulations and be made with one bill all necessary changes to the Customs Act. I do not agree and we cannot support the proposed amendment in § 3, namely that the directors of the Directorate of the Specialized Administration of the Customs Agency can be assisted by Deputy Directors. Nowhere in the Customs Act does not say what Directors of the Directorates will have the Customs Agency, and only it is indicated that there is a Director of Central Governance and Deputy Directors appointed by the Minister of Finance. All other posts shall be part of the Agency's Rules of Procedure, which shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers. That's why he speaks art. 11, in which this supplement was made. I don't think there's any room here, and I think it needs to be dropped. I also offered it to the Commission. I think there was no understanding on the part of the importers, but between the two readings we will make our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u136	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u137	Honourable Members, the changes are small and I would not have spoken if I had not been provoked by Mr Turnovalyski's statement. Firstly, I mean, you know that changes are being made to a number of laws in relation to reducing the administrative burden. Then, when the laws governing the criminal record decided and made the baseline change that the criminal record should be exchanged only by electronic means between different administrations and not by sending the person or the company, or by any means in order to obtain such a criminal record on paper. This had to be reflected in a number of other laws where there is a similar text. It is in this law, which we are currently looking at, that is the text. Mr. Turnovallisky's interpretation that this was about the Customs employees, it doesn't make any sense not to say that this is not true because it is about those who apply to be accepted for a job in Customs, but something must justify the position that the BSP will take after a while not to vote on the Bill. Secondly, he mentioned that, once again, changes are adopted in relation to European regulations that should have been adopted a year or a year and a half ago. Let Mr. Turnovalish's colleagues, who are more aware, know that regulations are a living organism and they are constantly changing, and any change to these regulations must at some point affect our legislation, although we all know that the regulation has direct effect and it may not even be reflected in our legislation directly, but it does have such a direct effect. I believe that this cannot at all be an argument for not supporting the bill. Of course, I would like to dwell on the third argument, which is absolutely groundless. Mr. Tarnovalyski said that, you see, in the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers, it is enough to record the position of Deputy Director of the Customs Directorate to make it a fact. However, before making speeches, even more to make proposals between first and second readings, whatever Mr. Turnovalyski's intention was to change this text a little while ago, it is good to take a little bit more law to see if it is lawful or what he will propose is unlawful. In this case, I have to tell you that in the Law on Administration are described what positions there are in the state administration and there is only in the main departments of the respective state institutions. In this case, we are talking about a deputy director of the Directorate-General, that is to say, there is no such possibility provided for in the Administration Act itself. You'll tell me why? Because the main directorates are supposed to be the major directorates and they actually need a deputy director to support management. Moreover, there is no such in the Classifier of the posts in the administration as well as in the Deputy Director-General of the Ministry of Customs and Customs, because in the Classifier it is clearly and categorically stated that you can refer to § 6 of the Transitional Provisions that the use of other names and posts is permissible only if this is provided for in a special law, and this is the special law that we are looking at today. And whether or not there is any need to have an assistant director is justified by the number of employees working in those specialized directorates that are involved in this case. I will give you only an example that 136 people work at the Customs Intelligence and Investigation Department. In the Department of Information Systems and Analytical Activity... 123 people. Thus, more efficient governance, the assessment that it would be more effective if the management of this Directorate were increased by one deputy director with the necessary powers, is a fact. But for that to happen, it is not enough to change the Rules of Procedure. It must find a place in the Classifier of Jobs. And the only legal way to do that is when it's provided for in the Special Law. So, honourable Members on the left, you have no argument not to support this bill. I understand that your directive is:.. Do not support anything that has been brought forward by those in charge, but it is still nice to have a person from time to time and have real arguments for such action. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, please, what is this rude attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Very please, not from the place, you have the opportunity to reply. That was Mrs. Stoyanova's statement. If anyone has objections, use the form according to our Rules. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for the many tips, but when you advise others to read, it is good for you to read a little more. Because, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, this is not about evidence of criminality for those who apply to the administration, but about those who have already accepted and submitted documents to be appointed. It's a huge difference. So it has nothing to do with reducing the administrative burden. And I am going to stress once again the Law on Customs, the Constitutional Law of one of the major agencies in the country, a law that regulates its activity. And the only thing you found as a reduction in the administrative burden is the criminal record of the employees you will appoint. Great implementation of the priorities you've set for yourself. Regarding whether it should be in the Act as vice principal or not, I'll check, I haven't checked everything you said, and if that's the case, okay, I might have made a mistake. But to give out of this microphone qualifications, when you yourself are not convinced of it, please, we may be a little more cooperative, because indeed in this Bill, which is yet another, sixth or seventh in two years, there is neither order to reduce the administrative burden. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u140	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Is there a second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova. You're welcome to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u141	Mr. Turnovallisky, because you accused me of the administrative burden of not reading, I must first tell you that before an employee is appointed, he is simply not an employee of this administration, but, if you say so, these are the details of the landscape. The other thing that you suggest not to have such a text means that only paper media and the requirement to get it out of court must remain only in this law, but these are words as much as you have to say. As for the Deputy Director, I will make it easy for you, Mr. Turnovalysky, with the right members, if you wish not to search under the entire laws, but to focus on those members who refer to the subject, and I will ask you, instead of me, to declare incompetence or ignorance, that you prepare yourself better before speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Time has come. Are there any other speeches to determine whether we will proceed to the vote? Are there any MPs who wish to make speeches? I suggest then that we proceed to a vote on a bill before the break. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. They voted 84 MPs: 61, against 2, abstention 21. I mean, it was announced on the board that the proposal was accepted, and it is not because 67 votes are needed. A re-voting proposal? Mrs. Stoyanova? [[Heckling]] Mrs. Stoyanova gave a sign, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! Please first invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber, because you can see that the House is quite frivolous, and when the vote is coming, it is nice to take them in from the couloirs. So I'm asking you to ring the bell to summon them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u144	I'm doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u145	...to enter the hall. Then, of course, I want you to put to the vote the procedure for revoting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Your reason is obvious. Members of parliament who have not voted are entering at the moment. Please take your seats. Again, I am reporting on the draft legislation. We are voting at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. Vote 117 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 26. The proposal is adopted, and with this at first reading the Customs Act, No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Dear MPs, I am telling you of an invitation to the opening of an exhibition in the Northern lobby of artist Georgi Andonov. The exhibition presents 17 portraits of historical personalities. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Rest till 12:00, 10:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u147	We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It was introduced on 19 January 2018. We begin with the First Voting Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u148	Mrs. President, first of all, I would like to propose access to Mrs. Vergina Krasteva's Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Forests and Mr. Georgi Pramatov's Director of the Directorate of Direct payments and identification of agricultural holdings in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u149	Dear MPs, we are voting for access to the hall of Deputy Minister Krasteva and Mr. Pramatanov. Vote 73 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister and the Director of the Directorate to the Hall. Please continue, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u150	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 802-01-4 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 24 January 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the Commission was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Vergina Krasteva The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Vergina Krasteva, who noted that the amendment is necessary in connection with a criminal procedure against Bulgaria to limit access to direct payments on an area of potential candidates for assistance. The Bill creates an opportunity for the Paying Agency to carry out checks for artificially created conditions. It is envisaged that the order by which the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry approves the scope of the specialized layer of areas eligible for assistance to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The text regulating the terms and conditions under which registered farmers apply for support under direct payment schemes is amended. Applicants will apply for the relevant calendar year and the requested areas should be available to them, i.e. legal grounds for use under the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land are registered for them. The legal bases will be registered in the respective municipal agriculture office in a specialized software product of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Ministry will summarize and transmit this data to the Paying Agency, which will compare it with the application data. Where the requested areas exceed the registered legal bases for use, the Agency will issue an error warning. Upon expiry of the deadline for submission and modification of applications, the Paying Agency will carry out additional administrative checks on applications for which an error warning has been issued and will accordingly reduce the amount of payment for areas for which no registered legal basis for use has been established during the verification. The Ministry explained that the application procedure did not substantially change, the application procedure remained the same, the legal bases also remained as a requirement of eligibility for support. The only difference is that the existence of valid legal bases will be established not when the applications are submitted but when the administrative checks are carried out by the Paying Agency. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Petar Petrov insisted explicitly that when the areas allocated for use for which there are no leases and leases concluded and no declarations were submitted, the so-called "white spots" were not paid, they would not be recognised as a valid legal basis. In addition, it claimed that the Law should provide for a specific deadline for registration of the legal bases. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) pointed out that there are a number of ambiguities regarding the application procedure. They pointed out that by referring to the law on ownership and use of agricultural land without reference to specific texts, it is not clear which are the legal grounds which will be regarded as valid. They also noted that it is not clear how prepared and protected the Ministry's software is, where legal grounds are registered, and that the work of the administration will be very difficult given the short deadlines within which the documents for the upcoming campaign should be processed. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill. The DPS parliamentary group noted that they considered the application procedure in place to be very detailed, but noted that it was able to largely discipline farmers. In this regard, they expressed the concern that the proposed new version is too general and vague. From the parliamentary group of the European Commission, the Commission noted that there should be instructions for farmers on how the new procedure will be applied. GERB parliamentary group said they would support the Bill, but between first and second reading the application procedure for support should be refined to ensure that only conscientious farmers are supported. They noted that all applications submitted should be subject to administrative checks, that it is necessary to specify precisely the valid legal bases and that, if necessary, legal definitions of some of the concepts used would be given. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Will there be a presentation of the reasons of the importer and the opinion of the importer? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! I will start by saying that, within one month, this is the second time we have amended the Agricultural Aid Act. It is even more worrying that this change comes literally one month before the launch of the adoption of the new applications for support for 2018. That is, the changes that are being proposed must be respectively... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u153	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u154	... Since it is not an interesting topic, I suppose, but still farmers have the right to hear what is and what is expected of them. One month before the adoption of applications for assistance, we are changing order and thus completely liberalising the course of submission of applications. During the discussion itself in the Committee on Agriculture, it was stated that this is almost not a request from the European Commission, and within two or three years there has been a serious communication with the European Commission on the fact that in Bulgaria the Law does not provide access to applications from farmers. My first objection to this debate with the European Commission is that perhaps our country has not protected the state of land relations in the country well enough. Because Bulgaria is unique, it is unique and is reported not only in the countries of the European Union, but also in the global context with regard to the land reform. There are extremely many problems related to ownership and land use, and from now on the problems that we are trying to solve in the legislation in sufficient detail, have the task of precisely making the necessary environment for submitting applications such that no overlaps of the area are allowed, not to use or not to provide support without legal basis. However, all of this in the proposed changes is reversed with the requirements for those who will have to submit applications. Everyone will have the right of access to an application, provided that the procedures that have been scheduled so far have outlined absolutely all the possibilities for ensuring that access is made available. I ask myself as a hypothesis: which of the options is not described in the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land? For me, the only possibility unwritten is the oral contracts. My question is: shall we allow the oral contracts in access to applications? As strange as it may seem, that's the only thing that's not written in the legislation. I may not be right, but I didn't find any other option in securing access. Once access is provided, from then on begins the procedure leading to the administration having to make the necessary efforts to translate this access into the language who has the right to support and receive the support funds. During the debates, it was said that this would burden the administration, provided it is working with software that has been used so far, and that the administration will hardly increase its capacity. It therefore seems hypothetical to me that, in many of the prescribed deadlines for submission of the application, checks, payments within the year will not be able to make payments for at least 2018 for a large proportion of farmers. Our second objection to the Bill relates to the fact that for the second time we are signing rules of relations between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the State Fund of Agriculture. As far as I know, the State Fund is part of the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. What we need to insert texts, as we are doing now, is the legal basis, i.e. the specialized layer is created in the Ministry and is provided to the State Fund of Agriculture. The State Fund is conducting checks, notice, making additional administrative checks! In this condition, they must not be additional but must be mandatory and cover all farmers. That term hangs a little in the air. Once he does the additional administrative checks, he will contact the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for further information if necessary. I ask: why is it necessary in the legislation of the so-built working structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the State Fund to describe such procedures in the laws? This is making me distraught. This means that some of the coordination between the two structures is not good and we need, here in Parliament, as an institution, to regulate relations in order not to confuse someone on the track who is doing what. We will abstain from the adoption of the Bill, as we announced during the Commission, because it seems to me that this will create more problems than it will solve any problem, except perhaps the European Commission, which can pat us on the shoulder, even though then we, by creating problems, have to remove them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u155	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines to her statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, but I think Mr. Petrov was first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u156	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Petrov, thank you for giving me your seat. As you said, Professor Bachvarova, our country is truly unique in the reform of agriculture. This reform, however, has not been carried out by us or our coalition partners from GERB, but by very other people. We all know the problem of the fragmentation of the land and the small plots that came together. Colleagues, I call for you to support this law because the change proposed in the Agricultural Aid Act concerns only technical matters. This does not aggravate the beneficiaries and users who will apply for support, as the administration will be tasked with carrying out further checks. As you mentioned in your speech, Professor Bachvarova, the question of why these amendments introduce terminology, words, expressive means that we, as farmers, could not understand at the first moment. After that, the team of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry explained well enough that there was such a procedure by a certain number of interested parties, which farmers had not been admitted to support on the basis that they had declared for support agricultural land under the so-called "mouth contract', which cannot be denied that it does not exist as such in law. Professor Bachvarova, you know very well that when two or more farmers show up with some plot in the municipal office and submit their application for assistance, of course, two can claim to have an oral contract, but when a written contract is shown and the real owners are called to say which of the contracts is more powerful, the natural written contract and the claims of the parties in it are of much greater weight, respectively, of the oral stated. Colleagues, this is really about aggravating the work of the ground committees and the services that accept applications for assistance because they heroically defend and defend farmers' rights and work around the clock during a campaign. I think this time they will be able to cope, regardless of the miserable salaries they receive, although this is a completely different topic. Colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment in order for the campaign to be successful, not to disturb farmers and to start their field work calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u157	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines to Mr. Apostolov's statement? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, perhaps everyone will get more interesting, and especially Mr. Stoynev, when farmers start protesting and he goes and starts talking: [[Noise and lines.]] It is about something very important that legal conditions, grounds, very detailed in the previous law, which said under what conditions someone could apply for assistance, are now dropping out. In order to meet the requirements of the European institutions, it is possible for all who present any legal basis to enter their documents. Then the people who need to check the documents will have to accept the role of investigators, sometimes judges, in order to determine whether a legal basis corresponds to a chapter of some law. This is something very dangerous, and it can lead to very serious disputes next summer, such as renting and renting land. The BSP colleagues will benefit very well from this thing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this amendment of the Law, I have expressed this opinion in the Commission to be added in addition to the precise, clear legal conditions to apply and receive assistance, to include other conditions that have emerged in the meantime, including an oral agreement, but to be recorded and to know for what reason you are importing your documents. I asked the question: if there is an unscrupulous employee in the system who accepts a legal basis of responsibility for the right and this has led to the harm of people who are in their right to participate, what is going on? The old law dealt with the matter of white spots. If some of the MPs do not know, this is a problem that will arise this summer. In no way will the people who will submit documents and prove legal reasons be obliged to have paid the money for the white spots. This thing was said in the old law, but the new one is missing. We leave to the conscience of the man who processes land that is not mentioned but is foreign property and he used it will remain only on his conscience to have the obligation to deposit the money on the special account that we created with the previous Law. This is very dangerous and I think we will create more conditions for BSP to be interested in municipalities whether their voters have received the money under the white spots. Another important condition has also been dropped: after October 15th, to begin to state the intentions of who wants to do what on the respective parcels. Now these intentions can be presented on May 31st, as explained by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Okay, but you know that the very separation within the municipalities, when people gather, is June month! And in May, someone has already filed legal grounds?! What are you dividing?! It's gonna be a big mess. Therefore, without interfering with the political power to which I belong, I myself will refrain from voting on this law, as a man well aware of the law, bearing in mind that it will lead to many difficulties. I hope you will think very well between first and second reading, if possible, and these difficulties will be overcome. I repeat: in what we are voting at the moment, there are no precise and clear rules on legal grounds when the documents are submitted. Second: there are no obligations of the land-processing companies to have paid, and that of the white spots, and then to re-submit the legal grounds. Thirdly, the time limits to bring in the grounds for land processing for the next period, which we have been clear and thought about in the Commission, have been shifted very far back in time and will create a mess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u159	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed bill is not under policy making, concepts, strategies, but on a very specific occasion and it is the ugliness of a criminal procedure by the European Commission as a result of complaints by our farmers. After nearly two years of correspondence between the Commission and the Ministry, another amendment is required in the Agricultural Support Act. I say the next one, because as the previous ones said, only two weeks ago we were looking at this bill again. In order to avoid the ugliness of a criminal procedure, changes to this law are required. There are things that we in our parliamentary group would agree to to avoid penal procedure. Yes, there are useful things in the Law. This is, for example, the obligation to establish a unit to verify the artificially created conditions and the same conditions for supporting all farmers. That's a nice text. The other fine text is for example to be promulgated except on the website of the Ministry and in the Official Journal. Unfortunately, good things stop there. What worries us the most is the part about proving the legal basis for the use of agricultural land. What are we doing with the new bill? In the old bill we had a precise, extensive, detailed list of all the legal grounds that farmers can use when applying for direct payments. From a comprehensive list of the legal bases in the old bill, now in the new one we move on to a general and vague definition, which is the legal basis, which are the documents for the legal basis?......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our other concern is what we read in the Bill and what our colleagues in the Ministry say. Colleagues at the Ministry say, "Do not change the rules. We're working under the same rules. However, if someone reads the texts in the Bill, it is not clear. I say all this because between first and second reading there would be a lot of proposals that would specify exactly these texts in order to eliminate doubts, or in the form of additional texts between first and second readings, or for example colleagues from the Ministry of Education to be described in instructions, in regulations, in regulations and in a number of other such documents. The other thing that concerns us, my fellow Members, is the extremely short term. In exactly one month, the new campaign for direct payments is launched. For this month, the administration has to start working on the new rules, and farmers, who have over 100,000 direct payments, have to start working on the new rules. To revise the software, to train the administration, to train farmers, I think that within this short one-month period this will be very difficult. The opinion of our parliamentary group is that the order must not be changed. Good or bad, I must admit that all farmers have become accustomed to working in this order.. He has a disciplining character. On the other hand, the administration also got used to working with this order and also worked successfully. Any change, any shock, colleagues, in the application mechanism and for the approval of direct payments would cause serious shocks and would cause failure, you know, of the largest resource under the Rural Development Programme in the part of direct payments. Finally, I address my colleagues from the Ministry and colleagues on the right: colleagues, give these bills not on the principle of error, not on the principle of lying per tadpole, because for the second or third time we have been looking at this law in the last few months, but it seems that not only this one. My request is more conceptual, earlier. If there are any amendments, changes, we can insert all these bills, not an hour at a time, and within three months, we can watch the same law three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? There are no lines. The next statement is from Mrs. Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u162	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my speech, I would like to say that the GERB parliamentary group will support the Draft at first reading with the relevant remarks, which reflect the agreement of previous, previous speakers from the different parliamentary groups and from the BSP, and from the United Patriarchs and from the DPS. I believe that together we will find the texts that must reflect the concerns of colleagues from all the parliamentary groups that have spoken before me. We will support the Bill at first reading on the occasion of the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in their communication with the European Commission. As Mr Abase said before me, I would like to stress that at the moment, the way the requests for assistance have been stated, the way the system works, is disciplined. Rules have been introduced, which are already known by farmers and, most importantly, which lead to agricultural subsidies being obtained from farmers who carry out the agricultural activity concerned, and this is an objective that all political forces in the years of governance after our entry into the European Union have, in one way or another, sought to achieve. I think that when we introduced these rules, although we received a lot of criticism from the opposition then, everyone was convinced that this was the way in which transparent rules should be introduced in the sector regarding the allocation of financial resources. This has also been stated during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food and by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry that we will also receive their expert support to make changes to the texts, to clarify them so that there is no way to back down from the current principles of public relations in the context of the declaration of support areas. To really respond to the vision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the occasion of our communication with the European Commission, but at the same time to clearly defend the principles of the functioning of the system so that they are fair, payments be made to farmers who carry out agricultural activities, with all the legal grounds necessary for that, which they duly have and have registered. This is very important because in the sector there must be equality of all agricultural operators. I think we'll find, and we're already working in that direction... Yes, time is short, but we all need to be aware that the campaign starts on March 1st. Yes, unfortunately, the deadline is short, but we must make it possible for everything to be corrected, done and made clear by March 1st. However, as stated at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, a retreat from what has been achieved as a disciplinary effect should not be done, we will not do, there is no such will in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food itself. Rather, it is about editorials to do so that the current wickets are not used. Secondly, regardless of what form the Law will be adopted at second reading or in its final form, it must be clear that the current principles remain and for farmers there should be no principle change given the changes in the procedures of some of the deadlines. This would lead to the improvement of the administration in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and it should be prepared for this so that farmers in normal order benefit from the rights which the respective funds give them for support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any lines? First line, Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Taneva! I followed up on the statements of all the parliamentary groups and they have reservations about this bill for a reason. My line to you relates to your claim that including the opposition... I would like to remind you that the 40th National Assembly began this disciplinary effect with the introduction of the legal bases. We have supported absolutely all the changes applied so far to precisely editing, correction, so that things really become transparent and accurate. It is not an honor to use the stands of the National Assembly precisely in this direction to seek, how to say, the guilty in the face of the opposition. We are in favour and have always supported changes in this direction. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u165	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u166	I didn't have anything concrete. I don't know why Professor Bachvarova took it that way. Agricultural laws have always sparked violent debates in this room. In the beginning, this process seemed too complicated, too aggravating, and I had in principle the thought that this has always been the result of fierce debates, but with nothing concrete I did not mean to offend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Dear MPs, today the guests of the parliament are a group of Varna city are currently on the balcony. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 802-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018. Vote 138 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As it became clear in the debate, the campaign began on 1 March, which is why I am making a procedural proposal that the period between first and second reading of the newly adopted bill will be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u169	We are voting on the procedural proposal made just now to reduce the period between first and second readings to three days. They voted 124 MPs: 95, against 10, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKETS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, I see you're heading for the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u170	Thank you. Madam President, I ask for a procedure to allow the representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission: Mr. Boyko Atanasov Vice-President, Mrs. Anna Andonova Director of the Directorate of Legal and Mrs. Petya Haytova, as well as Mrs. Tsvetinka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u171	We are voting on the proposal for admission in the hall of persons just read by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 110 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 4. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u172	This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. ..................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part One. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u173	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for the name of Part One, the text of the importer for the name of Chapter One, art. 1 and art. 2. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u174	Under art. 3 The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, such as: 1. Alinei 4 and 5 to be amended as follows: The Financial Supervision Commission shall exercise the powers of a competent authority under art. 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, art. Art. 14, par. 6, art. 21, 24, 26, 35, 36, paragraph 4, art. 39 (3) (except structured deposits), art. 42 (except structured deposits) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', and the Commission shall take the relevant decisions on a proposal from the Vice-President. (5) The Vice-President shall exercise the powers of a competent authority under art. 16 of Regulation (EU) 600/2014. 2. Alinea 7 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u175	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 3 with the editing for para. 4 and 5 of the Commission and the proposal para. 7 to be rejected. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u176	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4, by proposing in point 4. 4 the words "to be settled by physical delivery or by cash settlement' shall be replaced by "to be settled by physical delivery or cash settlement'; 6 words with physical delivery settlements shall be replaced by physical delivery settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5, such as: 1. In para. 1: a) in the text before t. 1 at the end to be added: the following persons, unless otherwise provided for in it: (b) Paragraph 10 shall be amended as follows: ..10. persons trading on their own account, including market makers, with commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives thereof, excluding persons trading on their own account when executing orders from clients; or persons providing investment services other than those providing investment services on their own account, commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives thereof, to clients or suppliers within the scope of their core business, provided that: (a) in each of those cases, separately and aggregate, this shall be an additional activity according to criteria laid down by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/592 of 1 December 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the criteria for determining when an activity is considered to be additional to the basic business, hereinafter referred to as the "Delegated Regulation (EU) No" (OB, L 87/492 of 31 March 2017.) to their core business when examined at group level and provided that their main business does not consist in the provision of investment services within the meaning of that law and Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OB, L 173/349 of 12 June 2014).), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/65/EU" or activity under art. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act, respectively banking activity pursuant to Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OB, L 176/338 of 27 June 2013.) hereinafter referred to as the "Guidelines', or operating as a market maker in respect of commodity derivatives; (b) those persons do not apply a high frequency method for algorithmic trading; and (c) such persons shall notify the Commission annually under the order of para. 7 that benefit from the exemption; 2. in para. 6 words................................................................................. 102-107-to be replaced by. 102? 3. paragraph 7 shall be amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, t. 10 inform the Commission that they will benefit from the exemption on the basis of para. 1, t. 10 if there is a basis for this and within 1 November of the previous calendar year. 4. in para. 8 and 9 words. 1, t. 10, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1, t. 10..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There's no wish to make a statement. Vote art. 5 in the version of the Commission, just read by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Two, Title One, Chapter Two, Section I, and art. Six by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u181	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Part Two, Title One, Chapter Two, Section I and art. 6. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u182	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, as in para. 1 to be added at the end, unless otherwise provided for by law or regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u183	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 7 in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u185	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. Art. 8, Art. 9 and the name of Section II. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u186	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10, by offering in para. 2 and 3 words under Art. 6, para. 2, p. To be replaced by............................................................................................................ 6, para. 2, p. Three, six, eight, and nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u187	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the proposal for art. 10 with the Commission's proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u188	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, as well as the name of Section III, shall also support the text of the importer for art. 11, 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u189	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the texts proposed by the Commission............................................................................................ 11, the name of Section III, art. 12, 13 and 14. 88 MPs voted: 88, none against, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15, by offering para. 2 to be amended as follows: For the issue of the approval under para. 1 The investment firm shall submit an application to the Commission with the data and documents annexed thereto certifying compliance with the specified requirements for those persons pursuant to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/1943 of 14 July 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulated technical standards for information and requirements for the authorisation of investment firms (OB L 276/4 of 26 October 2017).), hereinafter referred to as the EU's Delegated Regulation 2017/1943 "Commission Implementing Regulation of 19 June 2017 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to notifications from and to applications for licensing and authorised investment firms pursuant to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 276, 26 October 2017.), hereinafter referred to as the EU Implementing Regulation No 2017/1945.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. Vote art. 15 as amended by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u192	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u193	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to a vote on art. 16 and the name of Section IV. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, by offering para. 2 to be amended as follows: For the issue of the licence under para. 1 an application shall be submitted to the Commission, to which data and documents as defined by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/1943, Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1945 and with a statement of origin shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u195	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 17. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Art. 18, Art. 26 including, by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u197	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Apparently not. We are going to vote on Articles 18 to 26 inclusive. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section V as well as by art. Art. 27, Art. 32 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u199	We are discussing the name of Section V and Articles 27 to 32 by importer. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We vote on the name of Section V and Articles 27 to 32 inclusive. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u200	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and for Articles 33 to 41 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u201	I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the name of Chapter 3 and Articles 33 to 41 inclusive. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 4 and the name of Section I and of art. Art. 42, Art. 44 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u203	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 4, Section I and Article 4. Art. 42, Art. 44 included. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u204	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II and by art. Art. 45 to art. 48 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u205	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Section II, of art. Art. 45 to art. 48. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u206	The Commission shall support the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, by offering in para. 5 words................................................................................. 77-82 76-82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51, by offering in para. 1 the word "supposes" to be replaced by "supposes" can be taken away. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u207	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We shall vote on Section III and on art. Article 49 52. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u208	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: ? Notify of planned acquisition Art. 53. (1) Any natural or legal person or persons acting in agreement who have decided to acquire a directly or indirectly qualified shareholding in an investment firm shall notify the Commission in writing before the acquisition. (2) The requirement of para. 1 shall also apply to any natural or legal person or persons acting in concert who have decided to increase their directly or indirectly qualified holdings so that they reach or pass the thresholds of twenty per cent, thirty per cent or fifty per cent of the capital or votes in the general meeting of an investment firm or so that the investment firm becomes their subsidiary as a result of this increase. (3) The persons under para. 1 and 2 shall submit to the Commission a notification indicating the participation in the capital, respectively the votes of the General Assembly they intend to acquire and the participation they will have after the acquisition. To the notification, persons shall also apply other data and documents specified by a delegated act which the European Commission shall adopt on the basis of art. Article 12 (8) of Directive 2014/65/EU. (4) When determining the amount of the qualifying holding, account shall not be taken of the voting rights or shares held by investment firms or credit institutions as a result of the provision of the services under art. 6, para. 2, p. 6, provided that such rights are not exercised or otherwise used to influence the management of the investment firm and that those rights are transferred within one year of the acquisition. (5) The persons under para. 1 and 2 may not acquire or increase directly or indirectly qualified participation in an investment firm before carrying out an assessment of the acquisition under art. 56... 60....................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u209	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter Five and Article 5. 53 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u210	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer as Articles 54 to 60 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u211	Are there any statements on Articles 54 to 60 included? I won't. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u212	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer on the names of Chapter 6 and Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II and for art. 62 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u213	Speeches, honourable MPs? I won't. We vote on the names of Chapter Six, Section I, art. Art. 61, Section II and Art. 62 by importer. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u214	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63, by offering in para. 4 t. 3 words to be replaced by the senior management staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u215	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for a text in art. 63 with the Commission's version. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u216	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64, as well as the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u217	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 64 and the name of Section III. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u218	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65, by offering in para. 1, t. 6 the words the services and activities under art. 6, para. 2 and 3 and to be replaced by the services and activities under art. 6, para. Two and three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u219	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 65 proposed by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u220	The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 66 to 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u221	Statements? I won't. We vote from 66 to 69. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u222	The Commission shall support the entries of the importer for the names of Chapter 7, Section I and for Articles 70 to 76 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u223	Are there any speeches? No requests made. We vote on the names of Chapter 7, Section I and Articles up to 76 inclusive. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u224	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77, by offering in para. 2 the words................................................................................. 6, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and to be replaced by the services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 2 and the activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u225	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text on the name of Section II and Article 2. 77 with the Commission's version. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u226	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer as Articles 78 to 81 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u227	Are there any who wish to speak on Articles 78 to 81 included? No requests made. We vote Articles 78 to 81, including by importer. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u228	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III and Articles 82 and 83 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u229	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section III, Articles 82 and 83. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u230	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, by offering in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u231	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 84 on the Commission proposal. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u232	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85, by offering in para. 3 the words supplier and systematic participant shall be replaced by supplier. 7 to be amended as follows: The content and format of the information under para. The Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/575 of 8 June 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in financial instruments with regard to regulatory technical standards for data published by implementing venues on the quality of execution of transactions (OJ L 87/152 of 31 March 2017.), hereinafter referred to as the "Delegated Regulation (EU) No'. The content and format of the information under para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as the "Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any statements on this text? I won't. We are voting on the text just read by Mrs. Stoyanova in the version of the Commission for Art. 85. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u234	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 86 to 89 including as well as the name of Section IV and art. 90 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u235	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We vote the members from 86, the name of the section, to art. 90 included. Please, voting mode. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u236	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91: "Discovery of Commercial Secrets" Art. 91. (1) In addition to the committee, the Vice-President and the authorising officers of the administration, the Committee shall be responsible for the purposes of their supervisory activities and within the framework of their verification order, as well as of the regulated market in which it is a member, the investment firm may provide information under art. 90, para. 2 only: 1. with the consent of your client; 2. in accordance with Title Two, Chapter 16a, Section IIIa of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, or 3. by decision of the court, issued under the conditions and by the order of para. Two and three. (2) The Court may order disclosure of the information under art. 90, para. 2 at the request of: 1. the prosecutor in the case of evidence of a crime committed; 2. Minister of Finance or authorized by him an official in the cases of art. 143, para. 4 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code; 3. the Director of the Territorial Directorate of the National Revenue Agency where: (a) evidence shall be provided that the inspected person has thwarted the conduct of a revision or verification or has not kept the necessary records and if there are material deficiencies; (b) an act of a competent State has identified the occurrence of an accidental event leading to the destruction of the verified person's records; 4. The Commission for the revocation of illegally acquired property and of the directors of its territorial directorates; 5. the Director of the State Financial Inspection Agency where an act of an agency body has established that: (a) the management of the inspected organisation or person shall prevent the carrying out of a financial inspection; (b) the audited entity or entity shall not hold accounts or be incomplete or unreliable; (c) there are data on missing or criminal offences; (d) there is a need for the imposition of postures on bank accounts to secure claims established under financial inspection; (e) an act of a State body has established the occurrence of an accidental event leading to the destruction of the reporting documentation of the inspected organisation or person; 6. the Director of the Customs Agency and the Head of Customs when: (a) by an act of a customs authority it has been established that the person examined has prevented the performance of a customs inspection or has not kept the necessary records and if it is incomplete or unreliable; (b) an act of a customs authority has established a customs infringement; (c) there is a need for the imposition of postings on bank accounts to secure a claim established by a customs authority collected by it, as well as to secure fines, legal interest or others; (d) an act of a State body has established the occurrence of an accidental event leading to the destruction of the records of the premises inspected by the customs authority; 7. the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior for the purpose of the investigation into criminal proceedings; 8. the President of the State Agency "National Security" or of a person authorised by him, where necessary for the protection of national security; 9. the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or an official authorised by the National Revenue Agency in the cases referred to in art. 143e, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (3) The Regional Judge shall decide on the request by a reasoned decision in closed session no later than 24 hours after its entry, setting the deadline for disclosure of the information under art. 90, para. 2. The court's decision is not subject to appeal. (4) At the written request of the Director of the National Investigation Service, the Chairman of the State Agency, the National Security Agency, or the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, investment firms shall provide information on the stocks and movements of the accounts of companies with more than 50 percent state and/or municipal participation. (5) In the case of data on organised criminal activity or money laundering, the chief prosecutor or his authorised deputy may ask investment firms to provide the information under art. 90, para. 2. (6) Outside the cases under para. The investment firm shall provide information on the financial instruments and cash to the clients of the joint ventures appointed by the court for the purpose of carrying out their functions in insolvency proceedings and of the resolution authorities under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. The information that can be provided in accordance with the order of the first sentence shall be determined by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We listened carefully to the text. Are there any speeches? No. We shall proceed to a vote on art. 91 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u238	We need to make a correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u239	I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u240	The text is not missed, Madam President. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 point (b) of point (b) of the word (s) of the person under review, in point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the word (s) of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be inserted after the word (s) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. 5 point (e) again we are talking about the reporting documentation, but it is not a member and remains a member of the reporting documentation, and in that regard we are talking about the reporting documentation again. 6 point (d) is again I'm proposing to you. 5 point (e) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u241	It's a significant remark. We shall vote on the wording of art. 91 with the change just read by Mrs. Stoyanova. Please, voting mode. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u242	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92, proposing the following version of Article 92. 92: "Save customer assets." Restrictions on the use of client assets Art. 92. (1) The investment firm holding the financial instruments and cash of clients shall take measures to protect the ownership rights of its clients on those assets. (2) The investment firm shall be obliged to separate its financial instruments and cash from those of its clients. The investment firm shall not answer to its creditors with the financial instruments and cash of its clients. No enforcement is allowed on the cash and financial instruments of clients for the obligations of the investment firm. (3) The investment firm shall not use financial instruments of its clients on its own account, on behalf of other clients or on behalf of any other person other than with the explicit consent of the client and under conditions specified by a regulation. (4) The investment firm shall not use customer cash for its own account except with the explicit consent of the client. The requirement by sentence first does not apply to the banks of the investment firms. (5) Inviolable to the client is the set-up of collateral, as well as other actions in respect of its financial instruments and/or cash, as a result of which a third party acquires the right to dispose of the financial instruments and/or cash of the client in order to satisfy a claim that is not related to a customer's obligation or to the services provided by the investment firm to the client. First sentence shall not apply where such actions arise from applicable legislation in a third country where the financial instruments and/or cash of the client are held. Madam President, the Commission supports the text of the importer as members from 93 to 95 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u243	Art. 1 (1) (a) 93 to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u244	To art. 95 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-31.u245	Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. We vote on the name of Section V, Articles 92, 93, 94 and 95, and this will be the last vote for today. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're putting an end to our work today. Tomorrow's a regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. We continue with Section VI of this bill. We're adjourned. Thank you all for their participation. [[PHONE RINGING]]
