ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, I suggest to your attention: Project! PROGRAM for the work of the National Assembly for the period 27 June 2018 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers. "Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs, 1 June 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 22 June 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. First vote on the Cyber Security Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 May 2018 3. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer "The Committee on Budget and Finance, 21 June 2018 4. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer supposed to the Committee on Health, 26 June 2018. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 4 May 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 6 June 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importers - Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, 13 June 2018 7. Draft for ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U). Importer "The Council of Ministers," 7 June 2018 8. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2017. Importer "Energy and Water Regulatory Commission," 28 March 2018. 9. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017. Importer "The Commission for Protection of Competition," 30 May 2018. 10. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2017 Importer "The Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, 9 May 2018. 11. Vote for a draft decision to vote mistrust the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in security policy. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 20 June 2018 The first point for Friday 29 June 2018 12. Draft Decision on the cancellation of the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly in 2018. Importers Point 2 for Friday 29 June 2018 13. Parliamentary control comprising: 13. Debates on asking by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. 13.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the National Assembly Work Programme for this week. They voted 167 MPs: 137, none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 to 26 June 2018: A bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act. Importers suppose Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers suppose Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importers suppose Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft decision to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in security policy. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision to cancel the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly in 2018. Importers Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process in 2017. Importer. The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2017. Importer of the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 "Analyse on the postal services market." Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 Importer "The Communications Regulation Commission." It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria that for participation in the joint training of the Forces for Special Operations of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria in the Hellenic Republic for the period from 24 June 2018 to 2 July 2018 he authorised the dispatch of military personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment and equipment. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 25 June 2018. No 803-09-38 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTANCE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention is § 60.. the text of the importer. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 213b: "Staying the complaint and the protest without movement Art. 213b. (1) If the cassation complaint or protest does not meet the requirements of art. Art. 212, Art. 212 213, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or his alternates, the Chair of the Board, respectively, shall leave them motionless and send a communication to the challenger to remedy irregularities within 7 days of receipt of the order. Where irregularities are detected in the course of the proceedings, the Judge-Rapporteur shall proceed in the same manner. (2) If irregularities are not removed within the period under para. 1, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or its alternates, the Chair of the compartment, respectively, shall leave the appeal or protest without consideration and shall terminate the proceedings in the case. Where irregularities are detected in the course of the proceedings, the court shall proceed in the same manner by ordering. (3) The persons under para. 2 return the cassation complaint to the Court of First Instance and when it has been lodged after the expiry of the appeal period. (4) The Act under para. 2 and 3 may be appealed with a private complaint. The order of the court of appeal shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u3	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 60, which shall become § 45. Vote 148 MPs: 146, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u4	According to § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs - § 61 - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The refusal, in whole or in part, cannot be withdrawn. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u5	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 45 against 47, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 61, which shall become § 46. Vote 138 MPs: 106 against 32, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u6	A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: § 62 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 62 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 62 by importer. Vote 131 MPs: 130, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u8	Under § 63, there is a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov, § 63, is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 63, is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u9	Statements? I won't. The situation is clear, but I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to put a consecutive vote, firstly, the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u10	[[sides microphones]] : They are the same as mine, and Zarkov's are the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u11	We'll take it by the book. They voted 125 MPs: 11 against 14, 100 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 63, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 16 against 32, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 47 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 115, none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted, with which we have concluded the second vote. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleagues for participating in Part One of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Next week, life and health, the second part.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u13	Thank you. We continue on the second point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE KIBERSIGUURITY LAW. Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on First Voting. You have the floor, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a proposal for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u15	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the House of the Deputy Minister of Interior. They voted 125 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u16	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. At its meeting on 6 June 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, Nikolay Aleksiev On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Tomislav Donchev. In its presentation it noted that the draft was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union (EU) which should introduce provisions in its national legislation and establish an organisation for the implementation of Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union. The main objective of the bill is the establishment of clear rules, the achievement of a high common level of network and information security in all segments of cyberspace, increasing the security of national and private networks and information systems at all levels, citizens, companies, state and business organizations, providers and users of services. The matter of cybersecurity is regulated in a number of laws, but it is not systematized and does not fully respond to the new challenges. In the context of increasing and irreversible digital dependence, the deficits in network information systems and the lack of regulation for effective security protection lead to compromise of basic services, suspension of activities and losses. The Bill also sets out the scope of the persons (s) to which the requirements of this Law are laid down. The adoption of the Law will establish a comprehensive system of coordination between institutions in the portfolio, as well as rules for reporting cybersecurity incidents affecting administrative authorities, essential service operators and digital service providers in relations at national, European and international level. With the adoption of the Bill, full compliance with Directive EU 2016/1148 will be carried out and the weaknesses of cybersecurity regulations will be eliminated. The cybersecurity bill regulates: - establishing conditions for building a system for preventing and combating cyber attacks; - limit the frequency of incidents, including those of a transnational nature, no matter where they take place, whether they affect individual countries or the whole of the European Union; - countermeasures and measures against incidents that cause major economic damage and undermine consumer confidence; - precision of the rules, criteria and conditions for determining operators of basic services and digital service providers; - introduce security requirements to be met by operators of essential services and digital service providers; - establishes administrative criminal provisions, determines the amount of fines and property penalties for violations of the Law. The Draft Law establishes new competent authorities, such as the National Single Contact Point, regulates the management and organisation of the National Cyber Security System, the National Cyber Security Coordinator, sector response teams for cybersecurity incidents (CIRCC), as well as a national cyber security incident response team, settles issues of inter-institutional interconnection and cooperation. Security requirements and standards shall be laid down to meet the information systems for the introduction, dispatch, processing, access, exchange, storage and backup of data and the general security measures to be taken. The Bill does not provide for new regulatory regimes, does not create a licensing, registration, authorisation or certification regime to be a burden on citizens and businesses. The higher level of security envisaged by the Bill will also improve the confidence of citizens and businesses in the online environment, but will also create the possibility of making more full use of the digital world's opportunities The draft in accordance with the Directive provides for the possibility of better interaction between competent authorities in relations to prevent, overcome crises and protect both at national level and between Member States of the European Union. Deputy Minister Zaprianov, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, said the bill is supported because it is the first systematic act to cover all aspects of cybersecurity. Support for the bill also announced the representatives of the attendees at the meeting of ministries and departments. The bill provides for the implementation of the planned activities to be within the budgets for the relevant calendar year of the responsible institutions, which is why the bill will not lead to the expenditure of additional financial and other funds. People's representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Krasimir Yankov, Ivan Ivanov took part in the debate. Mr. Tsvetanov stressed that the bill is a response to the need for improvement, systematization and implementation of a new up-to-date approach to overcome the challenges of the dynamically developing cybersecurity system. That is why this topic was one of the most important during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Mr. Yankov pointed out that the main task of cybersecurity is prevention, as well as providing a quick response to the identification and resolution of incidents and crises. Mr. Ivanov asked questions related to the draft summary for an overall preliminary impact assessment. They agreed that the bill needs clarification of concepts and other editorial amendments. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a cybersecurity bill, No 802 01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. The report on the Commission's Cyber Security Bill. Mr. General, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u18	♪ I can't believe the Defence Committee on a Cyber Security Bill No 802-01-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. supposed for first vote At a regular meeting held on 21 June 2018, the Defence Committee examined the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. 21 MPs were present. Atanas Temelkov, Chairman of the Agency, Kiril Doichinov, Secretary General, Vasil Gruncharov, Director of the Network and Information Security Directorate, Zlatina Buchkova, Head of Legal Affairs and Emilia Stojkova Senior Expert took part in the meeting of the State Agency. From the Ministry of Defence took part Anatoly Velichkov Deputy Minister, Lieutenant General Plamen Atanasov Deputy Chief of Defence, Georgi Sharkov. The meeting was attended by Ilija Milushev, Security and Defence Advisor of the President of the Republic. The Chairman of the Defence Committee informed that the draft was allocated to the Defence Committee and to four other committees, leading the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. It underlined that the Cyber Security Act aims to introduce the requirements of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union into national legislation. The Bill also describes specific responsibilities of the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence. The motives of the presenter under the Law were presented by the Secretary General of the State Agency "Electronic Governance" Kiril Doychinov, by the Chairman of the Agency Atanas Temelkov, by the Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov and by Georgi Sharkov, adviser to the Minister of Defence. It was noted that the main objective of the Bill was to establish clear rules and a high common level of network and information security in cyberspace, increase the security of national and private networks, and information systems. The adoption of the Law will establish a comprehensive system of coordination and interaction between the institutions concerned in the portfolio, as well as rules for reporting cybersecurity incidents at national level and between the Member States of the European Union. The matter of cybersecurity, which has so far been regulated in a number of laws, is systematized and meets the new challenges. It was highlighted that the bill is modern, revolutionary, with concrete measures. New tasks are under way with regard to the cyber defence of NATO and the European Union. The Bill guarantees national interests and, at the same time, complies with European requirements and deadlines. National Representative Vladimir Toshev expressed support for the proposed bill and noted that the bill is very important for security and defence because cyber threats can affect all sectors. The question was asked whether the bill was harmonised with relevant procedures in NATO and the European Union. From the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Kolyo Milev it was pointed out that they generally support the need for such a bill, but there is a need to improve its content, which is why they will refrain in the first vote and will make proposals between first and second readings. It was said that the draft did not specifically describe the place and role of the President and Supreme Commander-in-Chief, especially in war, military or other emergency, which was made in the National Cyber Security Strategy. There is also no indication of any tasks and functions of the Office of Military Information and the State Agency of Intelligence. A question was raised as to why new structures and bodies are being created and not further developed and expanded, if necessary, the functions of existing structures. On behalf of the importers Mr. Temelkov explained that the texts in the draft are harmonised with the relevant procedures in NATO and in the European Union and with the National Cyber Security Strategy. The position and role of the President and Supreme Commander-in-Chief are reflected in the Constitution and in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, but could possibly also be noted in this bill. A willingness to participate in a working group was expressed if necessary to reflect proposals received between first and second readings. In the subsequent vote of 13 votes......................................................................................................... and 8 votes................................................................................................................................................. STATEMENT: Asks the National Assembly to adopt the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. General. The Commission report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act follows. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, before reading the Commission report, please put to the vote for admission in the hall of Mr. Atanas Temelkov, Chairman of the State Agency.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u21	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Please invite the representatives of the Agency to the Chamber. Please continue, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u22	"Source report" for the first vote on the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. At its regular meeting on 21 June 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed the Cyber Security Bill No 802-01-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. He attended: Mr. Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; Director of the Department; Mr. Atanas Temelkov, Chairman; Mr. Kiril Doychinov, Director of the Directorate; Mr. Vasil Gruncharov, Director of the Directorate; from the Office of the Military Security... Mrs. Nikolay Nenkov, Vice-President; Mrs. Tanya Karakash. Director of the Directorate; Mrs. Violeta Ducheva, Director of the Directorate; from the Office of Military Information "Military General" Plamen Angelov, Director of the Service; from the State Commission on Information Security, Mrs. Kamelia Vasileva, Head of the Department, and Ms. Milena Hristova, Chief Expert. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Temelkov, who stressed that it transposes Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union. It provides a harmonised legal basis for combating cyber-incidents throughout the European Union. At present, in our country, there is no uniform principle of interaction in cyber-incidents and incidents in network and information security, as well as a comprehensive system of inter-institutional interaction and between EU Member States, in cases of cross-border incident and dimension. The legislation in force only indirectly reflects the concepts and lacks clearly identified bodies responsible for the sectors concerned. The main objective of the bill is to achieve a high common level of network and information security in all segments of cyberspace, to increase the security of national and private networks and information systems at all levels of citizens, companies, state and business organizations, providers and users of services. Its implementation is expected to result in a faster interaction between the authorities in the country and with the Member States by replacing the fragmented legislation with a single, comprehensive regulatory act covering all sectors concerned in cybersecurity; speed in procedures; adequate response to cyber-incidents at national and European level; reducing the negative impact of cyber attacks. In the presentation of the Bill, attention was paid to the fact that the implementation of its activities would be within the budgets of the relevant calendar year of the State institutions concerned, therefore there is no need for additional financial and other funds. The President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov reported the opinions received on the draft by the State Commission on Information Security, the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Brigadier-General Plamen Angelov presented the opinion of the service. People's representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Dimitar Lazarov and Philip Popov took part in the debate of the Bill, who said they support the Bill. People's representative Slavcho Velkov expressed a positive opinion on the principle need for a Cyber Security Act and made comments on individual situations in it. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 5 votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will be presented by Mr. Valkov. You have the floor, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a cybersecurity bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 6 June 2018, a cybersecurity bill was discussed, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Kiril Doychinov, Secretary-General of the State Agency The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Doichinov. The cybersecurity bill has been drawn up to implement the Republic of Bulgaria's commitments to introduce in its national legislation provisions and to establish an organisation for the implementation of Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union. Mr. Doichinov emphasized that there is no single principle of interaction in cyber-incidents and incidents in network and information security, as well as a comprehensive system for inter-institutional interaction and between the Member States of the European Union. There are also no clearly identified bodies and organisations responsible for the sectors concerned. At present, cybersecurity is perceived as a function of the Ministry of Interior, which is not in practice the case. Partially the matter is regulated in the Law on the Ministry of Interior, in the Law on the State Agency of National Security, the Rules for Implementation of the Law on State Agency of National Security, the Law on Counteracting Terrorism, the Law on Electronic Governance, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Criminal Code, the Ordinance on General Requirements for Network and Information Security and others. The aim of the proposed bill is to address the weaknesses of cybersecurity regulations. Mr. Doichinov noted that the Cyber Security Bill will regulate the organization, management and control of cybersecurity, and will define the competent authorities in the field of cybersecurity as well as their functions and powers. Separate texts of the Draft shall regulate the activities of taking the necessary measures to achieve a high common level of security of networks and information systems as the main pillar of cybersecurity. The institutional framework in the field of cybersecurity, the prevention and countering of cyber attacks, aimed at greater efficiency and better coordination between existing authorities and public administration units is established. The establishment of new competent authorities, such as the National Single Contact Point, the National Cyber Security Coordinator, sector response teams in cybersecurity incidents, as well as a national cybersecurity incident response team, is envisaged. It was pointed out by the importers that the Law will regulate the network and information security of the administrative authorities as well as the requirements for them to provide and be responsible for the network and information security of the information systems used by them, as well as the security requirements and standards to be met by the information systems for the introduction, dispatch, processing, access, exchange, storage and backup of data, as well as the general security measures to be taken. Next, the Cyber Security Act regulates the status and functioning of operators of essential services. After the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications expressed their support for the Bill, stressing that, within the framework of inter-agency coordination, before its entry into the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has expressed a number of remarks, including regarding provisions concerning the area of The representatives of the Ministry of Interior also spoke in support of the Bill. During the discussion with the importers, a question was raised by the National Representative Halil Letifov on the accountability and control of the cybersecurity body. On the part of Mr. Doychinov it was answered that the control should be carried out by the Council of Ministers as an appointing authority, and that the bill describes the functions of all those involved in the single action, as regards network and information security and the security of information systems. National Representative Dimitar Danchev paid attention to the participation of local government bodies in the activities of the organization, management and control of cyber security. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes in favour, without objection, and 9 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Cyber Security Bill, No 802-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As has become clear from the debates in the Commission, we have voted abstentions and abstentions, as we have fundamental considerations in terms of the philosophy of the Law and its direction. Our proposed bill aims to harmonise national legislation with European legislation. The draft introduces the requirements of a European Directive on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the European Community. The European Commission requires that certification schemes for products, services and processes be introduced at the level. The aim of this initiative is to enable growth in the European Union's cybersecurity market. All of us, as consumers, are facing increasingly serious challenges in cybersecurity. The European Union must improve people's awareness and the ability to respond to cyber attacks directed against the Member States or the institutions of the European Union. At the same time, modern systems can be seriously affected by security incidents such as technical damage or viruses. This type of incident is often linked to network and information security, is becoming more and more difficult to detect or not respond adequately to these attacks. However, the entry of information technology into all areas of life has a two-sided nature, on the one hand, the benefits of easier and faster management of different types of processes and, on the other hand, protection of communication-information infrastructure and data in these systems. At the same time, the development of communication information systems and the construction of cloud infrastructures offer new methods of access to data, but also pose new issues related to the protection of these data, the solution of which is directly dependent on the correct choice of cybersecurity architecture. Our proposed bill does not solve the main problems for example that the entire spectrum of vulnerable places and critical points should be covered. The information as such, regardless of its medium on which it is stored, and the type of its presentation in the transmission environment, paper, data sets, voice, video, telephony and so on, must be securely protected. Cybersecurity must reflect the current state of need and at a certain point in time there should be an opportunity to move on to a new, more perfect and more appropriate to the objectives of the organisation. Cybersecurity must ensure the achievement of the objectives of ensuring the security of information in local workstations, protecting the transmission environment, protecting data storage sites and, last but not least, protecting the cloud. The technological solutions in these few supporting points give macrograms and differences between the individual architectures for cyber security. To conclude, I can only add that our proposed bill will not produce absolutely any useful effect until the real question is put.. transparency, independence and freedom in the software code. Until this thing happens, we won't be able to talk about any cybersecurity. In view of what has been said and what has been said, I can only add that the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will refrain from the support of this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At present, in the area of cybersecurity in our country there is no basic law regulating this type of activity. The matter is partly regulated in the Law on Electronic Governance, in the Law on State Agency "National Security" in the Law on the Ministry of Interior and in order other legal documents. This law aims to bring together the fragmentation of cybersecurity legislation. There is also no uniform principle of interaction in cyber-incidents. There are no clearly identified bodies or departments responsible for the sectors concerned. Coordination is regulated in a possible cyber attack. The proposed Cyber Security Bill is an entirely new legal framework in the area which transposes Directive 2016 of the European Parliament into our national legislation. It is clear from the reasons of the Bill that, if it enters into force, it will arrange for the creation of new and national competent authorities in the field of a national single contact point; the management and organisation of the national cybersecurity system, the national cybersecurity coordinator, cybersecurity incident response teams and a social framework in the field of cybersecurity, namely preventing and countering cyber attacks, the status and functioning of operators of essential services, as well as the status and functioning of digital service providers. The law refers only to the sectors of impact from which companies and administrations will be affected, and the public sector, energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructure, healthcare, health institutions, including hospitals and clinics, supply and supply of drinking water, digital infrastructure, Internet exchange points. Internet providers and telecoms do not fall within the scope of the Law. The register of the entities will be in the State Agency. As weaknesses in the bill, I would indicate as insufficiently clear the definitions of operators for essential services, non-publicity of the register, as well as the large amount of sanctions provided for officials. Like any law, there will be a regulation of the Council of Ministers, and this gives the Council of Ministers an additional opportunity to constantly amend the scope of the Law. It is not clear what part of the Law has been transposed by the European Directive and what part has been written by the Council of Ministers.......................................................................... It is said that this will not aggravate the country's budget. In our opinion, it will be difficult, but when it comes to security, at least the price should be clear. According to industry specialists, it is advisable to introduce clear, objective and transparent mechanisms and procedures in determining operators of essential services and criteria for classifying incidents as having significant harmful effects. Despite critical times, the Bill deserves the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and insofar as it is in line with the European Union Directive. It deserves support because it allows to increase the level of protection against incidents, risks and threats to the network and national security of Bulgaria and the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u30	Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today our attention is offered a bill which has the claim to actually regulate a problem which is also part of our European Presidency, if I may say so, from the topics that have been affected as priorities. This bill also has the claim to transpose a European directive. I am surprised first of all by the fact that this bill is being dealt with today in this House, given that it has not passed through the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, because there is the most objective and, most precisely, the evaluation in which part the relevant directive is transposed. Such a discussion has also spread in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, where we wanted importers to obtain an accurate, clear and clear assessment of the extent to which the directive is transposed, the assessment of its impact and, above all, what costs will be in terms of the implementation of this bill. I was impressed that three options were provided in the reasons for the introduction and the corresponding tables. It is rarely seen in a single bill, when imported, to apply three options, and without having exactly, clearly, categorically explained which of the three options will be applicable to both costs and impact assessment and staff involved in this bill. The ambiguities regarding the way in which it will be applied and in general the efficiency that it will have remain quite serious. I have expressed reservations and I can say from now on from the stand that I will refrain from supporting this bill for several reasons. Firstly, it is not clear why a whole directive has not been transposed, what part has been transposed, and what part has been created by the Council of Ministers. The second reason why I will abstain is that according to these options which have been made available to me, it is not clear to me how much money will be spent from the state budget, i.e. at the expense of the taxpayer. Will new structures be set up, heavy, administrative, or will this be another non-working body? I notice that inside is the main activity of implementing the Law to be in the Agency for Electronic Governance. You remember that here, from this tribune, reserves have repeatedly been expressed with regard to this state agency, at least because progress in the implementation of electronic governance is so low, and the costs that have been incurred in this direction are cosmic. We even had a discussion, a debate here in this room, on this subject. The reservations regarding the work of this agency are extremely large and now, throwing another huge responsibility towards this agency, leads me to believe that this will be a law that will generate an extremely large amount of costs with an unclear result. Moreover, we have a current Law on Electronic Communications to date. There was no obstacle to transposing this directive as a law amending and supplementing this law. To a small or large extent, the regulation of electronic communications is precisely part of this element that we are currently discussing is cybersecurity. And if my colleagues in the specialized committee here disprove me that the Law on Electronic Communications has nothing to do with this, I think things are totally wrong. The creation of a new law, of a new structure to the Council of Ministers, although written in the Law, that it will not be state, but will be additional employees, leads me to believe that something is being done which is most likely to create a job for someone or there are enough employees who have nothing to do in the Council of Ministers, or we wonder how and where to bring new ones. That's the main question. Finally, I ask: where is the Presidential Institution and the National Assembly in those authorities involved in cybersecurity? They're just not there. Only as end users and to ensure their safety. So the law in this form is, to put it mildly, difficult to perceive. I say that because of these motives that I have stated here, I will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote: first vote on the Cyber Security Bill, the Council of Ministers is the importer. The bill was submitted on 30 May 2018. Please vote. They voted 118 MPs: 88, against 8, abstention 22. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill. For the procedure please, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal for a re-voting, with which I believe that we will give the other colleagues in the BSP group a chance to enter the Chamber and vote, including Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who was here yesterday passionately defending in the vote of mistrust the issue of security. Mrs. Ninova, colleagues from BSP, we are currently voting on the Cyber Security Act. You should be a little more interested in this subject. I'm asking for a re-election procedure! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u34	We're moving on to re-voting. We are voting again on the Cyber Security Bill, with an importer from the Council of Ministers, submitted on 30 May 2018. Please vote. They voted 120 MPs: 89, against 12, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We move on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REPRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES FOR MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC SUPERVISION ON THE REGISTERED AUDITORS, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR BUDGET AND PHYSICIATES, AS WELL as THE PROCEDURE FOR SELECTING PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Who will present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance and Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u35	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 20 June 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the rules of procedure for holding a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of members of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of new Commissioners. In accordance with art. 73, para. 3 of the Independent Financial Audit Act, the National Assembly must elect members of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors on a proposal from its President. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 21 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 73, para. 3 of the Act on Independent Financial Audit and Art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors and presentation of their documents. 1. Within 5 days of the adoption of these procedural rules, the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, after the selection of the General Assembly, shall propose to the President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors one person as candidate for a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors pursuant to art. 73, para. 2 of the Independent Financial Audit Act. Within 3 days of the expiry of the period referred to in the first sentence, the Chairperson of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors shall submit proposals for candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors to the Budget and Finance Committee through the President of the National Assembly. A separate written proposal shall be submitted for each candidate. The lack of a proposal from the authority under art. 73, para. 2 of the Independent Financial Audit Act does not stop the procedure. 2. Each proposal shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 72, para. 2 of the Independent Financial Audit Act on the existence of Bulgarian citizenship "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) Declaration of Independence under art. 72, para. 2, p. 4 of the Independent Financial Audit Act and of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property "Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 4" to the Decision; (e) a detailed CV; (f) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for a completed higher legal or economic education with an acquired educational and qualification degree of a Master's degree; (g) a criminal record; (h) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has knowledge in the areas related to the financial audit and has at least 5 years of professional experience in those areas. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 4. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail of the Commission. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Commission, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Applicants shall be submitted in alphabetical order to their own names by the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and to demonstrate his motivation for taking up the position in an exhibition within 10 minutes for each candidate. 5. The Commission shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates in alphabetical order of their own names within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly as a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Commission shall present the views and questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by draft decisions to select each candidate as a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. V. Election of members of the Public Supervision Commission of the registered auditors of the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the President of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote shall be evident through the computerised voting system and shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If one of the candidates does not receive the necessary votes in the vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The Project for a Decision is attached to the 4th issue. Annex No 1 to the Decision............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Madam President, Annex 3 has made a technical mistake in the declaration, and I declare in the sentence that in the last three years I have not, as well as during my work as President of the Commission for Public Supervision...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. We vote on the Decision, which was read by Mrs. Stoyanova, with the technical amendment in Annex No 3, where the word "President" is replaced by the word "Member." We are voting on the Decision and the four annexes with the technical amendment in Annex 3. They voted 114 MPs: 114, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICES, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR HEALTH AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, to present the Report and the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly At its extraordinary meeting on 26 June 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a draft decision adopting the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is necessary in relation to the decision adopted by the National Assembly on 20 June 2018. The decision to terminate the mandate of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Kamen Plochev (prom., SG No. 52 from 2018), due to objective inability to perform his duties as manager for a period of more than three months and in the performance of art. 93, para. 1 and para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the provision of art. 19th para. 5 sentence 2 of the Health Insurance Act a new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be elected by the National Assembly within 30 days of the termination of the contract in the cases under art. 19th para. Four of the S.I.E.L.D. The President, Dr. Daniela Daritkova, informed the MPs that a letter was received by letter from the Health Committee. No KZ-853-10-28/25/06.2018 by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, containing a decision of the Supervisory Board No RD-NS-04-46/25.06.2018 on termination of the contract for the award of management concluded between NHIF and Professor Kamen Plotchev. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed support for the proposed procedural rules and agreed on the opinion on the initiation of the selection procedure of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 19th para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. 1. Proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Health within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) documents certifying acquired additional specializations and qualifications; (e) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 19th para. 3, p. 2 of the Health Insurance Act for professional experience in health, banking, insurance or insurance management; (f) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision on the existence and absence of the circumstances under art. 21, para. 1, t. In the case of non-financial corporations, the institution shall report to the competent authority of the Member State where the credit institution is established. (g) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 3 to the Decision. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals under Section I, p. 1 and the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. All data in the documents of the applicants as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Health on the proposed candidates, including issues to be referred to them no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Health matters to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References===External links==*Principles Alexander I "No 1, Health Committee, or by e-mail address: health_committee@parliament.bg. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 are published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within 3 days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be checked for belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Health. 2. The results of the verification under point 1. 1 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of the documents submitted for admission of applicants to a hearing. 1. The Committee on Health shall, within 3 days of the expiry of the period referred to in Section I. 1 sends a list of candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to check citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act, as well as the official establishment of the circumstances under art. 21, para. 1, t. 3 of the Health Insurance Act. 2. The Committee on Health at its meeting shall verify the documents submitted. 3. The Committee on Health may require additional information from both applicants and the competent authority concerned. 4. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. 2. 5. Following the verification, the Health Commission shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published immediately on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates. 1. The Committee on Health shall only hear the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list set out in Section IV. 5. 2. The hearing is public and is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Health. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the proposal for election as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 15 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Health shall present in summary the opinions and questions received by the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the statement for each question and opinion within two minutes. 6. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. Five in an exhibition in ten minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the exhibition for each issue is up to two minutes. 8. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 7 in Exhibition in 10 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Health shall draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund with the content set out in art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 11. Where several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund have been heard, the report referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 a list of candidates who participated in the hearing shall be applied in alphabetical order of their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 12. The report of the Committee on Health on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be made available to the Members of the National Health Insurance Fund no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. VI. Election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly. 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health provides the National Assembly with a report on the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Following the submission of the report under point (c) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3 The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the discussions are concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make speeches and answer the questions raised to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 9. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VII. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section VI, the elected governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 - 11 of the Health Insurance Act according to template according to Annex No 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Annex 1 to Section I, p. 2 point (b) of the decision: Model The delegation of power The undersigned... declare that I agree to be proposed as the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Annex 2 to Section I, p. 2 point (e) of the decision: Model The delegation of power under art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 s 5 of the Health Insurance Act The undersigned... declare that: 1. I have Bulgarian citizenship; 2. I have not been placed under an obstacle; 3. I have not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature or deprived in a corresponding order of the right to hold a materially responsible position; 4. I am not a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund; 5. I am not a husband/wife and I am not in actual cohabitation, I am not a relative in a straight line, I am not related on a BB line to the fourth degree, including, or by matchmaking, to the second degree, including, members of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. I am aware that for declared false data I have criminal liability under art. 313 of the Penal Code. Annex 3 to Section I, p. 2 point (j) of the decision: Model COUNTERPARTY on the basis of art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army The undersigned... declare that I agree to have a prior check to establish belonging to the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Annex 4 to Section VII, p. 1 of the decision: Model The delegation of power under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 - 11 of the Health Insurance Act The undersigned... declare that: 1. I am not a sole trader, unlimited liability partner in a trading company, manager, sales agent, sales representative, prosecutor, trading intermediary, liquidator or trade union, member of a management body or control body of a trading company or cooperative; 2. I am not a member of management or control bodies or a shareholder in a commercial company with the purpose of carrying out voluntary health insurance; 3. I am not a Member of the National Assembly, Minister or Deputy Minister; 4. I am not mayor of the municipality; 5. I do not hold a leadership or control position in a political party; 6. I am not working on a work relationship (except as a teacher at a university). I am aware that for declared false data I have criminal liability under art. 313 of the Penal Code. Annex No 5 to Section VII, p. 2 of the decision: Model The delegation of power under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property The undersigned... declare that by date... there has been a change in the circumstances declared by me in the declaration lodged under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property and the following circumstance has emerged:... I am aware that for declared false data I have criminal liability under art. 313 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u38	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, honourable Members. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u39	Thank you, Madam President. The members of the Health Commission from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will not support the launch of the procedural rules. It is surprising to me that, as I have said, a fellow Member, notoriously known rules that do not change, have been read for almost half an hour in the House of Parliament, and the systemic problem exists. If you review the number of NHIF managers over the last 18 years, they are already so many, over 18, that practically none of them has made more than one year of their term. This exercise we're doing right now, we did it a year ago. In our view, it contains a systemic problem which we carefully and well-intentionally put into the Health Committee yesterday. The Governor of the NHIF cannot effectively influence the policy of the Supervisory Board. There are many more elements that have made the National Health Insurance Fund practically a division of the Ministry of Health, respectively the Ministry of Finance. This problem of changing governors will not be solved. It deepens because of their inability to influence the policy of the Supervisory Board of the Cashier and the Cassate as a whole. We consider and will come up with a legislative initiative to change the entire election mechanism, respectively, to control the Health Insurance Fund. Therefore, I ask the honourable Chamber and colleagues on the right to reconsider. The haste in the selection procedure of a new governor will not solve anything, as the Supervisory Board of the Casa has currently chosen a temporary manager, who has been serving almost half a year as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. With this rush we're doing right now, we're not gonna solve the problem that's a systemic problem. This is shared by other political forces in this House. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u40	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Dr. Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For me it is paradoxical this decision of the BSP group because they just supported the draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions of proposing candidates for members of the Public Supervision Commission. Suddenly they are against this procedure, which is entirely in relation to the legal and regulatory framework in force at the time. With regard to the regulations currently in force, we are obliged, under the Health Insurance Act, within 30 days of the termination of the powers of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund to choose a new one. This law has not changed. Perhaps you have grand intentions of legislative change. Only now we're obliged not to leave the Cashier without a manager. Otherwise, the manager's commitments are clearly regulated again in the same Health Insurance Act. Its powers, of course, are written consecutively. I'm not reading them. I suppose most MPs who are interested in health insurance are familiar with them. They are by no means restrictive. On the contrary, they are sufficient, but the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, besides operatingly managing the Casa, is obliged to comply with its decisions with the Supervisory Board because it is a collective body of management of an independent fund which, by the way, fully repeats the way in which the National Insurance Institute is managed. I respect the intention of my fellow Members to make legislative changes. However, we are now obliged to implement the Law and to elect a new governor within 30 days. I believe that we should discuss here, not the principles of health insurance and the functions of the manager, but whether the rules of procedure that we have proposed to you are fully in line with the regulations in force. I didn't hear any comments in a nasty direction. I therefore implore the Members of the National Assembly to implement the Law, because we are the first to swear that we will carry it out, and anyone who wants to make legislative proposals is welcome. We will discuss them when we see these proposals and they become a fact in the Commission or in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u42	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Daritkova, we supported the Commission's draft decision on public oversight of registered auditors, and we do not support this because the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors has not changed its President 18 times in 17 years. Indeed, you have a 30-day term, but this does not justify the haste of both the haste with the removal of Professor Plotchev, so the extraordinary Commission which took place yesterday to enter all this in the Chamber today. What we are trying to tell you from our parliamentary group, and I hope you understand, is that this period and this next tremor in the system must be used to solve the systematic problem, not just to sweep away with another rule and another choice of originally doomed person, as in less than a year we will most likely change it in the same way. We are trying to warn you that by continuing to cover this problem, soon the time it takes you to read the Rules will be more than the time when your chosen person is working. This is happening right now. What Professor Mihailov told you and we are trying to pay attention to you is that instead of doing another pointless procedure, we should sit down now that the issue is on the table and solve the big issue of the way in which the President of the NHIF is elected and his powers. With regard to the Law, the Law is implemented. And right now, there's a temporary NHIF manager who knows it better than we do, and there are 30 days that are enough to have a serious conversation, not today to close the page that we're going to open, I assure you, in a few months. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u45	Colleagues, you may with any future intentions justify your actions which sabotage the work of the National Assembly. Maybe you can justify that you've made an offer not to take a vacation and then we can discuss the new Cashier. Only we're trying to comply with the Law. It is explicitly written in the Law that within 30 days after the termination of the governor's term of office, we must choose a new governor. Yes, we need to discuss improving the health insurance model in Bulgaria. I advise you to support our draft decision that we have tabled on Friday's debates, because there we have given the Minister until 30 September to present to us a draft for the development of the health insurance model in Bulgaria. I do not think that it is serious to state that within a month of not making any proposals for changing the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, you will come up with such, even more actively to work, we will be able to change the Law so that the mechanisms of management of the National Health Insurance Fund can somehow change. I appeal to the law. I've been reading the rules for a long time because we have to follow them. All procedures must be in accordance with the current regulations, the Constitution and the laws of the country. In this sense, I ask the reasonable people in this House, not the politicizing every question, to support the rules of procedure, to start a selection procedure. If you have a worthy candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and are truly constructive opposition, we are ready to support it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u46	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. We are voting on the Decision which has been read and the five annexes to this decision. They voted 132 MPs: 96, against 6, abstention 30. The proposal is accepted, with which the item on the agenda is accepted. We move to the next item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTER BULSTATE. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to begin with a proposal for a procedure for admission with regard to the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u48	Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting for the Deputy Minister's admission to the Chamber. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the admitted person into the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u49	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 802-01-15, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018, adopted on the first vote on 6 June 2018. The Law on the Register BULSTAT (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u50	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal and the text of the importer for the name of the Law. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u51	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities; 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) at the end of the period, the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be replaced by (b) point (d) shall be created: (d) who are pledges within the meaning of the Special Bets Act; (d) who are pledges within the meaning of the Special Bets Act; (d) 3. In point (a), point (a) is (a) in point (b) at the end of the period, the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be replaced by (b) point (d) shall be created: (d) betholders within the meaning of the Special Bets Act;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 1. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u54	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u55	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 11, para. the following
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u56	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the new § 3 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u57	Paragraph 3 of the Report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, in c. 1 concerning Art. 11, para. 2, p. 1 after the word "Activity" is added to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u58	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We shall vote on the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, as in paragraph 3. 1 concerning Art. 11, para. 2, p. 1 after the word "Activity" is added to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They voted 100 MPs: 100, without objection and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u59	The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 5 and 6: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 5 words................................................................................. 11, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u60	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the proposal to create new paragraphs 5 and 6, as read by the President of the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 102, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u61	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 4 which becomes § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 93, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u63	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8, as in para. 2 the word "against" shall be replaced by "after payment" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u64	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. We vote on the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 8, as in para. 2 the word "against" shall be replaced by "after payment" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" for "a" They voted 96 MPs: 96, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u65	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u66	Are there any other suggestions and speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to amend the title. They voted 92 MPs: 92, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u67	There is a proposal from the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 9. ..................................................... In the Energy Act in art. 36th, para. 3, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 100, para. 3 and/or 5 100, para. 4 and/or 6
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u68	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create § 9. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u69	According to § 6 the text of the importer there is a proposal from the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... This law shall enter into force on 1 September 2018, with the exception of § 9, which shall enter into force on 1 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u70	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the last paragraph of this bill in the version of the Commission for § 6, which becomes § 10. Vote 95 MPs: 95, with no objection and no abstention. The proposal is adopted by which the BULSTAT Registry Bill is adopted. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERVAIL CODE, No 854 01-48. It was introduced by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. There is a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. You're welcome to introduce him, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-48, submitted by Svetlana Angelova Naydenova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 20 June 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-48, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of employers' and trade unions. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. According to the reasons of the Draft Law, the requirements of Convention No 87 of the International Labour Organisation, ratified and promulgated in 1959, which gives rise to the creation of a stand-alone and distinctive establishment, existence and termination, including registration and acquisition of a legal person of trade unions and employers' organisations. The bill proposes that trade union and employers' organisations be registered in a special register of district courts at their headquarters. The procedure of registration before the court concerned should be carried out in accordance with Chapter fifty-five of the Civil Procedure Code, where specific proceedings relating to the registration of legal persons are regulated. The circumstances and data to be entered in the Register of trade unions and employers' organisations shall be determined. In determining the data to be entered in the Register, the specifics of this type of organisation have been taken into account. The Register shall not provide for the registration of the objectives of the organisation because they are defined in art. 4, para. 2 of the Labour Code for trade unions and in art. 5, para. 2 for employers' organisations. There is also no need to enter in the register the means to achieve the objectives because they are defined in labour law. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that according to art. 33, para. 2 of the Labour Code, trade unions and employers' organisations shall freely determine their functions and carry them out in accordance with their statutes and laws. It is also proposed that the divisions of organizations should be entered in the Register in order to have clarity and completeness with regard to the norm of art. 49, para. 2 of the Labour Code, according to which a division of an organisation entered under the preceding subparagraph acquires the quality of a legal person under its statutes. In the event of a change in circumstances and acts entered in the Register of trade unions and employers' organisations to the relevant district court, the entry of changes within one month of the date of their occurrence shall be made, respectively, of their change. The Law provides that the trade unions and employers who entered into force at the date of the entry into force of the Law should retain their legal capacity without having to carry out a new registration. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Industrialists and Employers in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Union for Business Initiative, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy stresses that the creation of an explicit framework in the Labour Code on the Registration and Status of Employers' and Workers' and Workers' Organizations contributes to ensuring constitutionally binding association rights and therefore the Ministry of Labour considers the proposed change appropriate. All employers' and trade unions strongly support the Bill. The importers have applied a partial preliminary impact assessment form to the bill. Section 1 states that employees' organisations differ from other associations of citizens and their objectives and means of achieving them are regulated in labour law. The mixing of registration regimes with other non-profit legal entities is inappropriate. Therefore, the amendments to the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities since 2016 provide for an explicit exclusion from the scope of the trade union and employers' organisations. Also in § 2, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities are explicitly laid down that organisations which aim to carry out political, trade union and religious activities, as well as the Chitalishtes, are governed by a separate law. In this regard, a special law concerning trade unions and employers' organisations is the Labour Code, which should be the overall framework of trade unions and employers' organisations. The explicit exclusion of trade union and employers' organisations from the scope of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, combined with the lack of rules of procedure in the Labour Code, creates a gap in the regulations. This may result in refusals to register new organisations or changes in circumstances to be entered for the organisations already entered in both the district courts and the Registry Agency. In these cases, social dialogue may be hampered and even questioned as to its legitimacy due to the uncertainty of the status of the participants in it. The establishment of a clear regime for registration of trade unions and employers' organisations will lead to greater transparency in the conduct of social dialogue. In this way, constitutional rights of association of employees and employers will be guaranteed, creating a special and detailed framework on their registration and status. Following the presentation of the Bill, the reasons for it and the opinions received from the trade unions and employers' organizations were asked supplementary questions by the MPs Hassan Ademov and Milko Nedyalkov. The answers were given in a correct and legally justified manner by representatives of employers' organisations in which changes of their management bodies have taken place and have already experienced the existing legislative gap. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 854-01-48, submitted by Svetlana Angelova Naydenova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. There is no report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism! Will an importer's opinion be submitted? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed bill aims to establish a single legal system concerning the registration of trade unions and employers' organisations by adopting provisions which take into account the specific and public importance of their activities. The Law proposes that trade unions and employers' organisations should be registered in a special register of district courts at their headquarters. The registration procedure before the court concerned should be carried out in accordance with Chapter 55 of the Civil Procedure Code, where specific proceedings relating to the registration of legal persons are regulated. That register should be separate from the current legal person registers. The amendments to the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities since 2016 provide for an explicit exclusion from the scope of the trade union and employers' organisations. Also in § 2, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Non-Professional Legal Entities are explicitly regulated that the organizations which aim to carry out political, trade union, employers' and activities inherent in religion, as well as the Chitalishtes, are governed by a separate law. In this regard, a special law concerning trade unions and employers' organisations is the Labour Code, which should regulate the overall arrangements of trade unions and employers' organisations. Workers' and employees' organisations are distinguished from other associations of citizens and their objectives and means of achieving them are regulated in labour law. The mixing of registration regimes with other non-profit legal entities is inappropriate. The explicit exclusion of trade union and employers' organisations from the scope of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, combined with the absence of a statute of limitations in the Labour Code, creates a gap in the regulations. This may result in refusals to register new organisations and changes in circumstances to be entered for organisations already entered in both the district courts and the Registry Agency. In these cases, it may be difficult and even questioned about its legitimacy and social dialogue due to the uncertainty of the status of the participants in it. The establishment of a clear regime for registration of trade unions and employers' organisations will lead to greater transparency in the conduct of social dialogue. In this way, constitutional rights of association of workers, employees and employers will be guaranteed, creating a special and detailed framework for their registration and status. The proposed draft implements the requirements of Convention No 87 of the International Labour Organisation, ratified and promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 19 of 1959, which gives rise to the creation of a stand-alone and distinctive establishment, existence, termination, including registration and acquisition of a legal person of trade unions and employers' organisations. It is also proposed that the divisions of organizations should be entered in the Register in order to have clarity and completeness with regard to art. 49, para. 2 of the Labour Code, according to which the shares of an organisation entered under the preceding subparagraph acquire the quality of a legal person according to its statutes. In the event of a change in circumstances and acts which are entered in the register of trade union and employers' organisations at the relevant district court, the entry of changes within one month of the date of their occurrence shall be made, respectively, of their change. The Law provides that trade union and employers' organisations shall retain their legal capacity at the date of the entry into force of the Law without the need for a new registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. This was the opinion of the importer. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! As you have heard from the opinion and from the Report, it is about one omission in the Labour Code, which has emerged as a result of a change in the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities in 2016. In the last year changes have occurred in some of the organizations and they have found themselves unable to enter into a corresponding register of these changes. That is why we examined them in the Social Committee and unanimously adopted the change in the Labour Code. I also hope that we will all achieve this unanimity in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. We proceed to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-48, submitted by Svetlana Angelova Naydenova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the time limit for proposals between first and second reading of the bill for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code should be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there a counterproposal, other ideas for a term? I won't. We vote on Mrs. Angelova's procedural proposal for a three-day period between the first and second reading of the Bill. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u79	My procedure is for admission to the Chamber on item seven of the agenda of Deputy Minister of Defence General Atanas Zaprianov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u80	It's time to rest, it's only right to vote after that, although there's no obstacle to it now. Please vote on the procedure with the agreement that the admission under point 7 will be after the break. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, a break is followed, and then we will continue our work on item seven of the agenda. Message: An exhibition of the artist Ivaylo Petrov will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. The exhibition presents artistic canvases and graphics inspired by Antiquity and the Renaissance. All MPs are, of course, invited to the opening. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u81	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we continue with point eight of the National Assembly's Work Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF A PROGRAMMING AGREEMENT No. 1381 BETWEEN THE FEDERAL MINISTER OF THE RECEIVED AND SPORT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, THE MINISTERY OF THE REST OF THE KINGDOM OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERY OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTER OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF CZECH REPUBLIC, THE MINISTERY OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, THE FEDERAL MINISTERATION OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERATION OF THE NATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF Who's gonna introduce us to the report? General Popov, come in, you have the floor to present the Report of the Defence Committee you led.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the European Defence Agency on Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), No 802-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. supposed for first vote At a regular meeting held on 21 June 2018, the Defence Committee of the Forty-fourth National Assembly examined for first vote the Draft for ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381. 21 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and Colonel Professor Ivan Popivanov, Associate Professor at the Department of Military Medicine. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the Commission on the order of the President of the National Assembly, No 850-01-145/12.06.2018 on the allocation of the Bill between Standing Committees and made a brief summary of the proposed Programme Agreement. A statement of the reasons for the bill on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence. He pointed out that the Programme Agreement on Multi-national Modular Medical Formation (MMMP) is in line with the EU initiative "United and Sharing" and aims to set up a framework for the establishment of an MMMP Programme and to facilitate standardisation and interoperability in the field of multinational medical cooperation. It lays the basis for the creation of permanent and capable of complete resolution medical formations available across the spectrum of EU Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) missions or other multinational commitments. Bulgaria will contribute to the project with one surgical team of five soldiers to participate in a medical surgical module. This surgical team is built through the capacity and existing material base of the Military Medical Academy. The Bulgarian side does not provide for capital expenditure and the expected funds are only for foreign missions of personnel, for participation in the working bodies under the initiative in the international training for integration and validation, and possible participation in subsequent humanitarian missions or operations under the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union. The necessary funds shall be planned and provided under the existing programmes of the Ministry of Defence. The Council of Ministers approved Bulgaria's accession to the MMMP Programme Agreement at its meeting on 18 January 2018. The same was signed by the Bulgarian side on 12 February 2018. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and given that the Agreement contains financial obligations for the State, the Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the Programme Agreement by law. In the subsequent discussion, all the speakers supported the bill. 21 Members of Parliament took part in the vote. With 21 votes for the defence committee proposes the following: STATEMENT: Proposals to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Sweden and the European Defence of the Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), No 802-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. General. The report of the Committee on Health will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Dr. Daritkova. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for the Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), No 802-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. At its regular meeting held on 21 June 2018, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Programme Agreement No. B 1381, between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of Foreign Affairs and the European Defence Agency for the Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), No 802-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient and non-governmental organizations. The Programme Agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as it provides for the emergence of financial obligations. The ratification bill was presented by Colonel Prof. Lyubomir Alexiev, Professor at the Management of the Scientific Center for Military Medical Experts, Air and Maritime Medicine at the Specialized Units of the Military Medical Academy. Professor Alexiev explained that the Programme Agreement on the Multi-national Modular Medical Formation (MMMP) is in line with the EU initiative "United and Sharing" and aims to establish a framework for the establishment of an MMMP Programme and to facilitate standardisation and interoperability in the field of multinational medical cooperation. The Multinational Modular Medical Formation Programme will provide the basis for fully deploying and sustainable multinational medical institutions accessible throughout the spectrum of Common Security and Defence Policy missions or other multinational commitments. Bulgaria will contribute to the project with the participation of one surgical team of five soldiers in the medical surgical module. The surgical team is built through the capacity and existing material base of the Military Medical Academy. The Programme Agreement does not constitute a contract according to the definition of that term in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Contracts. It shall enter into force for the Member States contributing to the MMMP from the date of application of the last signature. It shall not prevent any Member State contributing to the MMMP from declaring that this Programme Agreement will enter into force in respect of it from the date of notification of the completion of the national measures or procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Programme Agreement on the Multinational Modular Medical Formation. The program agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 12 February 2018. After a discussion and a vote was taken on the following results: 15........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u85	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to debate on the proposed Bill for ratification of Programme Agreement No C 1381. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the bill. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. First vote on the Draft for ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), No 802-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal is adopted, and with this the Law of First Voting. General Popov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 I propose that we proceed to a second vote on the Bill for ratification of the Programme Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u87	Thank you, General Popov. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We move on to a second vote on the bill under consideration. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second reading vote. General Popov, would you like to introduce us to the text of the Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U). A single member. Ratiated Programme Agreement No C 1381 between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Swedish Armed Forces and the European Defence Agency for Multinational Modular Medical Formation (M3U), signed on 12 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u89	Thank you, General Popov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the title of the Law and the text of a single article. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the Law was passed at second reading. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, because we have made progress on the agenda of the weekly programme and we are now up to the points providing for the consideration of annual reports which require the presence of members of the management of these institutions, and they are not invited for today, I propose that the viewing of points 8, 9 and 10 take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 9.00. This proposal is subject to voting. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u90	And back to Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u91	And back, in advance, before you know it? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, we strongly object to such a proposal. Given that there is a voted agenda, suddenly the government will decide to change the agenda once again, and given that Mr. Ivanov is here in the Chamber, we believe that these points can be viewed. That the government doesn't want to work, you want to leave early or that you don't have the necessary laws tomorrow, so that we have enough work to fill the day, that's all your problem. [[Heckling]] There's a voted agenda. Please continue to work on the agenda so voted. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u93	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Back proposal by Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor. We're listening for suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand Mr. Stoinev's protest. Perhaps he is dictated by one single thing - he does not want to discuss these items on the agenda, as Mrs Cornelia Ninova is absent again. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have no guarantee that tomorrow Mrs Cornelia Ninova will be present in plenary, just as today she has been invited to take her place in plenary, for which, apropo, she is paid. She checked into the Chamber once in the morning, and last month, she had 90 votes, and she only voted four times...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u95	We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u96	...or 59, and she voted once. For this reason, I believe that your proposal, Mr President, for consideration in tomorrow's plenary session of these reports is adequate, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Ivanov, then Mr. Glauchev, Mr. Popov, if he holds after.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, first, put order in the Chamber, because some are for eviction. [[Shouting from GERB.]] Secondly, lead the meeting as voted on the agenda. The fact that the ruling majority does not have a legislative programme and cannot seal its time is a problem for the ruling majority. To date, at this hour we have a voted programme, there is an agenda and it must be implemented. Just because the chairman of the political party's parliamentary group GERB is not here does not mean that we should not work. So, Mr. Chairman, please continue your work. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u99	Mr. Glauchev, do you want the floor for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You asked for a vote. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, I propose a name check with reading the names before the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u101	The Quaestors, invite the MPs, we are about to name a check. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov - absent Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - absent Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent [[Applause and cheering by GERB.]] Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here [[Heckling]] We'll read it. We continue with this page: Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - absent Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Toma Nikolov Tomov - here [[Heckling]] Don't worry. There's a list that's been dislocated. I'll read it at the end. I'm keeping your attention up. [[Radio.]] Listen to your names and give me an adequate answer. Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent [[Lowered applause and cheers from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent And now to those who haven't heard their names: Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Additional call for presence: Adelen Shevked, Alexander Alexandrov, Albena Naydenova, Valentin Lambrev, Georgi Yordanov, Alexander Ivanov, Valentin Kasabov, Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zhelev, Irena Anastasova, Alexander Sabanov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Yordan Mladenov, Mustafa Karadayi, Ivan Dimov Ivanov, Desislava Gusheva, Alexander Simov, Polina Tsankova and Martin Tinchev. There's a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. We are voting on proposals... [[Noise and lines: No suggestions!]] How can there be no suggestions? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Line by Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.)]] Mr. Stoinev, we have interrupted the upcoming vote to do the roll call check. We find that there is a quorum. A proposal, contrary to what we have done, to postpone the consideration within tomorrow of the next points of the weekly programme. What are the objections? Mr. Popov, what is it? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Excuse me, wait. Is there anything that's not clear? There is a procedure for voting. We ran a name check. There's a proposal that... Excuse me, I repeat, so that everyone is aware of what we are voting on. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please. There is a motion to postpone the points from eighth to tenth within the next day. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, Mr. Stoinev, don't call from the place I did. There was an objectionable suggestion that the Programme should not change and be considered within the framework of today. I shall put to the vote the opposite motion. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Do we have to open a debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u102	Procedure in the manner of conduct! [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u103	Mr. Popov, if it is not clear to you, I think that this is the third time we have repeated to the House what proposals have been made and what we are voting on. I now announce this: a proposal has been received from me. It reads: the viewing of points 8, 9 and 10 of the weekly programme will be held tomorrow, Thursday, at 9.00 hours. I explained the reasons. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u104	In the manner of conduct! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Take your seats. I'll ask the Quaestors to cooperate. I can't answer everyone. In voting mode, we are voting on the motion to postpone the examination of the points. Mr. Stoynev, vote. You have this opportunity. Everyone in the Chamber is doing this right now. Vote 169 MPs: 101, against 58, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Points 8, 9 and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u105	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u106	Come in, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-vote because you have done a roll call check to find that there is a quorum in this House, that there are MPs who want to work, and at the same time, without saying on what basis, you are canceling the points to be seen! I do not understand: in this desire of the MPs to work they are all here, you cancel the points, provided for tomorrow there is a t. 1, t. Two, a hearing, and you put other points! What's the reason? Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u108	Quiet, please. We're going to re-vote on Mr. Svilensky's proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 171 MPs: 101, against 61, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Negative vote by Mr. Popov. Here you go. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I voted against the proposal because in this National Assembly... Yes, you're in a hurry to leave, apparently yesterday you were reworked in the couloirs of parliament, now you're going back to vacation. This National Assembly presents a dangerous trend, honourable MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u110	Mr. Popov, what do you have to tell us by the procedure? Excuse me, this is procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u111	There is no negative vote procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u112	All right, Mr. Chairman. Then my procedure is the way it is. You have accepted this vote because there has been a procedural proposal, but as President of the National Assembly you should now defend the authority, the image of Parliament. And you should have paid attention to the Members of the National Assembly, in the case of yourself, how the authority of the National Assembly defends itself when this trend, which outlines the inability of the government to draw up an agenda even for two days, is confirmed today! Either drafts will be put on the agenda on Friday, without necessity, exceptional cases, or the National Assembly's Programme will be completely changed. When drawing up the Programme you have not foreseen that in practice tomorrow the National Assembly will not be able to work because there will be no items on the agenda! You have so much vision for the establishment of the National Assembly not to work. These are the real motives, so you made such a proposal that these points go to tomorrow. Otherwise the program would have been exhausted and tomorrow the parliament would have nothing to do. This is this terrifying, incarnating, vivid inability of the government to outline the National Assembly's Programme even for two days! You should have, as chairman, taken this into account and made such a proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Popov. However, there was a vote that I cannot oppose.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u114	Didn't we call it off?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u115	Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I strongly object to the presentation of the so-called negative votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u117	That wasn't a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u118	In the manner of conduct you are not entitled to comment after a vote, which is on a point of order! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] See art. 60, para. Five! I would like to highlight this. The President and the President have rightly made the proposal, based on the fact that the next three reports require the legal representatives of three institutions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u119	Mr. Kirilov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u120	And because it will take enough plenary time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u121	Mr. Kirilov, please. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u122	Get Cornelia to come work!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-27.u123	Quiet and order, please! Dear Members of Parliament, we have exhausted our agenda in view of the decision which has just been adopted to postpone the examination of three points of the weekly programme within tomorrow. The next plenary session is tomorrow, 28 June 2018, at 9.00, when representatives of the institutions will be invited, which justified the interruption of today's meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
