ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to be included in our weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: termination of the powers of the People's Representative of the People's Republic of Parliament Dimitar Gamishev on 28 March 2018, and I propose to make the first point for today's meeting, and the previous paragraph the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on lending to students and doctoral students with importer Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2018, to become the second item for today's meeting. Please vote. They voted 163 MPs: 152, against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Let's start with the first point for today: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Colleagues, an application has been made by the National Representative Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev, Member of the National Assembly from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the 44th National Assembly. I wish to terminate my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Respectfully, Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev. We have an employee. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev as MP from the First Election Region. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly, which I have just read. Vote 152 MPs: 139 against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING OF THE COUNTERPARTY LEGISLATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CREDITS OF STUDENTS AND DOCTORANTS. The first report belongs to the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting of Students and Doctoral Students, No 854-01-3, submitted by Lalo Georgiev Kirilov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2018. At its regular meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on lending to students and PhD students, No 854-01-3, submitted by Lalo Georgiev Kirilov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Sonya Krustanova, Director of the Department of Finance and Education at the Ministry of Education and Science, Ms. Ekaterina Miteva, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Irina Martseva, Secretary General of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Mr. Lalo Kirilov. He noted that the proposals made aimed at facilitating the use of credits by students and PhD students. It is offered the right to apply for credit under this law to have not only students in regular form of education, but also students in the background, evening and remote form, as well as loans over 50 thousand. lv. to be granted only by a guarantor. In addition, the Bill proposes a reduction in the interest that the borrower owes to the bank from 7 percentage points to 3,5. Regarding the draft in the Commission, opinions have been received from the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, and all three opinions do not support the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students. The Minister of Education and Science presented his opinion and clarified that the Programme for Crediting Students and Doctoral Students needs adjustments and the Ministry conducts a discussion with interested parties in this direction. He explained that student lending covers only students in regular form, because unlike students in a thorough or remote form of training, they do not have an objective opportunity to receive employment benefits due to their full-time engagement in higher schools. The possible expansion of the circle of students with the right to apply for loans under this law would lead to the need to provide additional financial resources from the state budget to guarantee the loans granted. Regarding the proposal to reduce the interest rate, the Minister noted that in the current law the interest was set as a maximum amount and is consistent with the price and the temporaryity of the resource and the interest rate. It is not clear how it is established that the lower interest offered corresponds to these elements and whether this interest rate will motivate banks to offer student loans. He explained that in many countries student lending is a major form of support for access to higher education, and in Bulgaria is rather an additional instrument, as the main form of support is the subsidy for maintenance of training. About the loan offer over 50,000. lv. to be granted only with a guarantor Minister Valchev noted that access to credit should not depend on the property or financial status of the lender and such limitation can be introduced, but should not be linked to the guarantors. In principle, it can be discussed whether there should be a maximum value of credit given that there are actually the highest use of foreign students from these ranges in medical professional fields, where there is also the highest percentage of bad loans. Overall, there is no high percentage of bad loans under the Programme at present, and the amount of loans itself is relatively low even against the background of future incomes by students, because the fees in most professional directions and in most higher schools are relatively low. The opinion of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria was presented by Mrs. Irina Martseva. She noted that the proposal to include a warranty was not acceptable because it would change the overall scheme of student loans and the idea of the Law on State Financial Support and Guarantee for the Crediting of Students and Doctoral Students. Regarding the proposal to reduce the maximum interest rate, she stressed that it was inappropriate given the cost of the bank's resources and the risks covered over a long-term period. She stressed, in case the scheme becomes too risky and unacceptable, it will not be used and the banks will not provide resources for student lending. Discussions in the direction of a reduction of the interest rate on student loans could only be conducted if other parameters under the credit scheme were changed. The discussion included MPs Sergey Kichikov, Stoyan Mirchev, Milen Mihov, Milena Damyanova, Stanislav Stanilov and Anelia Klisarova. Mr. Sergey Kichikov asked the drafter whether he could provide information on the amount of interest rates for this type of lending in the other countries in the European Union. Mr. Lalo Kirilov replied that after an analysis it was found that the highest interest rate is up to 5% and is in Estonia, in England the interest rate is from 1% to 3%, in the Netherlands is less than 1% and in France there is no interest rate. Mr. Stanislav Stanilov expressed his opinion that the financing of higher education should be differentiated and the proposals made in the Bill are fair, but it is necessary to be well-founded in a discussion with all stakeholders in order to find a balanced solution. Mr. Milen Mihov also expressed an opinion in the direction of seeking a solution corresponding to the interests of all countries in order to support students and PhD students. Ms. Milena Damyanova also noted that a debate on student lending is needed, that the Law needs a change, but one that really helps students, not changes that will block the system. Mr. Stoyan Mirchev and Mrs. Anelia Klisarova expressed their views in support of the proposals made, considering them timely, up-to-date and in accordance with the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education. It was stressed that the amendments made and additions to the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students aim at better conditions for students, and the rate of interest can be specified and justified in the second discussion of the Law. The discussion was assessed by the Minister of Education and Science as useful and he made a commitment the Ministry to finalise the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students, the discussion on which is being held and with the participation of students for more than a year. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with a result of 8 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Who's gonna introduce him? Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting of Students and Doctoral Students, No 854-01-3, submitted by Lalo Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 26 January 2018. At a meeting held on 15 March 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Petar Nikolov. The bill was presented by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov, who pointed out the following changes: - a reduction of the maximum interest rate for these loans from 7 per cent to 3,5 per cent; - expand the scope of the Law.. also the involvement of students-suppliers in the persons benefiting from the right of these loans; - loans over 50,000. lv. to be awarded with guarantors of Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Kirilov explained that the loans granted for the most part are for fees and a minimum percentage used credit for maintenance. The outstanding loans for the period 2010 - 2015 were 807 thousand. lv. The following opinions were expressed during the discussion. Deputy Minister Nikolov expressed his lack of support for the reason that the purpose of granting these lower interest credits is to help those students who do not work for their education. The extension of the scope will distort the Law and would also lead to the need to provide additional financial resources from the state budget, which is not justified so far. Lending over 50 grand. lv. with guarantors would create obstacles to many students who would not be able to secure the warrants in question and would practically be discriminated against and put at a disadvantage. The proposal that bank interest, which currently does not exceed 7%, will become 3.5 per cent, is unacceptable on the grounds that higher interest gives a greater opportunity for banks to have an interest in the Loan Programme, offer more flexible conditions and compete with each other. These motives were supported by the majority of the Commissioners. In response to questions regarding practice in other European countries, Mr. Lalo Kirilov pointed out the following information. In the ten countries that offer such credit, only in the Netherlands are not offered for proffers. Everywhere else, including England, Germany until 2014 because since 2015 education is free of charge, Spain, Greece, Sweden, the Czech Republic, France, Finland also offer such credits for teachers. The interest rates are regulated and vary within 1% to 3% except Estonia, where the interest rate is 5%. President Menda Stoyanova explained that the Ministry of Education has established a working group that works towards optimizing the lending of students and PhD students, as well as on many other problems related to higher education and which is about to propose changes to the relevant regulations. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on lending to students and PhD students, No 854-01-3, submitted by Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I open the debates on the presented bill. You have the floor to speak. Who's gonna present the motive? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The law adopted in 2008 on student and PhD loans proved that one of the important tools for achieving a better balance and higher level of complicity in the financing of higher education was by sharing financial responsibility between the state and the learners. This gives an additional opportunity to increase the education of young people who are unable to provide themselves with the necessary funds related to payment of the fees due and maintenance during their training. At the same time, the credit system for students and PhD students contributes to increasing the number of graduates of young people, ensuring sustainability of the principle of access to higher education of persons regardless of their social status. The analysis of the data shows that only during the period 2010-2015. 17 928 young people took advantage of the opportunities granted by the Law by obtaining loans amounting to 114,631 million. lv. In addition to these entirely positive trends, there are also those which restrict the scope of the Law, as is the case with the form of training referred to in para. 1, t. 2 of art. 3. The crediting of a regular form of training only puts young people in a disadvantage position, preferred an incomplete, evening or remote form of training, according to art. 42, para. 10 of the Law on Higher Education. This is evident, especially in the case of background training, which is the preferred form for many students who do not have enough funds and in many cases have to receive additional income from employment contracts. The study of the issue of student lending indicates that all banks providing these services offer the maximum permissible, according to art. 20 of the Law, interest rate To date, this percentage has not been changed despite the changes in financial and economic conditions during the period. In addition, in most countries of the European Union, the interest rate for such types of student lending is significantly lower or not even provided for. The positive effect of a possible decrease in the interest rate will be in two directions. The risk to banks will be minimal, as loans to students and PhD students are guaranteed by the state. At the same time, favourable conditions will be created to achieve the objectives set in the field of higher education and an optimal balance will be ensured between the rights and interests of providers and recipients of credit under the Law. In the light of the foregoing, it is appropriate to remove the text in art. 3, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 26, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law limiting the form of training and reducing the interest referred to in art. 20, para. 1 s from 7% to 3.5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! With the proposed Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students, we do not aim to create egalitarian conditions for students in higher education institutions, but let us not pretend and pretend that we do not notice how it affects the young deepening inequality in our society. I'm addressing you, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Tsvetanov! It is most vividly illustrated by what is happening to young people and especially those who pay with deprivation to educate themselves. They start as students with enthusiasm and hope, and they face anxiety and fear. Therefore, I call on you: to face the fear of young people! It is in our hands whether we will leave a companion of the future to worry, worry, ignorance, fear, or show that we are a society that gives more opportunities, and in which the power of democracy is expressed in the understanding that the necessary conditions for the formation of the worldview of the young and intellectual growth of the nation depend on them! Time is awake, but are we awake? Are our eyes wide open to see students' problems? Are we going to start solving these problems, or are we going to leave them in the swamp? The fight against the demographic crisis must start by creating conditions, firstly, that young people can learn and qualify according to their wishes here in Bulgaria. Do we understand that they are mostly affected by the disease of Bulgaria "poverty"? The state must ensure that this does not prevent them from studying and therefore is the proposal for guaranteed low interest rates if necessary for loans. Dear colleagues, the past separates us! But if we think about the future, we can all be together. Let's throw a stone together in the swamp of reality, let's create conditions for the young and then be demanding of them. Support for amendments to the Law is small, but now it is an extremely necessary investment in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there a line to Mr. Iankov? A statement? [[Heckling]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The amendments to the current bill amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students allow for investment in education, and any investment in education is always more than justified. Educated and qualified, demanding and able are always the engine of progress. Their presence in society is a sign of success and economic progress. Dozens are examples not only in our country, but also worldwide. Every success is the result of education, and it is the result of national priority of different countries. Unfortunately, the realities in recent years have turned education into a challenge. More and more families live below the threshold of poverty, more and more young Bulgarians have to put their domestic problems before their education. Financial difficulties are a problem for effective and quality education and participation in the learning process. This leads to the fictitious studentship in Bulgaria, the lack of motivation and the vision of young people for successful realization. Improving access to education will solve problems with difficult reconciliation of work and studentship. Unfortunately, we know that 70% of the students in our country work and study simultaneously "Whether the student is a regular or a regular form of training, it has to work. If students in Bulgaria want to work on their specialty, they should hold a professional internship, which often does not count as insurance and is also not paid. With the help of woe, with the help of enthusiasm the young and ambitious Bulgarians in Bulgaria are realized, but will this be so for the next generations? In order not to rely on this and ensure a decent existence and professional realization of young people in Bulgaria, please support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We are discussing a very simple Bill, which consists of four lines. Since we usually discuss complex bills where the truth is lost, different opinions can be expressed there in different directions and often the findings are controversial on both sides. Today we are discussing a bill that proposes to halve bank interest on student loans to 50 thousand. lv. And over 50,000. lv. with warrants. There's nothing complicated about that. The question is: does the National Assembly want, and in this case, the majority, to give the Bulgarian underprivileged students the opportunity to study in Bulgarian universities, or does it want to leave them semi-educated, to wonder in which direction of the world to go? That's what this is about. As I understand it, the attitudes in this direction are not promising, and they cannot be promising because of the philosophy of the Bulgarian institutions, which are engaged in education at all. I will focus on the reasons he expressed in his report Deputy Minister Nikolov to the Commission. Now listen carefully: if this can be Deputy Minister of Bulgarian Education, then for me what he has said to the Commission is worthy to ask him immediately to resign from the Prime Minister and to seek another Deputy Minister of Education. Listen to what this titan defender of Bulgarian education says: The granting of loans over 50 thousand. lv. with guarantors will create obstacles to many candidate students who will not be able to secure the guarantors in question. Dear Minister, can you call this Deputy Minister to give you any explanation as to who is that bank that is interested in whether its client and candidate receive credit will secure the guarantors, or is this a question of the one who applies? I don't even think there's any financial logic here. This is not about a person who is Deputy Minister of Education, but means that this person has either not appeared before a bank or is malicious, or fictional arguments have been sought to write this report to the Commission. Take a look, please! This goes against all the good things you've been telling lately in your numerous TV interviews that will be the subject of separate parliamentary questions. [[Heckling]] To appease you, they didn't go unnoticed! Even further, even more interestingly, the Deputy Minister says that the proposal is unacceptable because of the reason that the higher interest rate gives banks a greater opportunity to have an interest in the Loan Programme. I'm sorry, but is this guy, with an excuse for expressing himself in his right mind?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u14	He cares about banks, he doesn't care about students. He doesn't care to drop the interest rate. What is the interest of the borrower, in this case the student or anyone: to receive a lower percentage of the bank. And you, as the Ministry of Education, in this case you explain that the interest of the bank must be protected in order to have an interest in the Loan Programme. [[Noise and lines.]] This is madness, Minister! Is this the position of the Ministry?! This is insane! Please come out and explain to us what your deputy minister is trying to say. Do you not accept the proposals for this bill with these motives? If so, be honest, go out to the Bulgarian society and say: "We, as the Ministry of Education, are interested in the banks to receive higher interest rates when they give loans to the students. " - See who will understand you then. Who's gonna understand?! Make some other arguments. Call this guy, tell him something else to write, you got a bunch of literate clerks. These can't be arguments to reject such a bill. This is nonsense, with an excuse for the expression. Dear colleagues, by writing these reports to the committees, try to somehow cover up the helplessness of the executive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Any lines to Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I am proposing under art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to invite the Prime Minister to inform us about the development of the situation with the diplomatic crisis between the European Union and Russia. We would like to know what are the reasons for the steps taken so far. To make an effort to have greater coherence in the actions of the institutions in this crisis, which is obviously expanding and can have serious consequences for global international relations and, in particular, for Bulgaria. In such a situation, it is very important to ensure this interaction. We have seen that there has not been such with the President, but we believe that the MPs should be informed. At your discretion, this sitting may also be closed. We are particularly concerned about what the next steps would be on the basis of the information that the Prime Minister has, because yesterday possible further actions have been identified that are already going beyond this, we would call it a relatively moderate step against the background of what is happening in a number of other European countries. I suggest that we do not act again on the principle of keeping the Prime Minister hidden, because the situation is serious enough and we are making this proposal not to make political propaganda out of it, but to give a chance to be really informed and to coordinate our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Mr Vigenin, the Prime Minister will be informed of your proposal. At the moment, the procedure is irrelevant to what is happening, that is, your proposal is irrelevant to what is happening and the issues being discussed at the moment, nor to the order of development of the meeting. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's keep going. Statements? Docent Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! This law does raise an important issue to which I think there is agreement that it is necessary to approach extremely authoritative, serious and responsible. The law, as it is now acting, regulates a fixed interest rate which obliges the bank, the institution that must carry out this lending, to respect it regardless of the economic conditions, regardless of the development of the banking credit market. At the time this interest rate was, we can say conditionally, below the market rate of consumer loans and other types of loans. It is obvious that by putting this issue today, the economic conditions have changed, the conditions of the banking market and credit are changed. If we accept the offer of importers, we will fix an interest rate that may be fair at the time, perhaps acting normally, or may have other consequences. We are saying that this interest rate might not be viable for banks and that they will actually stop lending or limit this lending. It is difficult to predict, at a foreseeable time, a short-term or medium-term, how economic conditions will change and how banks' policies on this type of credit will change. But the change we are going to make will work and can actually reduce the activity of student lending banks or, in fact, even stop student lending. I think such consequences will be disadvantageous, above all, for students, for consumers. That is why we must approach the problem with extreme caution, professionalism and look for another option, another approach. In the debate in the Committee on Education and Science, these issues were discussed. We do not give up debating and looking for a solution to the problem, but it must find a balance between the private interest of the banks that are leading them and the public interest that dictates that we guarantee us bearable, easy and state- guaranteed credits for students who have to solve their problems. That is why we believe that this approach, a fixed, firm interest rate, should be changed in the Law. We have received the assurance of the Ministry of Education and Science that it is preparing or considering another amendment of the Law, which will give sustainability to the functioning of the loans and guarantee both the interests of all countries and a long-term sustainability of student lending. That's why we're holding back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u19	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister! Mr. Mihov, you here vote and reduce the percentage, and the job of the banks and their managing bodies is to assess what part of the investment resource they will allocate for this job. I was trying to distinguish between the responsibility of the individual institutions, that the Ministry of Education should not think what the bank will decide and try to make financial forecasts, because you know, in Bulgaria in every pub will tell you that things are not working because everyone is dealing with what is not his business. The Ministry of Education does not deal with financial forecasts. It creates favorable conditions for Bulgarian young people who study secondary or higher education. The National Assembly, which should reflect the public interest in the case, and the public interest requires the Bulgarian youth to study here, not in Rotterdam, Amsterdam, London or elsewhere, requires that we create favourable financial conditions here, not to think about what the banks will do. The World Bank in Sofia is engaged in financial analysis as a high authority on Bulgarian finances, so it is your job to support our proposal because it corresponds to the interests of Bulgarian youth. If you don't want to support it, go out and say: "We will not support it because you are importing it. " - Or: "We will not support it, because that Mr. Nikolov in the Ministry, who told all these fictional works, is very sympathetic to us and we support it. What are all these fairy tales and false concerns about demographic policy, about Bulgarian education, about expenditure and so on and so forth this is a fake job. Go out there and say: "Yes, we will reduce them if they want to give out the banks. " There are a thousand and one mechanism for the financial institutions to be stimulated, not obliged, to give out precisely these loans because they can be tied to other packages and so on. Show, how can I say, a little intellectual effort in this direction, and not say: "We will immediately abstain. " - Well, refrain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u21	Time. Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u22	You've been holding back for 30 years. The universities are empty, the fees are uploaded, the students are studying abroad. [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u24	Please don't call from a place, there's a platform for this job. Thanks for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Another line? I won't. Here's your coat, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u26	Mr. Zhablyanov, abstinence has many aspects from sobriety to abstinence in gender relations. I assure you, we have not abstained for 30 years in both respects. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u27	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u28	You know, you know. I would like to disagree with you that the work of the United Patriarchs is to vote on the assumption that BSP is importing. As far as your thesis is concerned, vote, and whatever happens next and the banks think, I cannot agree with you at all, because if we make a wrong legislative decision and block student lending [[Replications by National Representative Valeri Zablyanov]] ... When IMRO talks, BSP should listen carefully to what we say. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is respect for historical organizations with over a hundred years of history. [[Replications from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] By content, Mr. Zablyanov, by content.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u29	Mr. Zablyanov, please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u30	I will say: if we make legislative decisions without thinking about their consequences, I think we will set a very bad example. It's bad politics and bad governance. You did not answer the question: if the decision we make is contrary to the interests of the banks, how will they continue to finance student loans? Who will oblige a private bank to provide unfavorable loans?! Is this blocking the loan? It's blocking the loan. Is this in the interest of the students, no, it is not in the interest. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u31	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Professor Klisarova, you had made a statement. Please wait, Professor Klisarova, there is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let's calm down the passions in the hall. The little Catholic community in Bulgaria from today celebrates its Passover. We Catholics, in our homeland, are bearers of an absolute covenant, bequeathed to us by our ancestors, brought Europe to Bulgaria and Bulgaria to Europe, even when it was missing on the geographic maps with which the genius Raphael wrote the Vatican palaces. It was as if the light was still shining and inspiring that flame of fire that ignited the hearts of the bishops Peter Parchevich and Peter Bogdan Bakshev, who reminded the world that there was a heroic people thirsting for their sacred freedom, daring to lead their little congregation to pour blood, which would garish immeasurably and gloriously that magnificent Chiprovska epic from which they were 350 years old! Unforgettable to our historical memory are the number of Catholic hospitals, schools and colleges that form the spiritual, intellectual and humane intelligence of the nation in the years of Liberation. The testimony of our blessed martyrs, who in the near past, persecuted and repressed, along with the other Orthodox Christian brothers and sisters, sacrificed their lives for the faith in Christ. And nowadays, Bulgarian Catholics living in peace with everyone generously donate their proverbial hard work, forces, spirituality and love for the progress of the motherland. Today we triumph in Christ's Passover. The passage of the Savior through suffering and death, triumphantly and irretrievably from life to the Resurrection. May this enthusiastic joy brighten and change us all, and may with God's help, as soon as possible, overcome calendar discrepancies and human conflicts, sing together the victory of humanity and good over darkness, falseness and fear! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. You have the floor, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I would like to return the debate and say that this is the first reading of the Law. From the reports and from the debates in the Committee on Education and Science, absolutely everyone agreed that the 2008 Law needs changes. I think we all agree that these changes should benefit young people and students. I won't make any more arguments. Today, I heard the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. I learned from him that there is also a working group that offers, develops what these changes should be, because this law, in force since 2010, does not meet the current conditions and does not motivate students to take credit. Since we all unanimously say: there is a need for change, we must protect young people, we must give them access to higher education. This is in the Strategy for the Development of Young People and Higher Education. We had to guarantee nearly 40%, I think it was, it is noted in our National Strategy. Why, then, can't this law be supported? That's because it was imported by the opposition? If there are adjustments, they will be made between first and second readings. Why shouldn't interrogators join this group? Because they're working? They work because they can't support themselves. Although they work, teachers can have special and other conditions other than those that are for regular training. We should not make sure that these people cannot go to higher education, get their qualifications and realization because they cannot finance their education. I suggest, let's all think about it, let's support this bill and between first and second readings, if adjustments are required, they will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u35	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The law on student and PhD loans was adopted in 2008 and practically two attempts were made to change it during this period. I agree that the legal base should be updated, but this should be done carefully and with a much wider public debate. It must step on sound economic logic and harmonise with the entire financial macroeconomic framework in which the country is developing. To date, there is no high percentage of bad loans under the Programme, i.e. the system is functioning smoothly. The amount of loans requested and received is low even against the background of future incomes that students will receive because the fees in most professional directions and in most higher schools are low. Why, then, should this be changed with rapid and drastic steps, such as a reduction in the interest rate and such a change be made to this law? It's an excess tremor in the financial system. Secondly, we are already registering the biggest problem in bad loans among foreign students in medical fields. These are the most expensive specialties, but there are also the highest number of foreign students registered there. In other words, the change would benefit not the Bulgarian students, but the foreign students, in the most expensive specialties. A new change would only deepen such inequality. In my opinion, the debate should go in the direction of improving the conditions of student lending, which should primarily affect Bulgarian students and the priority specialties, as well as improving the package of educational services. The general problem is that many young Bulgarians prefer to study abroad not because of the price of credits there, but because of the quality of education services. Next, I would draw attention to the fact that the current interest rate was adopted when the base interest rate was higher and then the credit price was relieved. It is right to ask ourselves, does the drastic reduction in the interest rate of this type of credit by 50% correspond to the actual reduction in the interest rate for the period? Is that so, or are we simply offering a populist drastic reduction without taking into account the real situation on the credit market in the country? Such loans are relatively small in size, but with higher administrative costs, while in the commonly accepted market case contracts become much more profitable. It is possible that a large part of the banks will withdraw from student lending schemes and thus limit its opportunities rather than expand. The current regulatory base guarantees a stable interest rate even in the context of a deteriorated, consumer-based, credit market. This is the most important achievement of the current legislation. Therefore, I believe that a change of such order will mark the otherwise very good idea and will change the whole spirit of the so-called law. This type of change represents the request of the left to set a threshold for loans above 50 thousand. lv. be granted only by a guarantor. The setting of this border marks a mark on the meaning of the entire law, and I do not believe that it should be updated with a similar text. Such an offer is contrary to art. 19th para. 1 of the Law and does not correspond to the financial logic of student and doctoral lending in general as it is based on state guarantees. Therefore, we would rather insist on diversifying the forms of lending and extending the portfolio of services aimed at students and doctoral students to try to attract more banking institutions into this good idea, rather than creating pre-limiting conditions for a major banking product. Last but not least, I would pay attention to the request to extend the group of students and PhD students with access to student loans, including background and other forms of training. This, in my opinion, is a controversial attempt to create artificial equality. If such levelling happens, then the largest group, namely students from regular training, will be affected and discriminated against. These are those who are busy full - time in their education and training and have no opportunity for alternative incomes, unlike other forms of training. It is they who will be most affected, and negatively, by such a change. The development of education in the modern world allows various forms of training, including remote, with the use of high technology. The possibility of a person learning even on the Internet and receiving a diploma from a school abroad does not make him a student in the real sense of the word. Does this mean that now that we change the Law with these four paragraphs, as the BSP wants, we will provide student loans to all those who have temporary relations with a higher school? On the contrary, with such a change, we would limit the possibility of lending people who are actually less likely to receive income during their training. After all, we risk not only regular students and PhD students facing reduced lending opportunities, but also the credit institutions themselves limiting their participation in this noble undertaking, which affects much of the Bulgarian society. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! The statement read was a report by the banks. We're discussing student loans right now, aren't we? I will quote some of the phrases that were used in the report in question: The main lead in lending student loans is sound economic logic. Well, excuse me, the bank's sound economic logic requires that it give such an interest rate, which balances the demand for loans and the supply of the service in question, so that the bank can be profitable and has a low portfolio of bad loans. That's what every banker does when he sits down and looks at his fat papers. What do you suggest? To maintain economic logic, but this economic logic requires no such bill at all. Do you understand what you're reading? Such a bill is against economic logic because it sets a non-market rate. The market rate is the result of economic logic. The percentage we offer is an unmarket rate, so it cannot be linked to economic logic. It's not economically logical. From the point of view of the policy of the Bulgarian higher education, it is like a development strategy which takes into account other interests besides the interests of the management board of the bank. If you don't understand this, we don't have to discuss anything. You say the system is functioning smoothly. How will it function smoothly? Do you remember five years ago what was the volume of bad loans in the banks? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Do you know why he had it? Because the money instead of giving it to education, they gave it to concrete, iron and excavations in Sofia, which are still standing. [[The President signaled again that time had run out.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u40	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you contradict each other. From the very beginning of your speech, you are beginning to say that much of the credits that are being used are from foreign students and they are taking over 40,000. lv. loans. In the next part of your statement, you say that we are doing some discrimination by placing guarantors for loans over 50 thousand. lv. You don't think it came from somewhere... That's why we're putting it like this...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u41	It doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u42	She said it doesn't make sense. Listen or read what you've written! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u43	Mr. Kirilov, you stick to the essence of your line. Don't mind me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u44	Yeah. And the speech of the speaker. I don't see your logic at first saying that we make discrimination by putting a limit on loans that are without a guarantor, and then saying that most of the problems are with foreign students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. And the third line, Mr. Ermenkov, please. [[(Noise, lines, applause and cheering by GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u46	Was that an ovation? What was that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u47	I think you've been welcomed with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for making it clear that I'm being welcomed here. I'm glad. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for this speech. You expressed that fundamental difference between how we approach the state and how you approach the state. We approach socially, try to find help for those who cannot be as rich as the minority in Bulgaria, so that they can have equal rights with them, you approach liberally and think that the economy and revenues are more important than social policy. So thank you, and people in the future in the elections make a difference whether they prefer liberal or social! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u50	Mr. Kirilov, in connection with your speech on the occasion of setting such a limit of 50 thousand. BGN, which will be granted only with a guarantor, I would like to point out to you that it contradicts the text of the same law. You didn't really read the Law a little further down. Article 19, para. 1 of the Law expressly provides that banks are not entitled to require or receive any collateral from borrowers or from third parties and according to art. 19th para. 3: The settlements in breach referred to in the provision shall be null and void. With this paragraph, with this your proposal you contradict other texts in the same law. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u52	What about the third statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! First of all, I will speak as a person who has used such credit because I do not know what part of those who have signed or who have worked on the texts have at all used student loans and whether they are familiar with all the problems in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u54	They were students a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u55	It's possible one of her colleagues is right now, and I'm going to turn to them as someone who's been using one. My credit began at the beginning of 2011, and I do not know if you have encountered what problems are faced by those who receive student loans? Right now, if memory serves, I think only three banking institutions offer student loans... [[Noise and lines.]] Five already, okay, once there were three. Then two different branches of the same bank told me two different things. One branch didn't approve of me for credit, the other one approved me to tell you. That's one by one. The other one. To use student credit then, the economic situation of the state was as follows. Consumer credit was far more expensive than student credit. The lawmaker, when he was preparing the Law then, introduced a rule that student lending was not limited or not fixed to 7%. It is limited but not more than 7%. I mean, it could be less. The question is, did those who wrote the texts turn to the banks and ask them: well, why do you not maintain lower interest rates? Because the market principle and logic in general are aimed at banks for two very simple reasons. To have student loans, you have to have someone to offer it. That's the first one. Those who offer it, who provide it, these are the banks. The one who is a creditor of last resort for the non-economicists may say nothing, but the creditor of last resort is the state. This is a specific case with us in which the State is such a creditor. That's why I can't agree to a few basic things. Maybe that's where my understanding of what higher education should be. For me, higher education is not just going to university and then going home and saying: "Hey, I have a degree from the university, look how beautiful I am! For me, higher education is a way of thinking. It is a place where you will acquire knowledge and skills that will then help you develop your life. From now on, I only agree with one statement by colleagues, and this is the possible problem that arises when lending higher amounts that the state guarantees. Because there could be a problem for the state. But on this loan, we have talked about it specifically with colleagues, and I think the Ministry has also commented on it, there is a working group that needs to resolve the issue cardinally. It will not happen: vote it at first reading, and then between first and second we will smear it somehow and we will do something intermediate. This thing is going to happen based on a serious analysis. That's why I started asking if you asked the banks and if you had the serious analysis you prepared. It's great you didn't ask them, but they're the ones offering it. It won't be offered by individuals, it won't be offered by companies, legal entities who...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u56	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u57	They're not particularly oriented about it. Some of you, however, have bothered to look outside. That's very nice. But it is also nice to know what prices and conditions for education are outside. When, in 2014, I made an inquiry to London Scul of Economy to ask them for a master's degree and how much my semester fee would be, they replied to me that the annual fee for them was 35 thousand. Pounds. A very different annual fee, which is for example in Bulgaria, and quite different from my semester fee at the UNWE, where it was 900 BGN. We must still take account of these realities. There's no way we can do this just because of PR itself. If you're doing it for the PR, you're doing it anyway, it's clear that that's why you're doing it, you're gonna start saying it. Or are we doing this to have some real effect? So I turned around and at first I asked you: how many of you have experienced it because I have experienced it? Or we do it to have a real effect and something that actually stays behind us because yes, there are problems in education, yes, there is a problem with the footage, yes, the business said it. But is this the solution, and is this the way it is? Or we'll gather in this room every time to make some proposals, then we'll go to election campaigns to say, "These are bad, we're the good guys," and then there'll be nothing real, and nothing that practically works. Therefore, I believe that when preparing working groups, we will not still ignore you. We will not say: "No, you are Satans, do not come to them. " - Come, work with us to draw good functional texts. Because the question will eventually go back to the students, to this functionality. That's it, thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to extend the group's time. That's a short line, mate. You asked us if we asked the banks. I don't know if we asked them, but obviously you asked them. And that's what you said in all your speeches. Because you represent the banks here, not the students, not the young people of Bulgaria. [[Replications, noise, single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ask them, you'll ask them again in the task force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there another line? Mr. Alexandrov, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov, no, I didn't ask the banks, this is the work of the one who prepared the legislative act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u62	You said you asked them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u63	When I've filed my credit application, I can tell you about it then. There's a very simple logic in the whole process. This is still proof that in universities knowledge and skills should overlap. Logic is as follows: you have a form of lending, this form of lending is provided through banks. It is not provided centrally by the State, the State cannot give it. The State guarantees that if someone does not repay the loan, the State will make its commitment. If there is no one to provide loans, then we may not be talking about student loans. There's no way we can talk about student loans! We'll talk about something that doesn't exist. I hope you understand that! If you want to create and say, "We protect the students, do something that will be as real as possible." Go and ask those who will provide the loan. Ask those who benefit from this loan.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u64	We don't rule, you rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u65	Just because you don't rule, Mr. Zablyanov, doesn't mean you shouldn't do texts that are functional for people. Find out! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the cabinet management programme Borisov 3 as a top priority is education. A major tool to ensure young people's access to quality higher education is the Law on crediting students and PhD students. Despite the changed social and economic situation, the Law has not been updated since its adoption in 2008. The analysis of the data for the period 2010 to 2015 shows that only four banks operating on the Bulgarian market are offering this product when starting the credit system. For the five years, the total number of loans granted was 17 thousand. 928 BGN, of which for payment of fees for training BGN 628. And only 300 leva. For maintenance, the total amount of loans received is 114,631 million. lv. Despite the interest of students in this kind of credit, trends arise that limit young people's ability to get their education. This is the case with the provision of art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law, which limits the scope of persons who can obtain credit, namely only for persons in regular form of training. We lawmakers do not believe that students in other forms of training should be discriminated against because they do not have enough resources and free time and combine training with work. And that is why we propose to delete the words in regular form and in regular form of training. 3, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 26, para. 1, t. 2. The main problem in the current Law is that it enables creditors to allocate funds against interest far above market rates, although the State guarantees the full amount of loans. After analyzing European practices at these types of loans and interest rates on other products offered by banks operating on the Bulgarian market, we propose a change in art. 20, para. 1: The maximum authorised interest rate to be reduced from 7 to 3,5 percentage points. With this we will make this type of lending more accessible and attractive for young people in order to obtain adequate education and perspectives in Bulgaria and not to leave the homeland on a daily basis. Therefore, we invite you to support the legal changes we have tabled at first reading, giving future students and PhD students a chance for a decent future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Docent Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We do not agree with your proposal for 3.5% and we have just discussed the issue that if this bill is adopted by chance, we will offer zero percent interest, and perhaps some other colleagues will offer negative interest and then we will have some wonderful loans, a wonderful law that will not be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u70	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Another line? I won't. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u71	With the replicator, I can agree to that. There's even such a practice. The loans were interest-free in Germany until 2014. If you offer it at second reading, we will support it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Simeonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am not a financier, and I would not allow myself to express myself as such, but I am a teacher, and that is why I have many students who were students, fellow students, or maybe they did not have the opportunity to be. I am a proud mother of two students in Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why [[GERB noise and lines]] My speech will be a little more emotional. When the Law on Students and Doctoral Students was adopted in 2008, a precise and clear objective was formulated, namely to improve the conditions for access to higher education, and the basic principles were: participation of students and PhD students in funding training, promoting competition between higher schools to provide better quality higher education, ensuring equal access to higher education of persons regardless of social status. If this objective is fulfilled, then the Law does not need to be amended. Is that right, though? Higher education is a value. It's expensive and it's an investment. That's how I want my students and my children to think. Yeah, he invested both the state and the students. Then when we invest, we need to know what we're getting at. The state needs to know that it invests in students who will then receive quality education and will be realized here in Bulgaria. The student invests his future income and wants to then receive the corresponding and additional income. Is that right now? Businesses increasingly do not see the meaning in higher education in the way it is currently being implemented. Because there are many more people who, without higher education, have influence and success. There are plenty of examples of such people. For another year, almost all of our universities had and could not fill their quotas with students. This is because the number of graduates is less than the number of seats for students. Excuse me, but it is more and more necessary to say that today in Bulgaria it is harder to enter kindergarten than to become a student or to enter the university. According to statistics, over 50% of young people do not work in their specialties, more than 50% of graduates do not work in positions that require higher education. And why do we discriminate against people who are in a breech, remote form of training or evening training? I have cases with my students who had the courage of 19 years to start a family and have a child. How can these two young people, even working, be able to raise a child and, excuse me, pay for the attendance and exam fees that are needed? And finally, I want to end up with what may be one of the parents' greatest pain. Support this bill to amend and supplement the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students in order for our children to study in Bulgaria, to be realized in Bulgaria and to work for its development! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, you have explained very thoroughly why Bulgarian students do not want to study in Bulgaria. But it's not just about that! They do not want to study in Bulgaria because in Bulgaria the training is more expensive than in developed European countries. [[GERB lines: "Eee. "]] That's why they don't want to study! Because it's more expensive. And if you'd like to explain to us whether, with this minor adjustment in interest rates for student loans, this trend can be reversed. I doubt she could turn around with such a petty amendment. In order to reverse this trend, I think higher education should become free of charge, to give scholarships to students and the Student City to become a Student City, not a casino. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Another line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, you have very proudly shared your parental satisfaction that your children are students in Bulgaria. I am also proud that my children are in Bulgaria, here they study their secondary, higher education. I am very interested in why your President's child does not study in Bulgaria? [[BSP comments for Bulgaria: "Eee. "]] Because maybe he didn't use the credit system. [[Heckling]] If I have to go into this tone, I can continue with other colleagues on the left, whose children are not in Bulgaria. There's one big difference, fellow Members... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u78	Would you please be quiet?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u79	No, it's very difficult for them to keep quiet. There's one big difference between that. I encourage all young people and my former students to go and study abroad, learn and take the experience they can get from any country in the world, but then come back and realize their potential here. And this is the more important task and many young people do it. The fact that you don't want to see it is your problem. Regarding whether students in the Bulgarian universities will increase and whether our children will choose them, a very serious case and a question on which higher schools should think is what teachers are entering and what teachers are working with our children............................. are they with the tone they demonstrate from here are attractive enough for young people? Is there something to teach them, or can we just fill young people's heads with hollow comments on different subjects? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. A line? Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u81	Dear Mrs. Simeonova, as you are about to make a reply, a good statement indeed, but let us answer in your duplicate and your colleagues, one of which are lecturers in higher schools and who called you to offer or support a reduction in student fees, or at all cancellation of student fees, scholarships and so on. Remind them that these colleagues of yours have the right to make these proposals in higher schools, to vote them out, each university is autonomous. The rules for scholarships are determined by the higher schools themselves. Dear colleagues on the left, who are lecturers, and make these proposals in higher schools you are entitled to. Let there be no fees.. depends on the voting in the higher schools. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. You have the floor for the dot, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I'm glad we agree. We all want, yes, we have European experience. Let's see it and apply it in Bulgaria. Let us create conditions for all our children to study here and to be satisfied with what they receive as a quality of education, to be able to be realized here in Bulgaria and then we will all be satisfied. Now, as you are ruling, create these conditions. We'd love for all the kids to study here! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Any other speeches? I do not see any other speeches in this House. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we talk about the student lending system, we still need to put it in the general context. The main tool for supporting access to higher education in Bulgaria is the subsidy for supporting the training. We have secondary instruments, like scholarships, funding access to student dorms, chairs. The student lending system is also such a secondary tool, because in our shared model of financing higher education the fees are relatively low. The other thing we have to say is that in Bulgaria is selected a bank-based model of student lending - a model where lending takes place with the resources of the banks themselves, loans are administered by the banks themselves. No state agency has been set up, no budget resource is involved. In this model, chosen 2008, however much we want to be social, that is why Mr. Zablyanov called us, and Mr. Mihov said that he wanted to be extremely social, we cannot be infinitely social in a bank-based model of student lending. If you want, propose a change in the Law, but then we need to engage budget resources and with taxpayers' funds to regulate negative interest rates. But it is still not free, because with taxpayers' resources it means that we have to take it from someone, and the analysis shows that budget funding models are even regression. You know what a regression model of student lending means, you take even from lucrative groups that don't use the service, and you give it to higher education, but that's one deviation. I wanted to tell you that if we want to be infinitely social, we need to propose a change in the pattern. If this model remains, we still have to take into account the cost of banking resources and by offering some value, it has to be argued. There were such useful talks at the meeting of the Education Committee. Look at the annual rate of our expenses! I'm not saying interest, I'm saying the annual cost percentage of a risk-free loan that's unprefective today and how much it was seven years ago. Since this is a fixed interest loan, do one average over the long term. This whole thing has financial mathematics behind it and you will see that what is written in the Law, and I stress that it is recorded up to 7%, there are banks that offer at a lower interest rate, although a little lower, has its economic logic and it was very well shown by the banks. So our desire to be social cannot be realized within an infinite social, within a banking-based model. And as Mrs Simeonova said, I thank her very much for arguing that we do not have a common access problem and we have a structural problem. In 1990, admissions to the higher education system were 30% of graduates of high school, today nearly 80%. Our problem is structural, because as they talk to rectors, they tell me, although for some professional directions, priority grants give double scholarships, increase the reception, they record paid training in other professional directions in which we reduce the reception. In other words, it's not just a matter of economic access, it's a desire for students to learn one thing or another. Last year we increased scholarships for students in priority professional directions. We need engineering and technical personnel, pedagogical, agricultural personnel, and as our analysis shows, even in humanitarian disciplines, we have an expected shortage. At the same time, we have a large percentage of irrational demand for higher education, which has grown mostly in public science. With such proposals to promote overall acceptance in the system of higher education, except that this has caused damage to the reputation and professional education, besides what you said, only 50% of those who graduate are realized in positions that require higher education, we risk increasing the rate of irrational demand. Rather, we should look for these tools that continue to guide and motivate students to train in the professional fields with an expected future shortage of the labour market. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That's why I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. [[Heckling]] I've already announced that we're going to vote. If it's procedure after that. I put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Crediting of Students and Doctoral Students, No 854-01-3, submitted by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs. They voted 170 MPs: for 72, against 28 and abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, on behalf of the group, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria has been presiding over the Council of the European Union for three months now, but instead of defending and imposing among the member states of the Union, its priorities, the government is creating a gaffe after a gaffe. On 20 March 2018, the Ministry of Interior created an incredible scandal that questioned not only the country's security but also the whole of Europe. What's going on? A full shift of staff of the Border Police (C police) have left their jobs, as a result of which 42 passengers on a flight from Paris enter our territory without any verification. They arrived at Terminal 2's salon at 3:35 p.m., but there wasn't a single employee there, so they took their bags and just left. Something I've never seen before! We ask: is this the government's efforts to protect European borders? Dear colleagues, what has happened cannot be called in any other way than criminal negligence and negligence, which put a huge stain on the authority of the state. Unfortunately, this is a scandalous security breach at Sofia airport, which is absolute sabotage by the Ministry of Interior and pours water into the mill of the biggest critics of Bulgaria's full membership in the European Union. The reaction of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior and his servants, to even greater regret, was totally inadequate. It's chaos! They came into conflicting and inconclusive explanations. First, they didn't know what had happened, then it turned out that information had reached the Ministry's leadership two days after the accident. Then, instead of seeing the big problem, they rushed to explain how one employee was in a toilet, another had lunch, smoked, and so on, activities incompatible with the debt. After that, responsibility was transferred from one ministry to another, and in reality no one takes political responsibility for this outrage. I quote Interior Minister Radev: There is a check, I have ordered it, I wait for the results, not to jump into the fire before what happened. I'm gonna check exactly what happened, see who's guilty, because that's disturbing. A whole plane! It's dangerous for one to get away from them, imagine more people! I hope it didn't come to that, but it's a precedent. It would have been a precedent, Mr. Minister, if it had not been for the migrant trafficking scheme, which was revealed at Sofia airport only a year ago or the juvenile bombing of suspicious cars at the same airport even earlier, with another minister of this majority. And they calmed us down: "It's okay, the plane comes from France, there passengers are probably checked out, even though only three days later on March 23rd, it was in France that there was once again a serious terrorist act. What are you waiting for, gentlemen? Is this going to happen in Bulgaria too?! However, there is a problem, honourable Members, and it does not isolate itself with what happened on 20 March 2018 at Sofia Airport. For a month we have been signaling serious breaches at our land borders, literally holed holes, and these are collapsed as a result of poor construction of the partition facility, which must protect the external borders of the European Union. Facilities for which nearly 250 million Bulgarian taxpayers and tens of millions of the European Union have been spent! Let's remember the non-working surveillance cameras due to unpaid electricity bills, the freezing policemen and their torn shoes. Well, at least you sanitized the fence, guys! Now it will be repaired without a public procurement service. Quickly to cover the tracks! Even though there is pre-trial proceedings, even though the inquiries drawn up in this very same Ministry of Interior point to something disturbing. The captured migrants were found either inside or at an exit from the country. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who hypocritically before both Bulgarian citizens and the European partners in Brussels on 1 February said: "It is just not fair! It's not fair to come up with any motives that aren't there. And it's getting harder to come up with because the European Commission, the European Parliament, were checking the border and it turns out that Bulgaria is the best guarded. You keep making it up! It's insulting for us! We're doing our duty. Dear Prime Minister, it is insulting for us Bulgarian citizens. I'll tell you one thing: you lied and obviously both you and your team are not doing your job and you're fooling everyone. Dear governors, thanks to the lack of adequacy on your part, the security of the Bulgarian border has become a problem that is deepening. We want very quick, adequate answers to all our questions, political responsibility, and this can only be one way and only the resignation of the Interior Minister. Only this can restore trust in the institutions and in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[(Applause, banging on banks and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] Who exactly are you resigning from? Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues on the left, there are wonderful children who have come to visit the Bulgarian Parliament. The moment you started acting like this, they all grabbed their mouths and their head: how could this happen in the Bulgarian Parliament? Please give with democratic means, with parliamentary means, but not with knocking at the bank! On 26 March last year, Bulgarian voters voted to have this government today. Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Let's continue with: THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY CODEX. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u91	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 854-01-12, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova, Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Tasco Mihailov Ermenkov, Petar Boykov Vitanov, Konstantin Veselinov Popov, Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev and Spas Yanev Panchev on 22 February 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 21 March 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 784-01-12, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the National Representative Spas Panchev. At the beginning of the presentation he pointed out facts that are known to the Bulgarian society. Under the international commitments of our country and through decisions of the National Assembly, Bulgarian soldiers carry out operations and missions abroad. Twenty-three of them died during the execution of a mission. 13 people died in Iraq and 10 in Cambodia in the execution of their service. The parents of missionary soldiers believe that as their successors, they should receive a survivor's pension. This motivated the MPs to submit the bill. The Social Security Code, which provides for a survivor's pension from a parent whose child died during a selection service, does not recognise the same parent's right to die during an overseas operation or mission. The importers of the bill consider that an exception to the general rule and to that category of persons should be provided. They therefore present the following motives. According to the provision of art. 133, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria military service is a public service with special purpose for the preparation and implementation of armed protection of the country. It is implemented on and off the territory of the country. One of the hypotheses of military service outside the country is when participating in operations and missions, under these conditions military service is characterised by certain burdens and risk factors. In view of the specifics of the military service carried out in operations and missions outside the territory of the country in the Criminal Code, Chapter 13 of the Military Crimes. Section VI provides that war crimes committed under these conditions are to be subject to more severe penalties than the same crimes committed on the territory of the country. In the provisions of art. No. 104, para. 7 and 8 of the Social Security Code provides for an exception to the general rule on respect for insurance service retirement for servicemen participating in operations and missions outside the territory of the country as follows: if the operation or mission is at a high risk, one year of retirement is actually served for three years of third-category insurance service, respectively if the operation or mission is at a low risk for two years of insurance service. It is envisaged that during an operation or mission of the servicemen additional remuneration should be paid for service in an immediate risk area under the provisions of Decree No 260 of the Council of Ministers of 2003 on determining the remuneration of personnel in the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in peacekeeping operations and missions under the auspices of international organisations. The Members of the National Assembly have made a preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed bill in which they have recorded the following in the various paragraphs. Grounds for legislative initiative. The legislative initiative concerns the Bulgarian servicemen who perform this particular service, as is a particular military service, government service in operations and missions outside the country. The bill is directed at the parents of those who perish during the ministry. The proposal is for them to enjoy special conditions in obtaining a survivor's pension currently provided for the parents of the persons who died during a selection service. At present, an interested group is that of the parents of the deceased, who are a total of 23 people. The amount of funds needed for the implementation of the legislative initiative is BGN 55 589. A year, provided that all 23 soldiers died on a mission are officers and have living parents. The bill does not require administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and fees. The adoption of the Bill is unrelated and does not require any changes to other regulations. The Commission received and provided the importers of the Bill and the members of the Commission with opinions of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In his opinion on the draft Law of the Ministry of Defence, Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov pointed out that the proposed proposal is appropriate and should be supported on the grounds set out in the Law and in the light of the specifics of the military service. In the provision of art. 83, para. 4 of the Social Security Code is regulated that in the event of the death of a serviceman of a selection of military service to his heirs is granted a survivor's pension, taking as a basis the amount equal to the next pension for military disability in the case of permanently reduced work capacity over 90 per cent. § 2 of the Bill suggests that the method for calculating the survivor's pension should also apply to the heirs of the servicemen who died in or on the occasion of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country. The Deputy Minister said that the Ministry of Defence supported the proposal but considered that, in the interests of clarity of the provision, after the words The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the submitted bill and makes the following remarks. Under the legislation in force, the parents of the persons who died during the recruitment service shall be entitled only to a survivor's pension for military disability under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Art. 4 and art. 86, para. 2 of the Social Security Code. This is because the deceased in the barracks are not insured persons and their heirs are not entitled to a survivor's pension related to the inheritance's contribution. On the other hand, servicemen who perform military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country are employed on the basis of a contract concluded, which is why they are in the circle of socially insured persons. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Code of Social Security in the event of death of the insured of the heirs is granted pension in accordance with the type of personal pension for general illness or because of an accident or occupational disease which the deceased would have received as an invalid with a loss of employment of more than 90 per cent. Thus, the heirs of the servicemen who perform military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country, if they meet the conditions laid down in art. 82 of the Social Security Code shall be entitled to a survivor's disability pension due to an accident at work. The right to a military disability pension in the event of the death of a soldier who performs military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country is a new, additional right, which creates another opportunity to grant a survivor's pension for military disability to the heirs of the deceased. In order to refine proposals, a draft Law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy offers new editorials to all paragraphs of it. They also propose, as part of the provisions used the expression "dead in or on the occasion of the execution of military service in operations or missions', and in others only the "in the performance of military service in operations or missions' to bring together the provisions of the proposed Draft. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Nikolay Sirakov, Nadia Klisurska and Hasan Ademov. The MPs commented that they shared the motives of the importers and found it appropriate to grant inherited pensions to the parents of the Bulgarian soldiers who died in the execution of missions. Another approach could have been chosen by importers, for example through social assistance or insurance, to solve this private case. However, importers have chosen the social security instrument. In this case, it must be borne in mind that by solving the case of this small group, the principles of security are somewhat violated. Between the first and second reading of the Bill, proposals should be made to provide pension rights for other groups of people with similar problems. It is necessary to overcome the feeling that the group of parents at issue will be placed in some particular privilege. At least, appropriate proposals should ensure a level playing field between the parents of persons who died during military service and the parents of those who died during overseas operations or missions. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code, No 784-01-12, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Tasko Ermenkov, Petar Vitanov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. The next report belongs to the Defence Committee. We have a lot of guests today. I just couldn't say that our guests were students from the Pyrop Professional High School. We now have guests from the 18th high school of William Gladstone, Sofia, students from the 4th grade who are on the balcony. We also have guests from the music school of Elita Association, Veliko Tarnovo. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] Here you are to present the report, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Defence on a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the The Social Security Code No 854-01-12, submitted by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Petar Vitanov, Tasko Ermenkov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev on 22 February 2018. At a regular meeting held on 1 March 2018, the Defence Committee examined for a first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code No 854-01-12, submitted by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 22 February 2018. There were 19 MPs present. The draft was presented by the chairman of the commission, MP Konstantin Popov, who noted that since 1992 contingents of the Bulgarian Army, military specialists and military observers have been involved in UN, OSCE, NATO and EU peacekeeping and mission-keeping operations. Doing their duty, twenty-three decent officers, sergeants lost their lives. Their parents are not entitled to inherited pensions, given the situation adopted in the Social Security Code in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of Section 3 of the Hereditary Pension Scheme, that the right to a survivor's pension has the heirs only of the deceased soldiers of military service. At the same time, according to art. 133 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria states that the Armed Forces Service is carried out on the territory of the country and beyond. The military service in that Article is also designated as a special-purpose public service. In this sense, although the participation of servicemen in missions and operations is formally carried out on a voluntary basis, it is fair to consider that the risk in this case is incomparably greater than on the territory of the country, and the service of such missions and operations is an integral part of the national security protection system. In essence, the current situation in the Social Security Code is also a deep moral problem, which is why importers are convinced that the issue must find a fair solution. The amendments concern Articles of the Code governing the rights, conditions and types of hereditary pensions, as well as the arrangements for their receipt. These are Articles 82, 83, 85, 86 and 101, to which text relating to servicemen who died in or on the occasion of military service in operations or missions outside the territory of the country is added. People's representative Petar Vitanov expressed the same motives and noted that for years this issue did not receive an adequate solution and pointed out that such an exception in the Social Security Code would be a fair solution. In the subsequent discussion, all members of the Defence Committee agreed with the reasons presented and expressed their full support for the vote on the bill. 19 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code, No 854-01-12, tabled by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Petar Vitanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev on 22 February 2018.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u94	Thank you, dear General Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to address you and ask: more than an hour and a half ago we made a call from the National Assembly's stand to call the Prime Minister on the case "Scripal" and on the occasion of what imposed a change of the Bulgarian position. I'd like to know what the result is. Have you had a chance to contact him yet and what is his response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u96	Yes, Mr. Vitanov. I've contacted the Prime Minister. He's in a meeting with the grain producers right now, and he can't come, but he'll let me know as soon as he can. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! We've heard the reports of the two committees. Of course, there are also different opinions, different opinions. I do not want to enter into a debate with such great specialists who deal with the social security that we have here in Parliament. My greatest respect to Mr. Ademov. Of course, there are different positions of different departments. They were reflected very detail, but I want to give a slightly more general view on things, a slightly different perspective and it is related to the special status which the servicemen have, which is derived by the way from the Constitution of Bulgaria, which is art. 9, para. 1: Art. 9. (1) The armed forces shall ensure the sovereignty, security and independence of the country and shall protect its territorial integrity. When we say the Armed Forces, it's not some imaginary concept. These are people. And that is why these people have a special status that is reflected in the Law of Defense and the Armed Forces and that is in art. 133, para. 1. I'll take the liberty of reading that too: Art. 133. (1) The military service shall be a public service with special purpose for the preparation and implementation of armed protection of the country. Citizens admitted to military service are soldiers. Take a look at this: For special purpose for the preparation and implementation of armed protection of the country. That is why there are special requirements for servicemen, which are once again regulated in regulations, in the Defence and Armed Forces Act and there are serious restrictions. Some of them also relate to their right to association, to participation in trade unions, a ban on participation in political parties, political campaigns, fundamental rights that we all have. Their special status is determined by the fact that there are also specialized structures such as the Military Prosecutor's Office, the Military Court, the Military Police, as there are special requirements for these people and I will give an example. If in an enterprise not fulfilling the order of a superior chief is an administrative violation, then in the army this can also be classified as a crime and the person will go to prison, that is, the thesis is that these people have a really special status. [[Heckling]] It's a bit of a right. The second feature that has it is that we in these changes that we propose in the Social Security Code treat specific conditions in which they act. These are precisely mid- and high-risk areas and the tasks they perform are fixed missions and operations. They don't go for a walk, they don't go to Hawaii, they don't go to sunbathing. These people go to protect national interests, to protect Bulgaria in a serious, difficult, very risky, conscious environment. This situation is characterized by a number of peculiarities of climate, cultural, domestic, but this environment is also an environment of military action, of terrorist attacks and of many, many other things, which is also a serious feature that needs to be considered and taken into account. The other thing that I think is important is that these people do not actually act for themselves. They act in the interest of all of us, so that we can calmly think here, explain ourselves, think, be wise, so that our children can play in the gardens, kick a ball. And these people are supported by their families. They were brought up this way by their parents. And that is why I believe that the Social Security Code has what is now a norm. Mr. Ademov and I can share many such exceptions precisely because of this specificity. I therefore believe that it is important for these people to pay particular attention, including in the Social Security Code, because these people have specific obligations relating to national security operating in specific conditions of increased risk. In my opinion, we should not make any difference on which side of the border died, we have, by the way, one such exception, namely that it has been mentioned that it has been turned into a norm, and I think it is absolutely right that the optionals who have died during a selection service, their parents, their heirs have specific rights, receive pensions under this law. I believe that our proposals are timely, correct, perhaps even slightly late, but they are also deeply moral. They're deeply moral because we're talking about national security here, we're talking about sovereignty here, we're talking about territorial integrity, and if we don't raise people in this spirit voluntarily to go into risk areas and fulfill these obligations, including at risk for our lives, maybe we won't have those people after a while. If we don't have such people, it's likely we don't have a country, we don't have state institutions. This is where we must manifest our sense of responsibility for the state, for these people and find the right solution. Of course there may be changes, but the leading beginning is that we, as a parliament in the Republic of Bulgaria, have to take care of our state institutions, for the people who provide this thing to have such holidays as March 3rd, with a solemn fireworks check, where we can talk and get down on our knees to honor those who died, to have holidays like September 6th, to have such holidays as September 20th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u98	Thank you, dear General Popov. Replies to General Popov's statement? I don't see any lines. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that this idea arose from a meeting of ours in the party with parents of dead servicemen abroad, but the contribution to the changes to get here is not just for us politicians, but, above all, for those women who methodically, consistently and with full reason work for this change for nearly a decade. I would also like to express my satisfaction that we find consensus among almost all political parties in this National Assembly on this issue with such a strong public response. I am convinced that we all share the opinion that the solution to the problem is not only a moral duty to the heirs of those who died in operations and missions Bulgarian soldiers, but also a question of justice, which I hope no one will oppose. We've already talked about part of the motive. You know that under international commitments and the will of the National Assembly, Bulgarian servicemen carry out missions and operations abroad and over the years have proved that they are dealing with this task responsibly and dignifiedly, and proudly carry our native flag. Sadly, 23 people did not return from such missions. 13 died in Iraq, and 10 died in Cambodia, and for years the parents of the fallen soldiers felt forgotten and neglected by the country for which their children dedicated their lives. One of the main reasons is precisely that the Social Security Code provides for a survivor's pension for a parent whose child died during the performance of military service and does not recognise the same parental right to die during operations and missions abroad. I understand well that the proposal is interpreted to some extent as an exception in the Social Security Code and violates a fundamental principle in it. We are aware that before us, the legislator has determined the right to a survivor's pension only to the fallen recruiters, because by virtue of universal military guilt they had no choice but to fulfil their national debt at their appointed age. They were not able to enter the barracks until they had work experience and therefore did not have any social contribution. In this sense, the views expressed by some MPs during the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy for seeking another type of approach, for example through social assistance or insurance, are not deprived of their logic. Everyone, I think, will agree that the basis for the proposed norm is, however, legislative appropriateness and I will point out several reasons in this regard. Maybe I'll do it again, but in art. 133 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria military service and its bearing quite rightly and, I would say, it is generally recognized as a state service with special purpose for the preparation and implementation of armed protection of the country. In addition to this Article. 134 of the same law defines the armed forces service to be carried out on and outside the territory of the country. This regulation no doubt shows that, in today's conditions, the service outside the territory of the country, which is actually participation in operations and missions, is an integral part of the protection of the country's national security. Moreover, in a narrower sense it is part of the preparation for armed protection, taking an argument from art. 133, not excluding at a certain time and its implementation, and it is fair to consider that the risk in this case is incomparably greater than on the territory of the country. Moreover, in view of the specifics of the military service performed in operations and missions outside the territory of the country, in the Penal Code, Chapter 13th, Section VI is intended for war crimes committed under these conditions, the penalties to be more severe than those committed on the territory of the country. With regard to this category of personnel carrying out missions and operations outside the territory of the country, there are exceptions in the Social Security Code, it has already been referred to the internship, in a decree of the Council of Ministers for additional remuneration and so on. I am convinced that ensuring a level playing field between the parents of servicemen who have died in military service, as previously laid down in the Social Security Code in art. 82, para. 4, with the right to receive a survivor's pension, regardless of the age of the parents of the fallen servicemen during operations and missions outside the country, is our duty, regardless of the possible fears that a principle is being violated. Questions often have other dimensions, and some form of compensation in another way.. either through insurance, or through targeted aid, is rather a kind of assistance, while the right to a survivor's pension, apart from the necessity in this case, is recognition by the state and public respect. I therefore call on all Members of the National Assembly to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vitanov, I use as a line to avoid further speaking, to make an addition to the things you have set out. Speaking of missions and operations, I must make a very important point here that it is about people who have been sent to implement a decision of the National Assembly, which is extremely important in this case. Because in accordance with the Constitution............................................................................................... 84, p. 11 Only the National Assembly can send in missions and operations. These people didn't just go for a walk, we sent them, or rather the people who sat in this room. That's why you're right here, and here we all have to take responsibility to give them security when they go to do their duty, to be calm for their families. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Vitanov, will he have the back? No. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will begin with these words: To keep myself, the people separate their honest, healthy sons into a particular host, from which they want dedication to death, that is, boundless. The dedication of the units is necessary to preserve the nations. Fatherland is created only by self-denial. The salvation of personality is in the salvation of society. If the whole world dies, what are you for? Those aren't my words. They belong to the great, great Bulgarian commander, born in Skopje, Colonel Drangov. They were written more than a century ago and today we may make a legal exception, but we will respect these principles, formulated in such a way by Colonel Dragov. Today we will give a small gesture, a little retribution, fortunately, to a small group of people. I say fortunately because these victims, which in the years have been suffered by the Bulgarian people and army, are few. But we will actually give the big sign that the people and the state treat the Bulgarian military, men and women in uniform in the way that Colonel Dragov has bequeathed to us, and I hereby declare the support of the United Patriarchs for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to emphasise that we are currently looking at changes to the Social Security Code. Why am I saying this? Because when we talk about the Social Security Code, the arguments need to be insured. I know this discussion is difficult. I know that this discussion is loaded with emotional and moral arguments that have just been expressed by colleagues, but if we want one way or another to be in agreement with the insurance law, agreeing with the principles of international law, with the commitments that we have made, we must try to step on the insurance arguments. Why am I saying this? Because currently, importers' arguments are in the direction of restoring a level playing field between the parents of individuals who died during military service and the parents of soldiers who died during missions outside the country. Unfortunately, however, instead of creating this equality, with the texts tabled, with the five paragraphs, we are creating a new inequality. This is the big problem, because there is hardly anyone in this room who does not want to support the families of the servicemen who died in fulfilling their commitments during missions outside the country. There's no such person and there's no way! The big question is whether the proposed way is in line with our insurance legislation. Look at the difference! Those who, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, have died during military service, are not insured because they are in military service. On the other hand, the legislator has provided preferences for them, and this internship is calculated as donated by the State, but during the selection of military service they do not have insurance rights and therefore do not have the right to inherited pensions. That is why the legislator has foreseen that the parents of those who died in the military service can receive.. and this is the conscious action of the legislator......................................................................................... Because they have no insurance rights, no persons are insured, and there is no way for their heirs to benefit from the right to a survivor's pension that is calculated on the basis of a social contribution. That's why the lawmaker said he should have a military disability pension. The other category of persons who died during missions outside the country were insured persons on the basis of a contract which under the Defence and Armed Forces Act entered into before they went to carry out their duties on this mission outside the country. It follows that they have insurance rights. Their parents are entitled to a survivor's pension. Their parents are entitled to all rights that apply to insured persons. Here's the big difference. No one is saying that these people should not be supported. I am talking about the parents of those who died outside the country in missions by the state. The special protection of the state for such people must exist. The big question is whether this should be through the social security legislation, through the Defense and Armed Forces Act, whether it should be based on insurance schemes or be at the expense of the Order of the Council of Ministers, what is available in the implementation of such missions for individual remuneration of this group of people. But where does the problem come from? The problem comes from the fact that instead of creating a level playing field, with this proposal, the parents of those who died during the military service are entitled to a military disability pension. Now what we propose for the parents of those who died on missions outside the country will be entitled to three pensions. I'm not saying that's a lot. This is not about money at all, because the funds that would have been paid by state social security are 55 thousand. lv. A year, which, compared to the DVO budget, means about 12 billion, does not mean anything. There is no means to bring back and somehow replace the grief of these people in their dead children. There is no such financial amount and I am convinced that everyone in this House knows that it is. The big problem is that in practice the National Insurance Institute will not be able to implement the legislation proposed because these people will be entitled to a survivor's pension for an accident, they will be entitled to a military disability pension, and if they meet the conditions of the Social Security Code, they will also have the right to an internship and age pension. In the Law there are restrictive texts in the Code where two pensions can be paid. How will the National Insurance Institute decide which of the pensions to pay? Therefore, colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in an opinion they presented during the meeting said that all five paragraphs should be revised. Otherwise the Law will not be able to function, otherwise the good idea of colleagues cannot be realized. If I had been presented with this project to sign, I would also think about solving the difficult dilemma between expert and emotional arguments, because this is indeed a dilemma. That's exactly what this project is about. I'll say something else that's important. In the Defence and Armed Forces Act in art. 70, para. 2 writes "In addition to those listed in the project who can be posted to missions outside the country: officials from the State Agency of National Security and civil servants under the State Agency of Intelligence Act can participate in missions and operations outside the country under para. 1. Okay, what are we telling these people?! God forbid, if one of these people dies, they won't have the rights we offer. What do we tell the civil servants, the one who recently died, a man who worked at the National Revenue Agency? What do we tell the parents of the miners who died underground? You will have the right to a survivor's pension, you will have no other rights. It's the double archin. Why am I saying double arsin? Because here, in this House, the National Assembly rejected a bill which was submitted by colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for the use of compensation to the wounded during protest rallies and demonstrations. Eight people carry their wounds all these years. Colleagues, in social security, an exception made for the parents of the servicemen who died during a selection of military service is again under such emotional pressure. I am sure that this exception we are making will lead to more demands for reasons and with the same arguments. Then the question arises: for popular measures, we find consensus with other colleagues. This is not a coincidence, this is the first bill which has been tabled by Mr. Tsvetanov and Mrs. Cornelia Ninova along with the other colleagues, but this type of exception and support for popular measures lead to the mandatory adoption of other unpopular measures. For example, increasing the age of employees under art. 69. Who agreed then? Was there such a consensus? These are important questions that we need to think about and rethink so that we can be in agreement. Otherwise, I repeat, no one is opposed to solving these people's problems. We are talking about an additional military disability pension, if we are talking about regular servicemen - 150% of the social pension for old age, if we are talking about officers - 160%. We are talking about a sum between 180 and 200 BGN more. That money won't bring back their children. That's the main argument. Social insurance arguments, unfortunately, are not in this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u106	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov! I don't even have the moral right to argue with you about the expert part of your speech, given the preparation, internship and all the work I've known since 1990, so I can't get into an expert argument. What I want to tell you is that here we are not trying to resist an emotion of expertise. Here we are trying to give something that is perhaps Bulgaria's recognition to those who died, fulfilling their military duty. That's why we're talking about military duty. We're not talking about some other citizen or anything. We are talking about something that Mr. Popov also mentioned that the service is in a more special state, in a particular condition. Perhaps there are indeed imperfections in the text that we have proposed. There must be some. I call on you to support it at first reading this bill, as you can see, supported again by almost all MPs, and between first and second reading to find those additional changes that could improve the Law, because you yourself know the perfecting laws there are no. Laws are also created by people and are changed by people, including codes, not just normal laws. I call on everyone in this House to support this law at first reading. In this way we will show both empathy and responsibility and give a good message to those who protect Bulgaria outside the borders of Bulgaria. When we talk about missions abroad, it is a fight for our national security, even though it is not on the territory of Bulgaria. This is prevention of actions that could be within the territory of Bulgaria and have been exported outside this territory without us suffering victims as a peaceful population. I therefore call once again: let us support it at first reading, and between first and second readings in a serious debate to see what can be included, including, if necessary, those who in the same sense of the Defence Act are sent on missions and perished there, to be included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Is there gonna be a second line? No. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov! The arguments that you said are again from the sphere of emotional rather than insurance arguments. This is a very important thing. If we were to amend the Defence and Armed Forces Act, yes, all these arguments are relevant. In the National Assembly of the political advance price there should be actors who are armed with expertise and professionalism. The rest is the work of extras and second-rate artists, so I don't want to blame anyone. I mean, professionalism and expertise should rule in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u110	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are we gonna have any more speeches? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u111	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will try within two or three minutes to say what I think. For 28 years we have been living in a democratic time, in which Bulgaria started fulfilling its missions and participations abroad as early as 1992. Unfortunately, the UN's first mission in Cambodia ended unhappy for 10 soldiers who found their deaths there, and 2003 another 13 soldiers found their deaths in Iraq. During these years, when there was a set military service, the legislation was not decided for the benefit of those who were going on missions abroad, but as Mr. Gajev mentioned, by decision of the National Assembly we sent our soldiers on missions abroad. There was a pass in the legislation. Today, the matter is settled differently. I attended the meeting of the Social Committee and I am pleased that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Care supported our idea of a change in the Law. Thanks to Mr. Ademov, who as former Minister and as long-standing President of the Commission is a man of great experience. We voted in favour, our colleagues from the DPS abstained, but it is good that the legislator has decided that the issue between first and second votes is possible to change. I hope that the DPS in the second vote will support the bill because, as the Ministry of Social Services has said, there must be some new editorials and there will be revised proposals, we will be able to get together to vote in this House on a bill that will solve an injustice, because we really are in debt to these people and their loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 854-01-12, tabled by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Petar Vitanov, Tasko Ermenkov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev on 22 February 2018. They voted 143 MPs: 135, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. There's a procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the newly adopted bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code by two more weeks, or the total period between the first and second reading for proposals to be 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote Mrs. Angelova's procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the bill, which we adopted just now. Colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the MP's Club. Music school. "Elits" Association will present a short music program in Veliko Tarnovo. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u115	We're starting work, fellow Members. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE 50,supplied in Monreal on 6 October 2016, and in the framework of the Agreement on International CIVIL AIRCRAFT ON 6 October 2016, the Convention on International CIVIL AIRCRAFT, as recorded in the Monreal on 6 October 2016, and the Convention on International CIVIL AIRCRAFT. 56 OF THE INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AIRCRAFT CONVENTION, REFERRED TO IN MONREAL ON 6 OCTOBER 2016 The report by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will present Mr. Letifov. You have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, and Mr. Stanimir Leshev, Director of the General Directorate of Air Navigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please invite the representatives of the executives admitted to the Chamber to take their seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol amending art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, No 802-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 21 March 2018, the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment to art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, No 802-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Stanimir Leshev. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, who said that at the 39th session held between 27 September and 6 October 2016 in Montreal, the ICAO Assembly has adopted decisions to increase the number of the Council and the Air Navigation Commission, which in turn also imposes relevant amendments to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. To this end, Resolution A39 "5" on the amendment of art. 50, point (a) to increase the composition of the Assembly from thirty-six to forty members and Resolution A39 "7" concerning amendment of art. 56 to increase the number of the Air Navigation Commission from nineteen to twenty-one members. The resolutions also contain an appeal to the States Parties to the Convention to ratify the amendments as soon as possible and the aim is for the amendments to enter into force before the next elections for the ICAO Council in 2019. The Council and the Air Navigation Commission are the two most important elected bodies on which ICAO's work in establishing and implementing the standards and recommended practices in the field of civil aviation applicable globally depends. Any national legislation, as well as European Union aviation law, shall be based on the Convention on International Civil Aviation and its 19 anexes. Mr. Zanchev stressed that the Member States of the European Union, together with the 44 countries that are members of the European Civil Aviation Conference, are particularly interested in a stronger presence of Europe in the development of air transport policies and standards. The increase in the numerical composition of the main authorities of ICAO would also favour the election of smaller countries, such as the Republic of Bulgaria, when they run as representatives of a region broadcast on a rotational basis. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 18 votes to adopt the Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, No 802-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. For the foreign policy report, Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u120	Dear Mr. President, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, No 802-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. At a regular meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" as follows: The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) is a specialized UN agency established under the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944, hereinafter referred to as the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There are 191 countries in ICAO. The Republic of Bulgaria is a Party to the Convention on International Civil Aviation of 4 August 1966. At its 39th session, held between 27 September and 6 October 2016 in Montreal, the ICAO Assembly adopted decisions to increase the number of the Council and the Air Navigation Commission, which imposes relevant amendments to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. To this end, Resolution A39-5 on the amendment of art. 50, point (a) to increase the composition of the Assembly from thirty-six to forty members and Resolution A39-7 on the amendment of art. 56 to increase the number of the Air Navigation Commission from nineteen to twenty-one members. The resolutions also contain an appeal to the States Parties to the Convention to ratify the amendments as soon as possible and the aim is to bring the amendments into force before the next elections for the ICAO Council in 2019. The Council and the Air Navigation Commission are the two most important elected bodies on which ICAO's work in establishing and implementing the standards and recommended practices in the field of civil aviation applicable globally depends. Any national legislation and European Union aviation law shall be based on the Convention on International Civil Aviation and its 19 anexes. The Member States of the European Union, together with the 44 countries that are members of the European Civil Aviation Conference, are particularly interested in a stronger presence of Europe in the process of drawing up air transport policies and standards. The increase in the numerical composition of the main authorities of ICAO would also favour the election of smaller countries, such as the Republic of Bulgaria, when they run as representatives of a region broadcast on a rotational basis. The extension of the composition of the ICAO Council will respond to the need for a more adequate representation of countries, in line with the increased number of Member States of the international organisation, and to the growing importance of international air transport for national economies. The extension of the composition of the Air Navigation Commission will allow it to attract expertise and experience in various practical areas of aviation from more Member States. With the adoption of the Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment of art. Article 50 (a) and (b) of the Protocol on the amendment of Art. 50 (a) and (c) of the Protocol on the modification of art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation The Republic of Bulgaria will implement Resolution A39-5 and Resolution A39-7 at the 39th session of the ICAO Assembly and will respond to the call for recent ratification. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 14 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt at first reading, the Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u121	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor.]] Do you want a procedure, Mr. Letifov? I suggest we get through the discussions then. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, do you have a say in this? There are no speeches. I shall put to the first vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment to Art. 1. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, No 802 02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Mr. Letifov, you wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 to consider at second reading the adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I put to the vote the proposal for a second reading of the bill. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted. Mr. Letifov presented the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Protocol amending art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. A single member. Rehabilitate the Protocol on the amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. We move on to the second vote of the Law on ratification of the Protocol on amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. A single article, with content presented by the rapporteur; Final provision and paragraph alone of the Final provision, with content presented to us by the rapporteur. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. The law was passed at second reading. We move on to the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: PROJECT OF THE GENERALATION DECISION OF STATE MONETARY PRESENTATIONS TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION No 802-03-1. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2018. Mr. Rashidov, are you going to present the report to the Commission? Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u126	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I'm going to do a procedure! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Amelia Gesheva, Deputy Minister of Culture to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. Sustained. Please invite Mrs. Gesheva to enter the room. Mr. Rashidov, continue with the presentation of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, I read: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to grant State aid cash prizes for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation, No 802-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 16 March 2018, the Council adopted Regulation At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 22 March 2018, a draft decision for granting state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian State and the nation was reviewed, No 802-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Boel Banov, Minister of Culture; Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture; Vanya Bedrova, Head of Political Office; Vesela Shtereva, Parliamentary Secretary; Krasimira Stefova, Secretary General; Tanya Tsvetanova, Director of Legal Activity and Public Procurement; Margarita Vaseva, i.e. Director of the Directorate of Budget and Financial Accounting Activities. The Minister of Culture Mr. Boel Banov presented the draft decision. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The funds necessary for the payment of lifelong state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. By Decision No 163 of 16 March 2018, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant lifelong state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian state and nation for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to the culture of: Maria Konstantinova Chichikova archaeologist; Prof. Ivan Petkov Drenikov, pianist; Alexandrina Milcheva, opera singer; Pavel Kirilov Poppandov, actor; Professor Petar Stefanov Löndev, composer, ethnomusicologist and publicist. As a result of a vote held unanimously with 15 votes for the Council of Culture and Media, without abstention, the Committee of Culture and Media proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 802-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u129	Let us make the speeches and present the solution. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm asking you to present the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll read: Project! DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. Grants state monetary awards lifelong for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation in the amount of 700 BGN per month, respectively: Maria Konstantinova Chichikova, Prof. Ivan Petkov Drenikov, Alexandrina Milcheva, Pavel Kirilov Poppandov, Professor Petar Stefanov Löndev for their outstanding achievements and for their overall contribution to the field of culture. 2. Instructs the Minister for Culture to implement the decision. The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly of.............................. 2018 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Since there are no willing to speak, we are going to vote on the Decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. The content of the decision was presented by the MP Vezhdi Residov. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are continuing with the next, final item of our Programme for today. [[Replication by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev: "Procedure. "]] Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Given the disturbing events in the international situation and the fact that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria called our diplomat in Moscow to understand exactly what is happening in the case, I think that we, as the prime minister's employer and as people who have chosen him, should make sure that he comes to explain to us what is happening around the case. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So I ask you to call him to come and I hope, since he has shown several times in recent months that he is afraid to answer to us [[GERB noise and lines]] and he's afraid to react to events at all, this time to overcome his fear and so, as a big man, to show that he still has a drop of courage in himself and come to explain. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. I will only suggest that you take a look at what the point on procedural matters is in the National Assembly. We continue to consider: The Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organization of the United Nations onfilm, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the Continuation of the Activities of the Regional Centre for the Protection of Non-Material Cultural Research in South-East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the EGYM of UNESCO (Categoria 2), as specified in 10 November 2017 in Paris. Mr. Budinov, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u134	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 22 March 2018, a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the activities of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Boil Banov, Minister of Culture; Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture; Vanya Bedrova, Head of the Political Office; Vesela Shtereva, Parliamentary Secretary; Krasimira Stephova, Secretary General; Tanya Tsvetanova, Director of Legal Activity and Public Procurement; Margarita Vaseva, etc. Director of the Directorate of Budget and Financial and Accounting Activities.; Irena Todorova, Director of UNESCO Regional Centre in Sofia. The bill was presented by Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. On 16 March 2011, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 16 March 2011 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 16 March 2011 to 25 March 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 16 March 2011 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The 41st National Assembly ratified by law the agreement concluded between the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on 25 October 2010 on the establishment of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). The Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe, hereinafter referred to as the Center, is financed by the Bulgarian State on the basis of art. 44 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The Centre covers 16 countries - Albania, Armenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Cyprus, Moldova, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey, Croatia, Montenegro and Ukraine. Other countries are expected to join in the coming years. The Centre's mission is aimed at promoting cooperation in the field of intangible cultural heritage and at national, regional and international level, initiating and implementing initiatives to protect and promote the intangible cultural heritage of the Southeast European countries. Resolution No 93 of the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO of 2013 approved a Complex Strategy for Category 2 Centers under the auspices of UNESCO, which provides that every not more than 6 years they will be appointed by UNESCO audit. In the event of satisfactory results, the UNESCO Executive Board shall decide to renew the Agreement with the relevant UNESCO Category 2 Centre. In January 2017, the audit required for the activities of the Centre in Sofia was carried out, which concludes that it is carrying out its mission under the UNESCO Agreement, Strategy and Goals. The renewal of the Agreement between UNESCO and the Republic of Bulgaria is recommended. On 10 November 2017, the Agreement between UNESCO and the Republic of Bulgaria on the continuation of the Centre's activities for a new 6-year period was signed in Paris. This will establish Bulgaria's position as a leading country in the field of intangible cultural heritage in the region and among the countries signed the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement must be ratified by law. As a result of the vote held unanimously with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention, the Committee on Culture and Media suggests to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia, as Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). Signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9. Implemented by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u135	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u136	Mr. President, my procedure is as follows: the management of the National Assembly to make an appeal to the Commission, which prepares the reports for the adoption of various ratifications, documents and so on, where certain countries are listed, which concern these ratifications and specifically concerning this Centre, which will be built, the Republic of Macedonia to be listed by the name of the Republic of Macedonia, as recognised in Bulgaria and not as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may be for other countries, but Bulgaria has recognised it as the Republic of Macedonia and it is right and proper to write it in all reports and in all committees. Thank you. [[Voices "Bravo," Julian! "Single Claps by "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u137	Thank you, Mr. Angelov, you have your reasons. We will continue, the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. At a regular meeting held on 15 March 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva, Deputy Minister of Culture. On 25 October 2010 an Agreement was concluded between Bulgaria and UNESCO on the establishment in Sofia of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). The agreement was ratified by a law adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 16 March 2011. According to art. 17 The Agreement shall be concluded for a period of six years from its entry into force and shall be deemed to be renewed unless otherwise terminated by either Party as provided for in art. 18. At the moment, the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe, hereinafter referred to as the Center, unites representatives of 16 countries in the region of South East Europe: Albania, Armenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Cyprus, Moldova, Ukraine, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey, Croatia, Montenegro. Other countries are expected to join in the coming years. In agreement with UNESCO, a procedure has been undertaken to renew the Agreement between Bulgaria and UNESCO on the renewal of the Centre's activities in Sofia. In January 2017, the audit required concluded that the Centre is carrying out its mission under the Agreement and in accordance with UNESCO's strategy and objectives was carried out. A recommendation was made for the renewal of the Agreement between UNESCO and the Republic of Bulgaria. According to UNESCO practice, the results of the audit and the draft new agreement are approved by the 202nd session of the UNESCO Executive Board, which takes place between 4 and 18 October 2017. On 10 November 2017, the Agreement between UNESCO and the Republic of Bulgaria on the continuation of the Centre for a new 6-year period was signed in Paris. The circumstances contained in the Agreement "financial obligations for the State and its participation in arbitration or judicial settlement of international disputes" shall impose its ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 19 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations for Education, Science and Culture on the continuation of the activities of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as the Center under the auspices of UNESCO, signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. At its meeting held on 21 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture Mrs Amelia Gesheva Deputy Minister. The bill was presented by Mrs. Gesheva, who pointed out that it proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on condition of subsequent ratification. At present, the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe brings together 16 countries from the region of South East Europe, namely: Albania, Armenia...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u141	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u142	Following the requirements of international law and the Constitution, I have to read it, with tolerance to fellow Members of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with tolerance to Members of the European Union patriots and colleagues of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Cyprus, Moldova, Ukraine, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey, Croatia and Montenegro, and the accession of other countries is expected. According to the Complex Strategy for Category 2 Centers, each Center for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage is subject to an audit appointed by UNESCO. The audit shall be carried out every 6 years and, with satisfactory results, the UNESCO Executive Board shall decide on the renewal of the Agreement with the relevant Centre for a new 6-year period. Ms. Gesheva noted that as a result of a positive audit carried out in January 2017, a recommendation was made for the renewal of the Agreement between UNESCO and the Republic of Bulgaria for the renewal of the activities of the Centre in Sofia. She pointed out that the Agreement will help establish the position of the Republic of Bulgaria as a leading country in the field of intangible cultural heritage in the region. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 15 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on continuing the activities of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris, No 802-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris At a regular meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia. The motives were presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture. On 25 October 2010 was signed an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on the establishment in Sofia of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). The agreement is ratified by the 41st National Assembly On 16 March 2011, the Council adopted Regulation The Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe, hereinafter referred to as the Centre, brings together representatives from 16 countries in the region: Albania, Armenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Cyprus, Moldova, Ukraine, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey, Croatia, Montenegro. Pursuant to Article 12, the Centre shall promote the participation of Member States and associated UNESCO members. In accordance with art. 6 of the Agreement the objectives of the Centre are to promote the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage and to contribute to its implementation in Southeast Europe. The complex strategy for category 2 centres under UNESCO's auspices, which was approved by Resolution No 93 at the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference, provides for an audit by UNESCO of the centres to be carried out every not more than 6 years. In the event that the results of the audit so carried out are satisfactory, the UNESCO Executive Board shall decide to renew the agreement with the relevant UNESCO Category 2 Centre. In the framework of the procedure for the renewal of the Agreement between Bulgaria and UNESCO for the continuation of the Center's activities in Sofia, an audit was carried out in January 2017. It concludes that the Centre is carrying out its mission under the Agreement and in accordance with UNESCO's strategy and objectives. A recommendation was made for the renewal of the Agreement between Bulgaria and UNESCO. In accordance with established practice, the results of the audit and the draft new agreement were approved by the 202nd session of the UNESCO Executive Board, which took place on 4 October 2017. On 10 November 2017, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and UNESCO on the continuation of the Regional Centre for a new 6-year period was signed in Paris. By the Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes to provide all the financial and non-cash resources necessary for the administration and proper functioning of the Centre, including providing it with a total annual amount of at least the equivalent of EUR 200 000 to cover the costs of providing work premises and paying the salaries of the administrative staff required to carry out its functions. The Center supports Bulgaria's leading position in the field of intangible cultural heritage for the region, as well as among the countries that signed the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage. At the same time, it also contributes to promoting the ongoing process of networking experts, as well as the implementation of various joint initiatives in Southeast European countries. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which by 15 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, the Agreement, which is subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt at first reading the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u145	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I will put to the first vote our presented bill. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture UNESCO on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote on the proposed bill. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Please present the text, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u148	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris I'm the only one. It ratifies the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u149	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. You can see the voice of a schoolboy right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-29.u151	Statements, ladies and gentlemen of the House? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to a second vote the Law presented to us by the rapporteur by a single article, according to the text. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, announcements on parliamentary control to be held tomorrow, 30 March 2018, from 9:00 p.m.: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer five questions from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov, Philip Popov, Ivan Chenchev, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Mihailov and Anelia Klisarova; - Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Lyubomir Bonev and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer three questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Philip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev and Svetla Bachvarova and one question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer one question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Alexander Matsurev, Stefan Apostolov, Georgi Dinev and a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Ivan Chenchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues by the MPs Kolyo Milev, Veska Nencheva and Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Kristina Sidorova and Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva of a question by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov.. to two questions from the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Nikolay Ivanov; to three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Ivan Dimov Ivanov, Nikolay Penev and Kristian Vigenin, and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Nadya Klisurska-Zekova, Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; and Georgi Gokov; and to one question with written answer from the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Kristina Sidorova and Nadya Klisurska-Zekova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Kolyo Milev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Due to a prior commitment related to travel, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 p.m. on 30 March 2018 with parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
