ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the fourth item of yesterday's agenda: THE TERMINAL POWERS OF A MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SPECIAL DISEASE CONTROL BUILDING BUILDING BUILDINGS. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 9 March 2018. The report will introduce us to Mr. Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u2	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the termination of the powers of a member of the National Assembly Bureau of Special Intelligence Control At a meeting held on 8 March 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined a letter received from the State Commission on Information Security, No KCS-820-00-1 of 22.02.2018 informing the Commission of the decision in administrative proceedings No C-54/2017 of the Supreme Administrative Court, Sixth Division. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Commission on Information Security. The chairman of the commission, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, acquainted the MPs with the final proceedings for withdrawal of authorisation for access to classified information at the level of the "Strogo Secrets" of Mr. Georgi Gatev, acting member and vice-chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. The act on withdrawal of the authorisation issued by the State Agency "National Security" has been appealed to the State Commission on the security of information on the grounds of art. 62 et seq. of the Classified Information Protection Act. The State Commission, following administrative proceedings, ruled a decision rejecting Mr. Gatev's complaint as unfounded. An appeal against the decision of the State Commission was initiated Administrative Case No C 54/2017 of the Supreme Administrative Court, Sixth Ward. The Supreme Administrative Court ruled by its decision that it left the decision of the State Commission on the security of information, which was rejected as unfounded the complaint of Georgi Todorov Gatev, Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence means against the withdrawal of permission to access classified information at the level of the Department of National Security. The decision of the court shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal. The Chair of the Committee stated to the Members of the National Assembly that Mr. Gatev was elected as a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence by a decision to elect the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly on 19 December 2013. In accordance with art. 34c of the Special Intelligence Means Act The National Bureau is a collective body and consists of five members, including a Chairman and Vice-President, who are elected by the National Assembly for a period of five years. In the event of incompatibility of the person who has been elected a member of the National Bureau with the requirements for taking up the post, namely the revoked permission for access to classified information with the classification level of the "Strogo Secrets', the National Assembly shall terminate its powers before the expiry of the term of office under art. 36c, para. 6, p. 3 in connection with para. 2, proposal last from the Special Intelligence Act. During the discussion the MPs Mr. Velkov and Mr. Popov made an offer for admission in the meeting of Mr. Georgi Gatev, alternative to putting on the agenda of a subsequent meeting, for his hearing on issues related to his revocation of permission to access classified information with a classification level. Mr. Tsvetanov, Mr. Kasabov, Mr. Mareshki, Mr. Chukolov and Mr. Lazarov expressed their opinion on the proposal. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that, on the one hand, the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court is final and not subject to appeal, and, on the other hand, the Special Intelligence Act regulates clearly and unambiguously that, upon revocation of the permission to access classified information, the powers of a member of the National Bureau should be terminated by the National Assembly before the expiry of his term of office. Furthermore, the hearing of Mr. Gatev should be conducted with a hearing of all the authorities involved in the revocation proceedings, which would not help or lead to any other outcome other than those prescribed by the Law. In view of the considerations put forward and after a vote on the proposal so made by 2 votes for the vote, 4 votes against the motion and 2 votes abstentioned, the proposal was not accepted. In view of the state of incompatibility of Mr. Georgi Gatev with the position of member and vice-president of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence and on the grounds of early termination of his powers, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 6 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION terminating the powers of Georgi Todorov Gatev as member and vice-president of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. 6, p. 3 in connection with para. 2, proposal last from the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Georgi Todorov Gatev as a member and vice-president of the National Bureau for Control of Special Enquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. A statement? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will not make a statement, but a procedural proposal given the fact that Georgi Gatev is elected by the Bulgarian Parliament and will vote on his release, termination of his powers by parliament. I suggest that the same person be admitted to the Chamber and if necessary and willing to be heard. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u6	Madam President, I will make a reverse proposal under the procedure. Apparently, my colleague Velkov is consistent. The same proposal was made in the Commission when this issue was addressed. I read in the Report the reasons for rejecting this proposal, as there has been an act of the Administrative Court confirming the withdrawal of admission. In order to allow Mr. Gatev, to respect Mr. Velkov's proposal, and to take note, this means that we must invite the other participants in this entire procedure again to discuss the motives of the court. By the way, the Supreme Administrative Court's decision is classified, it has not arrived at the Commission either. I believe that Mr. Velkov's request is unfounded.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I will put Mr. Velkov's proposal to the vote. [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for procedure.]] What procedure? There's no such procedure! I put to the vote Mr. Velkov's proposal to invite Mr. Gatev to the Chamber. Please vote. They voted 154 MPs: for 65, against 63, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u8	Thank you, Madam President. We do not question and interpret the decision of the Supreme Court... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u9	Tell me the re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u10	So I'm asking for a re-vote, given that some of us couldn't vote. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u11	Please vote. Has everyone been able to vote yet? Okay. Vote 162 MPs: for 67, against 73, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now continuing to debate on the subject. Aren't there gonna be any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a vote on ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the powers of Georgi Todorov Gatev As member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the control of special intelligence means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. 6, p. 3 in connection with para. 2, proposal last from the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Georgi Todorov Gatev as a member and vice-president of the National Bureau for Control of Special Enquiry. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE RIGHTS AND HIS NEIGHBOURHOOD RIGHTS. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 754-01-84, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017, adopted on the first vote on 26 January 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u13	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 to 5 including which the Commission supports. They voted 124 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 22. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u14	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Toma Bikov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following amendments and additions are 1. The title is amended as follows:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The author of a musical, literary or audiovisual work which has been disclosed gives prior and written consent for the public performance of a live or by recording, for wireless broadcasting, for cable transmission or for wireless offering or by cable access to a work or part of it to an unlimited number of persons in such a way as to enable such access to be made from place to place and during time individually selected by each of them. The consent may be given individually by the author, through a registered collective management organisation or through a registered independent management company, unless otherwise provided for in the law. 3. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: The venue for the concert is provided to the organizer of the concert for use on the basis of certified copies of the contracts for the waiver of the right to public performance of the works to be performed. In the event of non-compliance with the obligation referred to in the sentence, the person providing the place of use shall be responsible jointly with the organizer of the concert to pay the public performance fees due to the authors. (4) In the case of public performance of works at concerts, the user shall provide the collective management organisation with a preliminary list of the works to be performed during the concert and their authors, and after the public performance, an accurate report with the works and their authors, as well as an accurate statement of the results of the concert. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 5 and 6...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 6. They voted 119 MPs: 91, against 20, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u16	Proposal from the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Evgeni Budinov: To create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. The first sentence shall be added to the sketch artist and the costume artist. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Evgeni Budinov: To create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 1 sentence first after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u17	Any comments on the proposals? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Evgeni Budinov. First to create § 7. They voted 106 MPs: 14 against 5, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. And the second proposal for the creation of § 8, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 12, against 13, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 words in accordance with the provisions of art. 40 "40z' is replaced by "or independent rights management companies' in accordance with the provisions of Title 2 of the Aéroports de l'Aéroports de l'Aéroports de l'Aéroports de l'Aéroports de l'Acquires.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer for § 7, which is supported by the Commission; the second text of the version proposed by the Commission in § 8. They voted 106 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 18. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u20	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports, in principle, the option I proposal, i.e. 2 which is reflected in the systematic place in art. 94a, para. 3. Proposals under Option I, p. 1 and 3 and Option II are withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Danail Kirilov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 94c, para. 2. A proposal from the MP Todor Bajchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 5. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. Point 1 (b) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94c the following amendments and additions are made: (b) in para. 7 sentence first, the text after the words.. is already amended as follows:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unaccepted t. 2, 3 and 4 are the following: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94c1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in the title after the preposition (b) in para. 1: (aa) in the introductory sentence after the preposition....................................................................................................... (bb) c. 1 the words "the authorisation of the registered organisation' shall be replaced by "the mutual authorisation of registered organisations to authorise'; (c) c. 2 the words "the mandate of the registered organisation to collect' shall be replaced by the mutual mandate of the registered organisations to collect. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94d The following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 3: (aa) a new t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. holders of rights updated to 6 months a list of their works which have authorised the registered person to carry out a collective management activity; (bb) current item 8 " 11" becomes p. 9 s 12; (b) in para. 4 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. collective management organisations authorised under a mutual representation agreement in the cases referred to in art. 94c, para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (c) the creation of para. 6: Each holder of rights or users shall have the right to direct access in order to be informed of the volume of rights granted or of the amount and payment of remuneration to each of the addressees. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 94p1 is created. The user shall form an independent part of the Autonomous and Related Rights in the price, the document certifying the payment to the end user or subscriber respectively. These are the unacceptable proposals of colleagues Todor Bajchev and a group of MPs. A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, which is generally supported by the Commission. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Toma Bikov, which the Commission supports in general in accordance with point (a) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 and 3 and does not support the proposal under paragraph 3. 1. Honourable Mr. Chairman, e.g. 1 of the proposal of colleague Bikov is as follows: The following amendments and additions shall be made to Chapter 11. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94p1, para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... After art. 93h is created Title 2 "s" with new art. Art. 94 and 94a. 94a1 "94z1: "Day the second one." Collective management of copyrights or related rights Chapter 11 "b" General Basics Art. 94. (1) Collective management of copyrights or related rights (collective management of rights) is an activity in the management of copyrights and/or related rights both on behalf of and at the expense of more than one author and/or related rights (holder of rights) for their common benefit. (2) The collective management of rights shall include: 1. withdrawal of users of copyrights and/or related rights for the use of works and other objects of protection; 2. recovery of the proceeds from the exercise of those rights, as well as from rights to receive remuneration due under this law, including compensation; 3. allocation and payment of the amounts collected from the use of the rights holders; 4. protection of the managed rights; 5. observing the way the rights are exercised. (3) It shall not be regarded as a collective management of the activities of film producers or other audiovisual works, of record producers, of radio and television organisations and of publishers, including Book publishers, musical works and periodicals, as well as persons acting as agents or intermediaries when representing authors or performers in their relations with collective management organisations. Entities of collective management of rights Art. 94a. (1) Collective management of rights may be carried out by: 1. a collective management organisation; 2. independent company for management of rights. (2) A collective management organisation shall be a non-profit association established, managed and controlled by its members, and which, under contracts with holders of rights or other collective management organisation with which a mutual representation contract is concluded, shall be empowered to carry out collective management of rights as its sole or principal activity or be entrusted to it under that law. (3) An independent management company shall be a commercial company which is not owned or controlled directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by rights holders and authorised under contracts with holders of rights to carry out collective management activities as its sole or principal activity. Contracts with holders of rights shall enter into force on the day of issue of an independent company registration certificate. (4) Collective management organisations may not pursue activities where works or other objects of protection are used within the meaning of this law. (5) Collective management organisations and independent rights management companies shall process the personal data provided to them in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commission shall be empowered to Art. 94a1. (1) The authorisation for collective management of rights shall be carried out in writing and explicitly for each category of rights, types of rights, types of works or other types of protection (types of rights, works or other objects of protection). (2) A holder of rights who is a national of another Member State of the European Union or who has established himself or resides in such a State may, by contract, authorise a collective management organisation of rights chosen by him, irrespective of the Member State in which his seat is located, to carry out collective management of the different categories and types of his rights for all his works or other objects of protection, or for part of them for his chosen territories. The collective management organisation may refuse to carry out collective management of rights for which it has received registration under art. 94b, only where there are objectively justified reasons for doing so. (3) The holder of rights may authorise different collective management organisations or independent management companies to manage different categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection. The rightholder may authorise the use of his works or other objects for non-commercial purposes on his or her own initiative by notifying the collective management organisation in which he or she is a member of the collective management organisation. In all other cases, an individual waiver of rights of use by the organisation's statutes owes a notification if the statutes so require. (4) The holder of a right may terminate the authorisation of the collective management organisation or withdraw from it the collective management of the categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection selected by it by written notice, the period of which shall not exceed 6 months. The collective management organisation may provide in its statutes that such termination or withdrawal has been effective since the beginning of the following calendar year. Where collective management of rights is compulsory, the holder of rights may authorise only another collective management organisation. (5) The holder of the rights shall retain his rights under art. 94l1, 94m, 94c1, 94t1, 94x2 and 94h1 for amounts which the collective management organisation owes to it for the use of its works or other objects of protection carried out prior to the entry into force of the termination or withdrawal or for amounts received from a permit for use granted by the organisation until the end or withdrawal is effective. (6) A collective management organisation shall not restrict the exercise of the rights under para. 4 and 5 with requirements that the management of the rights to be suspended or withdrawn be entrusted to another collective management organisation. This Regulation shall enter Art. 94a2. The provisions of this Act shall also apply to organisations and companies owned or controlled directly or indirectly, in whole or in part by collective management organisations or independent management companies when exercising collective management activities. Chapter 11?? in?? Registration Registration requirement Art. 94b. (1) Collective management of rights shall be carried out after registration by the Minister of Culture or authorised by the Minister of Culture. (2) The registration under para. 1 is timeless. Conditions for registration Art. 94b1. (1) Registration shall be made after submission of an application by: 1. a non-profit association or a commercial company registered under the Bulgarian legislation or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or of another State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. a person entitled to manage collective copyright or related rights under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or of another State of the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, or of a third country. (2) Registration shall be carried out when: 1. the applicant shall be authorised by two or more written contracts with holders of rights or by another collective management organisation under a mutual representation contract to carry out, on its behalf, collective management of rights as specified in the application; 2. The applicant shall meet the conditions laid down in art. 94f1 if the application is for a multi-terrential authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works under Chapter 11................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. the statutes, respectively the company contract or instrument of incorporation of the applicant provide for collective management of the categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection to which the application for registration relates as the sole or main activity; 4. the applicant is not in insolvency or liquidation proceedings; 5. the application for registration was filed after the expiry of 12 months after the entry into force of an order for deletion of the registration. (3) The application for registration shall be based on a model approved by the Minister of Culture and shall indicate the legal status of the applicant, the categories of rights, the types of rights, works and other objects of protection for which registration is sought and shall be subject to the conditions under art. 94c, para. 3 or Chapter 11................................................................................................... (4) The application for registration shall be accompanied by: 1. a document certifying the creation, issued within one month before the date of submission of the application for a foreign applicant; 2. a certified copy of the Rules of Procedure of the non-profit association, respectively a document for the establishment of the non-profit association for an applicant foreign person; 3. a list of members with an indication of the quality of the person concerned for the applicant non-profit association, respectively a list of the holders of rights who have conferred collective management of rights for the applicant trading company; 4. a declaration that the applicant is not in insolvency or liquidation proceedings; 5. a declaration of the address of the applicant's website; 6. a certified copy of two or more contracts with holders of rights; 7. certified copy of a representation agreement; 8. Information about the contracts under art. 94a, para. 3 which is entrusted with collective management of rights: a lawyer, categories of rights, types of rights, works and other protected areas, duration and territory for an applicant trading company; 9. certified copies of the mutual representation contracts with related foreign collective management organisations, if any, and a list of those organisations, with an indication of the time limit, territory, categories of rights, types of rights, works and other sites of protection for the applicant non-profit association; 10. a statement that the applicant is a collective management organisation eligible under art. 94f1, para. 2 when the application is made under Chapter 11.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 11. Document for payment fee. (5) The application for registration and the documents annexed thereto shall be submitted in Bulgarian. If the document under para. 4 is in a foreign language, it should be accompanied by an accurate translation into Bulgarian, carried out by a sworn translator. (6) The application for registration and the documents annexed thereto shall be submitted in writing or electronically signed with a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No), the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and the Law on Electronic Governance. Registration Art. 94c. (1) Where the application is for registration for collective management of rights under Chapter 11 of the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria and an application has been received during the registration procedure by another non-profit association, the applicant who has already been registered for collective management of such rights in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and where there is no application for collective management of such rights in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. If there is already a registered collective management organisation, the applicant shall provide a representation agreement under para. Two with the registered organization. (2) Where the application is for registration for collective management of broadcasting rights by wireless means, transmission or transmission by cable, public execution or wireless offering or by cable of access by an unlimited number of persons to a work or other object of protection, or to parts thereof in such a way as to enable such access to be made at a time and place individually selected by each of them or only for any of those rights, and for that reason there is already a registered collective management organisation, the applicant, a collective management organisation or an independent management company, shall receive registration after submitting a representation agreement with the already registered organisation. The registered organisation shall not unduly refuse to conclude such an agreement. The refusal shall not be justified where the grounds for such refusal are not related to the content of the representation agreement and/or to the registration of the collective management organisation. (3) Agreement under para. 2 is not required where the application for registration is submitted by an independent management company, and relates to collective management of public enforcement rights by sounding publicly available premises, areas and vehicles. The applicant shall maintain on its website information on the collective management of rights entrusted by the holders of rights: justice, categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection, duration and territory. (4) Where the application and the documents annexed thereto do not meet the requirements of para. Art. 1, Art. 3, Art. 1. 94b1, the applicant shall be informed thereof, providing him with a one-month period for the removal of irregularities together with instructions that production will be terminated upon their termination. (5) The application under art. 94b1, para. 3 and the documents annexed thereto shall be dealt with within two months of their submission, and in the cases referred to in para. 4 sentence 2 "from the removal of irregularities. (6) Within the term under para. 5 The Minister of Culture shall issue an order for registration or refusal of registration. (7) The Minister of Culture shall refuse registration where: 1. of the submitted documents it is established that the applicant does not meet the requirements of art. 94b1, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the content of the agreement for representation under para. 2 does not meet the requirements of art. 94c1; 3. the application was submitted before the expiry of 12 months after the entry into force of an order for deletion of the registration. (8) Refusal of registration may be contested under the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) A registration certificate shall be issued to a registered applicant. The certificate shall be unlimited and shall contain: 1. the numbers and the date of issue; 2. the name, seat and address of the management, registration and representation data of the registered legal person and the single identification code, respectively the BULSTAT code; 3. the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection to which collective management of rights relates; 4. the name of the organisation authorised by the representation agreement to manage the rights under point 4. 3 in the cases referred to in para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. the information that collective management of rights refers only to the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection listed on the registered person's website in the cases under para. 3; 6. the information that collective management also applies to the multi-terrential authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works in the cases referred to in Chapter 11. (10) In the event of a change in the circumstances recorded in the certificate issued or under art. 94b1, para. 2 and 4, the registered person, within 14 days of the change, shall notify the Minister of Culture and submit certified copies of the relevant documents and a fee document. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply accordingly. Representation Agreement Art. 94c. (1) The representation agreement under art. 94c, para. 2 contains: 1. the authorisation of the registered organisation to authorise the use of works and other objects of protection for which the applicant is entrusted collective management of rights; 2. the authorisation of the registered organisation to collect, according to its tariffs, the remuneration payable for the use under point 2. 1; 3. the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection, as well as the holders of rights to which the agreement relates; 4. the types of works and other objects of protection for which the applicant has been entrusted with collective management of rights; 5. the duration and territory of the representation; 6. the evidence from the applicant concerning the holders of rights and works and other objects of protection represented by the applicant, as well as the frequency of their updating; 7. the methods for determining the share of the remuneration collected to the applicant according to the use of the works and other objects of protection for which the collective management of rights is entrusted and the time limits for their payment to the applicant; the registered organisation shall not be responsible for the subsequent distribution of the remuneration paid to the applicant; 8. the means of exchange of information to identify works or other objects of protection and holders of rights; 9. the arrangements for the settlement of relations between the Parties and users in the event of termination or cancellation of the representation agreement; 10. the methods and period of notification to the Minister of Culture of the termination or cancellation of the representation agreement, which may not be longer than 14 days from the termination or dissolution. (2) The representation agreement may contain other arrangements. Register Art. Ninety-four years. (1) The Minister of Culture shall keep and maintain a public register of persons who have received registration under art. 94b for collective management of rights. The register shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. (2) The register under para. 1 contains two sections: 1. the first section for collective management organisations; 2. second section of the... for independent companies for management of rights. (3) In the section under para. 2, p. 1 shall be entered: 1. the number and date of the certificate; 2. the name, seat, address of the management, registration data of the legal person and the unique identifier, respectively the BULSTAT code; 3. the members of the electoral bodies of management and the representing persons; 4. telephone number, e-mail address and contact person; 5. the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection to which collective management of rights relates; 6. the collective management organisation of rights authorised under an representation agreement to authorise the use of the types of works and other objects of protection for which the registered person is entitled to collective management of rights under a collective management organisation in cases under art. 94c, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. related foreign collective management organisations with which mutual representation contracts have been concluded with reference to the categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection, duration and territory under the contract; 8. changes in the circumstances under point 2.................................................................................. 9. the basis and date of amendment of the issued certificate; 10. the deletion of the registration; 11. the information on the persons applying for registration, the number and type of documents applied. (4) In the section under para. 2, p. 2 shall be entered: 1. the number and date of the certificate; 2. the name, seat, address of the management, commercial registration data and uniform identification code; 3. representing persons; 4. telephone number, e-mail address and contact person; 5. the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection to which collective management of rights relates; 6. the collective management organisation of rights authorised under an representation agreement to authorise the use of the types of works and other objects of protection for which the registered person is entrusted an independent management company in the cases referred to in art. 94c, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. the information that collective management of rights refers only to the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection listed on the website of the registered person in the cases under art. 94c, para. 3; 8. the holders of rights which, by contract, have authorised the registered person to carry out a collective management activity; 9. changes in the circumstances of item 9. 2 - 8; 10. the basis and date of amendment of the certificate issued; 11. the deletion of the registration; 12. the information on the persons applying for registration, the number and type of documents applied. (5) In the event of a change in the circumstances recorded in the register, the Minister of Culture shall update it. Deletion of registration Art. 94d1. (1) The registration shall be deleted and the certificate shall be revoked by order of the Minister of Culture or authorised by the Minister of Culture where: 1. the registration of the legal person is deleted; 2. the registered person shall submit a written request for the deletion of the registration in full or for individual categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection; 3. In the proper order, false data shall be established in the documents annexed to the application for registration under art. 94b1, para. 4; 4. the registered person is in insolvency or liquidation proceedings; 5. the registered person.. independent company for management of rights, does not publish or systematically does not update on its website the data under art. 94c, para. 3 sentence 2; 6. the representation agreement shall be terminated or spoiled where it is a condition for registration; 7. the registered person has not concluded contracts with users for two years from the date of registration; 8. the registered person is a collective management organisation, systematically does not allocate the collected remuneration from collective management of the rights of its members according to the requirements of this law and/or the internal allocation rules under art. 94z, para. 2, p. 5; 9. it has been established by an entry into force of a judicial act that an independent management company of the registered person does not fulfil its obligations under contracts with more than three holders of rights whose rights it manages; 10. The registered person does not comply with a mandatory prescription under art. Reg. 94z, para. 9; 11. The registered person commits systematic violations of this share. (2) The order for the deletion of the registration may be challenged in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. Fees Art. 94e. For examination of applications for registration, for entry of changes in registration, for issuing a certificate to a registered person and for validating the tariff under art. 94q, including the amendment and its Appendix, shall be charged in amounts fixed by a tariff for the fees collected in the system of the Ministry of Culture approved by the Council of Ministers. Dear Mr. Chairman, here I suggest that we ask colleague Maria Ilieva to continue with the presentation of Chapter Eleven.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u21	..Chapter 11........................................................................................................... Collective management organisation Establishment Art. 94e1. (1) A collective management organisation shall be established by rights holders. (2) An publisher to whom the author has given in addition to the right to reproduce and distribute and other rights may grant the management of these rights to an organisation under para. 1. (3) The collective management organisation may not make a profit and shall be obliged to allocate and pay all amounts received from the collective management of rights between the holders of rights after holding up what is necessary for the maintenance of its activity. Membership in a collective management organisation Art. 94f. (1) Members of a collective management organisation may be natural and legal persons, holders of rights, other collective management organisations, associations of holders of rights and other organisations which meet the membership requirements laid down in the rules of the organisation. (2) The requirements for membership of a collective management organisation may not include conditions which lead to discrimination against members on the basis of their nationality, place of residence or place of establishment. (3) The collective management organisation shall publish the membership requirements on its website. (4) A collective management organisation may refuse to accept as a member a person who: 1. wish to empower the organisation to manage categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection whose management does not fall within the object of its activity; 2. shall be represented by another organisation or association of a member of the collective management organisation. (5) Where a collective management organisation refuses membership, it shall be obliged to provide the holder of the right with a reasoned written refusal. (6) The activities of the collective management organisation shall be carried out in the interests of persons whose rights it manages and shall not impose obligations which are not objectively necessary for the protection of their rights and interests or for their effective management. (7) Members of a collective management organisation shall be entitled to be informed of its activities and to participate in the decision-making process relating to that activity. (8) The collective management organisation shall establish conditions for communication with its members by electronic means. (9) The collective management organisation shall keep a record of each member and keep it up to date. Rights of holders of rights other than members of a collective management organisation Art. 94g. The provisions of art. Reg. 94f. Art. 8, Art. Art. 94, Art. 1. 94z, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 94x1 shall also apply to holders of rights which, under contract or by law, have a direct connection to a collective management organisation but are not members of it. Statute and organisation of the activity Art. 94g1. The rules of the collective management organisation shall contain: 1. the categories of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection that the organisation manages collectively; the statutes shall indicate whether the collective management rights are granted on an exclusive or non-exceptional basis; 2. the rights and obligations of the members; 3. the requirements for membership of the organization; 4. the criteria on the basis of which membership in the organisation may be refused and the order for appeal against refusals; 5. the order of admission of new members and termination of membership; 6. the procedure for convening the General Assembly, taking decisions, keeping and documenting meetings; 7. the management and supervision bodies of the organisation; 8. the conditions under which a person cannot be selected as a member of the management and supervision bodies, which may also include restrictions relating to the duration of the membership and/or the amount of sums received by the organisation; 9. the terms and procedure for the replacement of a member of the Management Board before the expiry of its term of office; 10. the possibilities for early termination of the term of office of a member of the Management Board, including the cases in which the legal persons of the Management Board are obliged to recall their representative to the Board; 11. the procedure for convening the Management Board, taking decisions, keeping and documenting its meetings; 12. the arrangements for the participation of the members in the decision-making and the criteria for limiting it; 13. the procedure for taking a decision on the conclusion of a representation agreement; 14. the termination and liquidation of the organization. General Assembly Art. 94h. (1) The General Assembly of the collective management organisation shall be convened at least once a year. (2) The General Assembly shall: 1. adopt, amend and supplement the Statutes; 2. elect and dismiss the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board; 3. approve the amount of remuneration and other benefits that the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board receive from the organisation; 4. decide to terminate the organisation; 5. adopt, amend and supplement the rules for the allocation of revenue from collective management of rights; 6. decide on: (a) the rules for the use of amounts that cannot be distributed; (b) the general investment policy regarding the revenue from collective management of rights and from the income invested from collective management of rights; (c) the common policy on deductions from revenue from collective management of rights and from any revenue from the investment of such revenue; (d) the use of the amounts that cannot be distributed; (e) risk management policy; (f) approval of any acquisition, sale or mortgage of the organisation's real estate; (g) the approval of any mergers, associations, the establishment of subsidiaries, as well as the acquisition of undertakings, shares or rights in other undertakings; (h) the approval of proposals for borrowing, lending and the provision of collateral for loans related to the organisation's activities; 7. appoint and release a registered auditor; 8. approve the annual reporting report; 9. determine the criteria, conditions and arrangements for the provision of social, cultural or educational services; 10. take other decisions provided for in the statutes. (3) The General Assembly may delegate the powers under para. 2, p. For the purposes of points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61, the following points shall be added: Participation in the General Assembly Art. 94z1. (1) Members of the collective management organisation shall be entitled to participate in the general meeting and vote unless otherwise provided in the statutes. (2) The organization may provide in its statutes restrictions on the law under para. 1 on the basis of one or two of the following criteria, provided that they are established in a fair and proportionate manner: 1. duration of membership; 2. amount of amounts received or due by the organisation. (3) Where there are different categories or groups of members in the organisation depending on the categories of rights or types of works and other objects of protection, including by genres, they shall be fair and balanced represented in the General Assembly. (4) The criteria under para. 2 shall be publicly available in accordance with art. 94th and 94th. Voting in the General Assembly Art. Ninety-four. (1) Any member of a collective management organisation entitled to participate in the general meeting shall, when voting on the decisions of the meeting, be entitled to one vote. (2) Where no other member is provided for in the statutes of the organisation, any member entitled to participate in the General Assembly may authorise another member of the Board, a natural or legal person, to be present and to vote on his behalf, provided that this does not lead to a conflict of interest. A conflict of interest shall be present whenever the authorising officer and the authorised member belong to different categories or groups of holders of rights. (3) The authorization under para. 2 shall be in writing and shall apply to the general meeting concerned. Management Board Art. Ninety-four and one. (1) The collective management organisation shall have a Management Board. (2) The composition of the Management Board and the term for which its members are elected shall be laid down in the Statutes of the Organisation. Member of the Management Board shall be represented on the Board by its legal representative or authorised natural person. (3) The Management Board shall elect from its composition a Chair. The statutes may provide that the President shall be elected by the General Assembly. (4) Each member of the Management Board shall annually submit to the General Assembly an individual statement with information on: 1. the interests related to the collective management organisation; 2. the forms of material and intangible remuneration and benefits received in the previous calendar year by the organisation, including from pension, social, cultural and other funds; 3. the amounts received in the previous calendar year by the organisation as a holder of rights; 4. the actual or potential conflict of interest between the personal interests of the declarant and those of the organisation, or between any other obligations to the organisation and obligations to other natural or legal persons. (5) Any person who is proposed to be a member of the Management Board before the election is held shall submit to the General Assembly a declaration of absence of obstacles for which it may not be chosen under the statutes and for circumstances under para. 4 t. 1 and 4. (6) The Management Board shall: 1. prepare and submit rules for the distribution of revenue from the management of rights by the organisation to the General Assembly; 2. select or appoint an administrative manager of the organisation and determine its remuneration; 3. adopt and exclude members of the organisation, unless otherwise provided in the Statutes; 4. perform other obligations provided for by law or by the statutes. Supervisory Board Art. 94k. (1) The collective management organisation shall have a supervisory board. The Supervisory Board shall not participate in the management of the organisation and shall not represent it. (2) The Supervisory Board shall consist of at least three members of the organisation. They shall be selected for a period of not more than 5 years. (3) The requirements of art. Reg. 94, para. 4 and 5 shall also apply to members of the Supervisory Board. (4) The Supervisory Board shall elect from its composition a Chair. The statutes may provide that the President shall be elected by the General Assembly. (5) The Supervisory Board shall: 1. monitor the activities and performance of the duties of the persons who manage the organization, including the implementation of the decisions of the General Assembly taken on the basis of art. 94z, para. 2, p. 1 2. exercise the powers conferred upon it by the General Assembly or the statutes of the organization pursuant to art. 94z, para. 3. (6) The Supervisory Board shall report its activities to the General Assembly at least once a year. Subsidical application Art. 94k1. The Non-Profit Legal Entities Act shall apply to the issues not addressed in this Chapter. Chapter 11 "de" "Management of revenue from collective management of rights" Collection and use of remuneration Art. 94L. (1) The collective management organisation shall specify separately in its accounts: 1. the revenue from the collective management of rights and from the investment of such revenue; 2. all own assets and income from them, from deductions for their own maintenance and from other activities. (2) The organization under para. 1 shall not make use of revenue from the collective management of rights or income from the investment of such revenue for purposes other than their distribution between the holders of rights, unless, in accordance with a decision taken pursuant to art. 94z, para. 2, p. 6 point (c) is authorised to reduce or compensate deductions for own maintenance or to use income from collective management of rights or from the investment of such revenue in accordance with a decision taken pursuant to art. 94z, para. 2, p. 6. (3) The organization under para. 1 invests the revenue from collective management of rights and the revenue from the investment of these revenues in the interest of the holders of rights it represents, in accordance with the common investment policy and the risk management policy within the meaning of art. 94z, para. 2, p. 6 letters (b) and (d) Investment shall also comply with the following requirements: 1. where there is a potential conflict of interest, the organisation shall ensure that investments are made only in the interest of the holders of rights; 2. the assets are invested in such a way as to ensure the security, quality, liquidity and profitability of the investment as a whole; 3. the assets shall be distributed in such a way as to avoid excessive dependence on an asset as well as excessive accumulation of investment risk. The amount of Art. 94l1. (1) The collective management organisation shall provide in advance to any holder of rights wishing to become a member, information on the deductions made by the organisation from the revenue from the collective management of rights and any income from the investment of such revenue. (2) The deductions shall be determined on the basis of objective criteria and shall comply with the services provided to the holders of rights, including the services provided under para. 5. (3) The deductions may not exceed the justified and documented costs of collective management of rights incurred by the organisation. (4) The requirements relating to the use and transparency of the amounts collected as deductions or deductions shall apply to any other deduction made to cover the costs of collective management of rights. (5) In the event that the organisation provides social, cultural or educational services which are financed by deductions from revenue or other revenue arising from the investment of such revenue, the services shall be provided on the basis of fair criteria in terms of access to them and their scope. Allocation of amounts due to holders of rights Art. Ninety-five feet. (1) The collective management organisation of rights or its collective member, which represents holders of rights, shall distribute and pay regularly, precisely and with due care, the amounts due under the rules on the allocation of the income from collective management of rights. The organisation or its collective member shall pay the entitled holders of the rights they represent, the amounts due as soon as possible, but no later than 30 September of the year following that in which the amounts have been collected. That period may not be respected only for objective reasons relating to the receipt of information by users, the establishment of rights, the identification of rights holders or the establishment of compliance between the information on the works used and other objects of protection with the information on the holders of rights over them. (2) The collective management organisation shall take action to identify and identify the whereabouts of the holders of rights. (3) Amounts which cannot be distributed within the term under para. 1 because the holders of rights cannot be identified or their whereabouts cannot be identified and there are no objective reasons why the time limit should not be respected shall be indicated separately in the organisation's accounts. (4) Within three months after the expiry of the term under para. 1 sentence second, the collective management organisation shall provide access to information on works and other objects of protection for which one or more holders of rights have not been identified or whose location has not been established to: 1. the holders of rights that they represent or of their collective members; 2. collective management organisations with which mutual representation contracts have been concluded. (5) The information under para. 4 includes, if possible: 1. the title of the work or object of protection; 2. the name of the holder of the right; 3. the name of the relevant publisher or producer; 4. any other relevant information available, including from the records of the holders of rights that could help identify the holder of the rights. (6) Where the holders of rights cannot be identified or their whereabouts cannot be established, within one year after the expiry of the term under para. 4, the collective management organisation shall make public on its website the information under para. 5. (7) The remuneration due to the holders of rights which cannot be allocated within three years from the end of the year in which they are collected and for which the collective management organisation has taken action under para. 2 identifying and locating right holders shall be deemed to be non-distributable. (8) The amounts not allocated shall be used by decision of the General Assembly, taken in accordance with art. 94z, para. 2, p. 6 letter................................................................................. They can be spent on financing social, cultural and educational activities for the benefit of right holders. (9) Any holder of rights may bring a claim to the collective management organisation for his due remuneration under the general claim. Chapter 11 "supplier management of rights on behalf of other collective management organisations" Duty of equal treatment Art. 94m1. The collective management organisation shall not discriminate against holders of rights whose rights it manages under a mutual representation contract, in particular with regard to the application of its tariffs, the conditions for the collection of remuneration, deductions for its own maintenance and the allocation of amounts due to holders of rights. Allowances and payment for mutual representation contracts Art. 94n. (1) The collective management organisation shall regularly, accurately and with due care allocate and pay the amounts collected from the collective management of rights or from the income from the investment of such amounts which, under mutual representation contracts, are due to other collective management organisations. (2) The collective management organisation may make deductions on the amounts under para. 1 only for its maintenance, unless the organisation with which the mutual representation contract was concluded expressly agreed to make other types of deductions. Payment of amounts collected Art. 94n1. (1) The collective management organisation shall distribute and pay the amounts under art. 94n, para. 1 no later than 30 September of the year following the year in which the amounts have been collected. (2) The term under para. 1 may not be respected only for objective reasons relating to the entry of information by users, the establishment of rights or the identification of rights holders, or the establishment of compliance between information on works and other objects of protection with information on rights holders. Allocation and payment of the amounts received Art. 94o. The collective management organisation or its collective members representing holders of rights shall allocate and pay the amounts received under art. 94n, para. 1 of the holders of rights they represent within 6 months of their receipt. That period may not be respected only for objective reasons relating to the receipt of information by users, the establishment of rights, the identification of rights holders or the establishment of compliance between information on the works used and other protected objects with the information on the holders of rights over them. Chapter 11?????????????????????? Withdrawal of rights to use Art. 94o1. (1) The collective management organisation or the independent management company shall give to users by contract the collectively managed rights to use works or other objects of protection. (2) The negotiations for the conclusion of contracts under para. 1 shall be kept in good faith. Each Party shall provide the other Party with the information necessary for the conclusion of a contract, if available. (3) The terms of the contracts under para. 1 concluded by a collective management organisation shall be based on objective and non-discriminatory criteria. (4) Where the collective management organisation gives up rights to use by means of a service on the Internet of a new kind offered on the territory of the Member States of the European Union, less than three years, the organisation shall not be bound by the agreed terms with a user for the withdrawal of rights for other types of use by means of a service on the Internet. conclusion of contracts with users Art. 94p. (1) The collective management organisation shall, within a reasonable period, respond to a request from a user for the conclusion of a collective management contract. The organisation shall communicate to the user the information necessary to prepare a draft contract. When receiving this information, the collective management organisation shall send a draft contract together with its tariff for the relevant type of use or award a reasoned written refusal. (2) The collective management organisation shall establish conditions for the exchange of information by electronic means, including information relating to user reports, for the use of the rights forfeited. (3) The collective management organisation shall provide users with a list of the holders of rights that have expressly expressed disagreement with the organisation to represent them or receive remuneration from them, the categories of rights, the types of rights, works and other objects of protection to which that disagreement relates, and the address of its website for further information, if any. Obligations of users Art. 94p1 (1) A User who has entered into a contract with a collective management organisation shall provide the information available to him for the collection, distribution and payment of the amounts due to the holders. (2) The format of the accounts and the time limits for granting them shall be determined in advance by the collective management organisation depending on the rights withdrawn and how they are used or defined in the contract with users, taking into account good practices, data from public registers and other publicly available information. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed Art. 94p. (1) The Treaties under art. Reg. 94o1 1, concluded with a collective management organisation, provide remuneration for holders of rights on the basis of tariffs. Contract tariffs must take into account the economic value of the use of rights in commercial activities, taking into account the nature and extent of the use of works and other objects of protection, as well as the economic value of services provided by the collective management organisation and treating users of the same category equally. Tariffs shall not be mandatory when negotiating the use of stage works within the meaning of art. 3, para. 1, t. 3. On request, the collective management organisation shall inform users of the economic criteria used in the fixing of tariffs. (2) Tariffs under para. 1 shall be drawn up after prior consultation with the representative user organisation for each use, if any. A representative user organisation is an organisation that represents users with a higher market share for the relevant use of the category and type of rights and, where there are no objective data on this share, a higher number of users and its statutes provide for negotiations with collective management organisations. (3) The discussion under para. 2 shall begin on a proposal from the collective management organisation to the representative organisation of users accompanied by a draft tariff economic justification. Upon agreement, the Parties shall sign a written tariff agreement. The collective management organisation shall submit a written application to the Minister of Culture for tariff validation. The tariff shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Culture or a Deputy Minister authorised by him on the basis of the written tariff agreement. (4) When within 9 months of receipt of the proposal under para. No agreement shall be reached, the collective management organisation shall submit a written application to the Minister of Culture for tariff validation. The application shall be accompanied by the documents referred to in para. 13. The application shall be examined by a committee appointed by or authorised by the Minister of Culture on a case-by-case basis. The Commission shall be appointed for a period of not more than three months and shall consist of 5 members, each representative proposed by the collective management organisation and by the representative organisation of users, and three experts approved jointly by organisations. (5) Within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 4 The Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall send an invitation to the collective management organisation and to the representative organisation of the users for the designation of members of the committee pursuant to para. 4. Where, within 20 days of receiving the invitation, organisations do not meet any of the requirements of para. 4th sentence, fourth sentence, the Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall appoint a representative of the organisation which has not made a proposal among the persons who are legally entitled to represent it, respectively, shall complement the Commission with experts from the list of mediators under art. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union does not consider that there is a need for the Court of Justice of the European Union to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1. The Minister of Culture shall set the date for the first meeting of the Commission. The Commission is working on rules adopted by it. The three experts shall be entitled to remuneration which shall be paid equally by the organisations in the amounts determined by agreement between them. (6) The meetings of the committee shall be regular if there are at least 4 members present. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of not less than 4 votes by the members of the committee. (7) The Commission shall examine the application under para. 4 and the documents attached to it and shall take a decision according to the order of para. 6 for the final version of a tariff. The Commission shall immediately forward the decision by tariff to the Minister of Culture. The Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him by order shall confirm the tariff on the basis of the decision within 14 days of receipt. (8) Where the Commission does not decide to establish a tariff within the period under para. 4th sentence fourth and in the order of para. 6, immediately inform the Minister of Culture, which shall terminate the procedure within 14 days of notification. (9) Where there is no representative organisation of users for the appropriate use of the relevant category or type of rights, the collective management organisation shall submit a written application to the Minister of Culture. The application shall be accompanied by the documents referred to in para. 13. Within 14 days of receipt of the application, the Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall publish the draft tariff, economic justification and methodology thereto on the website of the Ministry of Culture. Within 30 days of the publication of the draft tariff, interested parties may submit reasoned written proposals. Within 14 days after the expiry of the period referred to in the sentence, the Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall send the proposals, if any, to the collective management organisation, which shall, within 14 days of receipt, submit a reasoned written opinion. Within 30 days of receipt of the opinion referred to in the fifth sentence, the Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister by order shall confirm the tariff or refuse its validation. (10) The wages applied to the contracts under art. Reg. 94o1, para. 1 concluded with the Bulgarian National Radio and the Bulgarian National Television, for the works and other objects of protection used by them are determined after negotiation with them separately and must comply with the conditions of para. 1 sentences first and second, and treat users of the same category equally. The remuneration shall be subject to para. 8. (11) Tariffs may be amended and supplemented on a proposal from: 1. a collective management organisation; 2. representative user organisation: (a) where the tariff is established by the order of para. 9, or (b) with a reasoned request for an amendment or supplement of the tariff by the Minister of Culture or authorised by the Minister of Culture when 5 years have elapsed since the entry into force of the tariff or if force majeure or ineligible; in this case, the order for admission of an amendment or supplement to the tariff shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code and the court shall rule within 6 months. (12) For the amendments and additions of tariffs shall apply respectively para. 8. The amendments and additions to the tariffs shall be validated by the Minister of Culture or authorised by the Minister of Culture. (13) In the cases under para. 3, 4, 9, 10 and 11 to the application shall apply: 1. draft tariff or draft amendment or supplement; 2. a decision of the competent authority of the collective management organisation for the adoption of the project under point 2. 1; 3. contract with the Bulgarian National Television, Bulgarian National Radio, agreement with representative organization of users under para. 3 or evidence that the negotiations under para. 3 have completed without agreement; 4. Declaration by para. 9 that there is no representative user organisation for the relevant use of the category or type of rights; 5. a methodology for determining the amount of the proposed remuneration corresponding to the economic value of the rights for the particular type of use and the economic value of the services provided by collective management organisations; 6. economic justification of the project under point 6. 1; 7. Document for payment fee. (14) Where the application is not accompanied by the documents under para. 13, the Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall notify the collective management organisation and provide a 14-day period for the removal of irregularities with an indication that the procedure will be terminated upon their termination. (15) The order of the Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister for validating the tariff or for refusing to confirm the tariff, including amending or supplementing the tariff and terminating the procedure, shall be subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. (16) Until the confirmation of a tariff or an amendment and addition to it, the user shall pay remuneration for the works and other objects of protection used under the last contract concluded with the collective management organisation, or if there is no such Representation of collective management organisations and independent management companies Art. 94p1. (1) A collective management organisation and an independent management company may grant to a user only rights for which they are expressly authorised for collective management by or represent them under a mutual representation contract or under a representation agreement. (2) A collective management organisation and an independent rights management company may only grant rights to a user within the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection referred to in the certificate issued under art. 94c, para. 9. (3) Where the law provides for the authorisation to be granted only through a collective management organisation, any organisation registered for the management of the rights concerned shall act on behalf of holders of rights which are not its members or shall not be represented by it under a mutual representation contract or by a representation agreement. In such cases, the collective management organisation shall settle its relations with each of the holders of rights in the same way as its members. (4) A collective management organisation may receive and pay to holders of rights which are not or are not represented by it, remuneration due to them as a result of the distribution of remuneration received by the organisation for the type of use concerned, if this does not conflict with an representation agreement, or to the extent that some of those rights holders have not expressed explicit and written disagreement about it. Such disagreement shall have effect from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which it was made. (5) In cases relating to the management of rights for the public execution of a live or by record, for wireless transmission, transmission or transmission by cable, or for the provision of wireless or cable access to works or other objects of protection, or parts thereof, in such a way as to enable such access to be made during and at a place individually chosen by each of them, or only to any of those rights, the conclusion of a contract with the first registered organisation that manages those rights, and the payment of remuneration agreed under that contract, shall exempt users, both in respect of the members of that organisation and with regard to all other holders of rights for the same categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection, except for those holders of rights expressly and in writing, who have expressed their disagreement with that organisation. Such disagreement shall have effect from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which it was made. Representation in the protection of rights Art. 94c. (1) The collective management organisation shall have the right to represent its members, other collective management organisations with which mutual representation contracts have been concluded and their members before all judicial and administrative bodies in the protection of their collective management rights. (2) For the protection of the rights under para. 1 collective management organisations may, on their own behalf, take legal action, including to bring claims under art. 95, 95a and 95b and to request the imposition of measures under art. 95e, 95f, 96b and 96d, and apply art. 95c, para. 2. Chapter 11.................................................................................................... Transparency and accountability Information to be provided to holders of rights Art. 94c1. (1) The collective management organisation and the independent management company shall provide, at least once a year, to the holders of rights to which income from the collective management of rights or payments have been made during the relevant period, information on: 1. the data provided by the holder of the right to use for the purpose of identifying and identifying its location; 2. the revenue accruing from collective management of rights to the rightholder; 3. amounts paid to the holder of rights by category of rights and by type of use; 4. the period during which the use for which revenue has been accrued and amounts paid to the holder of rights has taken place, unless the organisation or company, for objective reasons relating to the receipt of information from users, cannot provide that information; 5. deductions for collective management of rights for the respective type of use; 6. deductions made for another purpose, including deductions for social, cultural or educational services due under other laws; 7. the income from collective management of rights which have been charged but not paid to the holder of rights. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be provided by the collective management organisation to its collective members representing holders of rights among which they allocate revenue from collective management of rights. The information shall be provided by the organisation when it has charged revenue from collective management of rights and if the collective members do not have it. The information under para. 1 shall be granted at least once a year to the holders of the rights they represent and to which income from collective management of rights has been accrued or to which payments have been made during the period to which the information relates. Information provided to other collective management organisations Art. 94. The collective management organisation shall provide at least once a year to collective management organisations with which mutual representation contracts have been concluded, information in electronic form for the relevant period, which shall include: 1. the accrued revenue and amounts paid from the collective management of rights managed under the mutual representation contract by categories and types of rights, as well as any accrued but outstanding revenue from collective management of rights; 2. The deductions referred to in Article 2. 94n, para. 2: (a) for own maintenance; (b) other deductions; 3. information on contracts concluded with users and refusals to conclude such contracts which affect the collective management of rights under the mutual representation contract; 4. the decisions of the General Assembly concerning the collective management of rights under the mutual representation contract. Information provided on request to holders of rights, other collective management organisations or users Art. 94st1. (1) The collective management organisation shall, after receiving a duly justified request from another collective management organisation with which a mutual representation contract has been concluded, from a holder of rights or from a user, provide, by electronic means and within a reasonable period, at least information on the works and other objects of protection it represents, on the rights it manages directly or under mutual representation contracts and on the areas covered. (2) Where due to the scope of the activities of the organization, works or objects cannot be established, the organisation shall be obliged to communicate in accordance with para. 1 the types of works and other objects of protection which it represents, the rights it manages and the areas covered. (3) Paragraph 1 and 2 shall apply respectively to independent management companies. Information to be made publicly available Art. Ninety-four. (1) The collective management organisation shall disclose at least the following information on its website: 1. the content of the statutes; 2. conditions for termination of the authorisation for collective management of rights if they are not included in the Statutes; 3. standard contracts for the waiver of collectively managed rights and applicable tariffs, including the envisaged concessions; 4. a list of the members of the electoral bodies of management and supervision and the representing persons; 5. the common policy for the allocation of amounts due to holders of rights; 6. the common policy on deductions for own maintenance; 7. the common policy on deductions from income from collective management of rights and income from investment of income from collective management of rights, including deductions from social, cultural or educational services other than deductions from own maintenance; 8. a list of mutual representation contracts and representation agreements as well as the names of the organisations or independent companies with which they have been concluded; 9. the common policy on the use of amounts that cannot be distributed; 10. list of members; 11. a list of the holders of rights that have expressed explicit disagreement with the organisation to represent them or receive remuneration from them, as well as the categories of rights, types of rights, works and other objects of protection to which that disagreement relates; 12. a list of the holders of rights for which remuneration is allocated and not sought; 13. the order to deal with complaints and dispute resolution under art. 94h1, 94h2 and 94h1. (2) Independent rights management companies shall disclose on their website at least the information under para. 1, t. 1.. 3 t. 5 "7" and the information under art. 94c, para. 3. (3) Collective management organisations and independent management companies shall keep up-to-date the information under para. 1 and 2. Annual reporting report Art. Ninety-four-one. (1) The collective management organisation shall disclose annually, but not later than 30 August, an annual reporting report. The report shall be published on the organisation's website for a period of not less than 5 years. (2) The annual reporting report shall contain the information set out in Annex No 2. (3) The report under para. 1 necessarily includes a separate statement of the use of the amounts withheld for social, cultural and educational services. The report shall contain the information set out in Section III of Annex No 2. (4) The accounting information contained in the annual reporting report shall be subject to independent financial audit by one or more statutory auditors. The auditor's report must be included in the annual reporting report in full. Accounting information is the information from the annual financial statement referred to in Section I. 1 of Annex 2 as well as the financial information referred to in Section I, p. 7 and 8 and Section II of that Annex. Chapter 11............................................................................................ Multi-tertorial authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works General Art. Ninety-four. (1) Multi-terrential authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works by copyright holders through collective management organisations registered in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried out in accordance with this Chapter. (2) The provisions of this Chapter shall also apply to the authorisation of use on the Internet of literary works related to music and to musical works included in a film or other audiovisual work. (3) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to authorisations for the use on the internet of musical works in the form of scores. Member States shall ensure that the Art. 94f1. (1) A multi-terrential authorisation of the use of musical works on the internet shall be carried out only by a collective management organisation which can process data electronically in an efficient and transparent manner and which has sufficient information to identify the repertoire and monitor its use, issue invoices to users, collect rights management revenue and distribute the amounts due to right holders. (2) The collective management organisation shall be able to: 1. establish precisely, in whole or in part, the musical works which it is authorised to represent; 2. establish precisely, in whole or in part, in respect of each relevant territory the rights and their carriers for any musical work or part thereof which is authorised to represent; 3. use unique codes to identify the holders of rights and musical works, taking into account, if possible, the standards and practices applied at international level or at European Union level; 4. use appropriate means to identify and remove, quickly and effectively, discrepancies in the data available to other collective management organisations which authorise multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works. Transparency of repertoire information when authorising multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works Art. 94F2. (1) A collective management organisation which authorises multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works shall send to the service providers on the internet, to the right holders it represents and to other collective management organisations up-to-date information allowing the identification of the music repertoire it represents. The information shall be sent by electronic means upon receipt of a reasoned request and shall include: 1. the musical works it represents; 2. the rights it represents, in whole or in part; 3. the areas covered. (2) The collective management organisation may take appropriate measures to protect the integrity and accuracy of the data it provides under para. 1 as well as control of their reuse or protection of information that may have commercial significance. Accuracy in the information about the multi-dimensional repertoire Art. 94x. (1) The collective management organisation which authorises multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works shall, within a reasonable period, make the necessary adjustments to the data or to the available information under art. 94f1, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 94F2 where the holders of rights, other collective management organisations and Internet service providers consider, on the basis of a reasoned request, evidence that the data or information relating to their rights to musical works for use on the Internet is incorrect. (2) The collective management organisation shall provide to the holders of rights whose musical works are included in its own repertoire and to the holders of rights entrusted to it the management of their rights in musical works for use on the Internet, the possibility of sending it electronically information on the works, rights over them and territories in respect of which they have granted it management rights. Information shall be provided in accordance with the standards and practices applied to data exchange at international level or at European Union level. (3) Where a collective management organisation authorises another organisation to authorise multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works in accordance with art. 94w and 94w1, the authorised organisation shall apply the provision of para. 2 as regards holders of rights whose musical works are included in the repertoire of the authorising organisation, unless otherwise agreed between the two organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u22	Mrs. Ilieva, I'll just give you a second to catch your breath. We have visitors from the town of Godech. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u23	Exchange of statements and invoices Art. 94x1. (1) A collective management organisation which has authorised multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works shall monitor their use by service providers. (2) The collective management organisation shall provide Internet service providers with the opportunity to take into account electronically the actual use of the rights granted to them and the suppliers shall be obliged to take into account the actual use of the works. The organisation shall propose the use of at least one reporting methodology that is consistent with international standards or practices used in the exchange of such data by electronic means. Where the organisation allows reporting using an electronic data exchange industry standard, it may refuse to accept a report from a non-compliant supplier. (3) A collective management organisation shall issue invoices to internet service providers by electronic means by proposing the application of at least one format that is consistent with international standards or practices. The invoice must allow the identification of the works and the rights granted to them on the basis of the data under art. 94f1, para. 2 as well as their actual use, if possible, on the basis of the information submitted by the service provider and the format used. The supplier may not refuse acceptance of the invoice because of its format, provided that the collective management organisation has used a billing standard adopted in practice. (4) The collective management organisation shall issue an invoice to the supplier precisely and within a reasonable period of time after receiving the statement of the actual use of the right to the musical product concerned, except where this is not possible for reasons due to the supplier. (5) The collective management organisation shall apply appropriate procedures enabling suppliers to challenge the accuracy of the invoice, including when receiving invoices from one or more organisations for the same rights to the same work. Payment with holders of rights Art. 94x2. (1) A collective management organisation which authorises multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works shall allocate the remuneration received to right holders precisely and within a reasonable period of time after it has received information on the use of the works, except where this is not possible for reasons due to the service provider. (2) The collective management organisation shall provide to the holders of rights together with each payment under para. 1 at least the following information: 1. a period during which the use for which remuneration is due has taken place and the territories where such use has taken place; 2. the amounts collected, deductions made and allocations for each type of right used on any musical work for which the holders of rights have authorised the organisation to represent them in whole or in part; 3. the amounts collected, the deductions made for the management of the rights and allocations in respect of each service provider. (3) Where a collective management organisation authorises another collective management organisation to authorise multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works under art. 94w and 94w1, the authorised organisation shall allocate the amounts referred to in para. 1 and sends the information under para. 2 to the authorising organisation responsible for the subsequent allocation of those amounts and the provision of information to the holders of rights, unless otherwise agreed between the two organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Mrs. Atanasova, you continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u25	Agreements between collective management organisations Art. Ninety-four. (1) The representation agreement between collective management organisations by which one organisation authorises another organisation to authorise the multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works from its repertoire may only be on an outstanding basis. The authorised organisation shall manage the rights received without discrimination. (2) The authorising collective management organisation shall inform its members of the terms of the agreement under para. 1, including for its duration and for the costs of services provided by the authorised organisation. (3) The authorised collective management organisation shall inform the authorising entity of the conditions under which it authorises use on the internet of the authorising organisation's repertoire, including for the types of rights and works, the amount of remuneration, the duration of the authorisation, payment deadlines and the areas covered. Obligation to represent another collective management organisation Art. 94w1. (1) In the event that a collective management organisation which does not authorise or propose the granting of authorisation for a multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works included in its own repertoire makes a proposal to another collective management organisation for the conclusion of an representation agreement with regard to this repertoire, the organisation to which the proposal is addressed shall accept it if it already provides or proposes the granting of an authorisation for the same category of rights for the multi-tertorial use on the internet of musical works by the repertoire of one or more other collective management organisations. (2) The organization which has received a proposal under para. 1, responds to the proposal in writing and immediately. (3) The authorised organisation shall manage the repertoire of the authorising entity under the same conditions under which it manages its own repertoire. (4) The authorised organisation shall include the repertoire of the authorising organisation in all proposals for granting authorisations, which it shall send to the service providers on the Internet. (5) The authorised organisation shall not make deductions for its own maintenance greater than usual for the performance of the authorisation. (6) The authorising organisation shall provide the authorised organisation with all information on its own music repertoire, which would be necessary for the multi-terrential authorisation of the use of musical works on the internet. In the event that such information proves insufficient or in a form which would not allow the authorised organisation to act in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter, it will be able to do what is necessary to meet those requirements at the cost of reasonable costs or to exclude from the scope of the agreement those works for which the information is insufficient or cannot be used. Exception for radio and television organisations Art. Ninety-four o'clock. This Chapter shall not apply to collective management organisations where they grant authorisation for multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works of radio or television organisations whose programmes are used on the Internet at the same time or after their initial broadcast, including in materials such as preliminary reviews and self-promotional communications that are ancillary to initial radio or television programmes. Chapter 11.............................................................................. Dispute resolution Submission of complaints and alerts Art. 94h1. (1) The collective management organisation shall ensure that its members and other organisations with which mutual representation contracts are concluded, the application of procedures for the submission of complaints and alerts, as well as the resolution of disputes relating to the authorisation for collective management of rights, withdrawal or termination, the conditions for membership, the collection of remuneration due to the holders of rights, their deductions and their distribution. (2) The collective management organisation shall respond in writing to any complaint under para. 1 within one month of receipt. The answer can also be provided by electronic means. The refusal to respect the appeal shall be reasoned. Mediation Art. 94ch2. (1) Disputes under Chapter 11 may be settled through mediation relating to a collective management organisation established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria which authorises or proposes to authorise multi-terrential use on the internet of musical works on the application of: 1. Articles 94o1, 94f2, 94x and 94x1 with actual or potential service provider; 2. Articles 94f2, 94w1, with one or more holders of rights; 3. Articles 94f2 "94w1" with another collective management organisation. (2) Other disputes concerning the enforcement of the law may also be resolved through mediation, other than those under para. 1, between collective management organisations and: 1. its members; 2. holders of rights; 3. representative user organisations; 4. users. Mediation procedure Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (1) Mediator under art. 94x2 may only be a person who fulfils the conditions of the Mediation Act, entered in the single register of mediators to the Minister of Justice, has special knowledge in the field of copyright and related rights and is listed in the special list of mediators to the Minister of Culture, agreed with the registered organizations under art. 94b and representative user organisations. (2) The mediation procedure shall be conducted under the order of the Mediation Act. (3) In the event of a dispute between a collective management organisation and a user or a representative user organisation, the initiation of a mediation procedure shall not waive the obligation of the user to pay remuneration for the rights forfeited for the relevant use under the last agreed remuneration or, if not, under the organisation's tariff. Dispute resolution Art. 94x1. The filing of a complaint under art. 94h1 or the initiation of mediation procedure under art. Art. 94h2 or procedure under art. 94q shall not prevent either Party from bringing the dispute to the court or from submitting a request to the Commission for the protection of competition. Chapter 11???? Control of collective management of rights Control Art. 94x2. (1) The Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall exercise preliminary, current and subsequent control over the legality of the manner in which collective management of rights is carried out. (2) The control under para. 1 shall be carried out by checks in accordance with Article 1. 94z. Control actions Art. 94z. (1) The Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him may request from a collective management organisation or an independent collective management company information relating to the collective management of rights activity and the necessary documents in connection with the implementation of the control. The Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall set a time limit for the submission of the information. (2) Where there is evidence of a breach of that share of a collective management organisation or an independent collective management company, the Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall award an inspection. (3) The check under para. 2 shall be carried out by officials designated by the Minister of Culture or authorised by the Minister of Culture. (4) Officials under para. 3 shall be entitled to require: 1. consultation, certified copies of documents and other information, including on an electronic medium within their specified time limits; 2. the necessary data, information, explanations and other information relating to the activities of collective management of rights. (5) Officials under para. 3 are required to: 1. reflect precisely the facts of the verification carried out; 2. protect the professional and commercial secrets which have become known to them in connection with the inspection carried out; 3. do not disclose data from the verification; 4. process personal data in compliance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (6) The managing bodies of the inspected organisation or company shall provide assistance to the officials under para. 3 when carrying out the verification, provide the requested documents and evidence and provide appropriate premises and technical means for carrying out the verification, including the use of telecommunications means. The managing authorities shall not rely on any commercial or other law-protected secret when carrying out the verification. When providing information to officials, the management bodies shall indicate the materials which they consider to contain a commercial or other secret protected by law and shall be treated as confidential by verifiers. In this case, the materials shall be provided and the data considered confidential shall be deleted. (7) The draft verification report shall be served on the collective management organisation or on the independent collective management company. The organisation or company may submit written observations and additional evidence on the report within 14 days of its service. (8) The Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him on the basis of the draft report, opinions and additional evidence under para. 7 approves a final report. The final report shall be sent to the collective management organisation or to the independent collective management company and shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. (9) In the event of a breach of that share of a collective management organisation or an independent collective management company, the Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall issue a mandatory prescription and set an appropriate deadline for its implementation. The prescription shall be served on the person and published on the website of the Ministry of Culture within three days of its issue. (10) The mandatory prescription under para. 9 may be challenged by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. Exchange of information Art. 94z1. (1) The Ministry of Culture shall be responsible within a reasonable period of time for any reasoned request received by the relevant authority of another Member State of the European Union designated to exercise control over the activities of collective management of rights for the activities of registered collective management organisations. (2) Where the Ministry of Culture considers that a collective management organisation established in another Member State of the European Union but operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria does not comply with the provisions of its national legislation on collective management of rights, the Ministry may send the necessary information to the competent authority of that State, accompanied, if necessary, by a request to that authority to take appropriate measures within the limits of its powers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u26	Before we begin with § 10, let us also allow for a statement. Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to present the reasons for our proposals, namely: under art. 94c, para. 2, p. 2. The reasons with which we propose are as follows: in the proposed initial version it is not taken into account that the registration organisations of independent companies can be set up under the Commercial Law, except by Statute and by Company Contract, or by the founding act for limited liability companies, or respectively for a single limited liability company. Through this change, we aim to introduce a level playing field between business entities and, in particular, those working in the area of the application of copyright and related rights. In this way, we avoid the dominant position created by some legal entities and allow others, in the case of professional competence on their part, to participate in this sector. The aim is to break down the existing monopoly and create a favourable environment for the development of this business environment, which will help protect the rights and interests of both those exercising them and consumers of those rights. The text proposed here enables all collective management organisations, if they wish to empower each other for the management of foreign rights, under mutually agreed conditions. We are making this proposal in order to align the working conditions of collective management organisations and avoid unfair competition between them in the industry. Another goal of our present proposal is the avoidance of a legal monopoly in private benefit, as by the way, according to the current legislation of the currently registered collective management organisations, which is unacceptable under the Constitution of Bulgaria. The proposed changes avoid contradiction with art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the rules on competition of the European Union. Or, if I have to summarize, we avoid concreteising a monopoly of registered collective management organisations already. Under art. 94 and the created new item. 8 Our motives are as follows: in art. 94d is the content of the register which is maintained by the Minister of Culture and consists of two sections. In para. The content of the register for collective management of rights shall be determined and in para. 4 for independent management companies. Although it is essential, in para. 3 is not provided for the entry of the holders of rights and their works, but in para. 4 there is no updated list of the titles of their works, the period, the territory and other conditions for which the rights have been granted. The practice we have and exist at this time shows that very often collective management organisations do not support or neglect their obligation to update the list of authors and works they represent. In such a set-up, it is possible that an organisation, knowingly or not, collects revenue from the management of rights that are not granted to it. This clarification is important in order to eliminate any abuse of the volume of rights represented. On the other hand, any author of an appropriate right can verify whether or not he is represented, whether he is conscious or not. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94r we propose to create a new para. 5, the reasons for this are as follows: we do not agree with the tariffs to be regarded as private civil-law relations that do not need state regulation and to be left to free negotiation. Any mandatory payment standard introduced by the State, even for a private benefit, should be regulated by the State with regard to the rate level, existence or prohibition of additional conditions and other related circumstances. We must not give in and let the right of power act, and it must also be from the positions of business. [[The President signals that time is over.]] I'll be brief. The idea is for the Minister of Culture not to interfere in determining the size of the copyrights collected by the CUP (the Control of Rights) when copyrights are not regulated by this. A new paragraph must therefore be included in which the Minister of Culture or a person authorised by him to sanction the application of tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to present briefly § 9 in this bill that we are discussing at the moment. It is one of the key paragraphs not only in the draft itself, but also in the implementation of its objective to implement the requirements of the 2014 Directive. This paragraph, as you have seen, could be a separate law, and it was proposed as a draft separate law in the Forty-third National Assembly. The main change in the collective management regime is the inclusion of a new entity of the rights management companies. For this reason, the framework in the matter of collective management of rights has been developed again. My colleague Mitev and my colleagues from the opposition tabled proposals that had legal and technical importance and the aim was to improve the individual editorials. One of the issues at issue was also noted in the speech of the previous speaker. This was the question of whether the Minister of Culture should remain in the procedure to form and determine the tariffs on which their copyrights and related rights are paid by users. After long debates and the working group, and the Committee on Legal Affairs at second reading, together with the participation of the Ministry of Culture, we came to this consensus that the Minister of Culture should continue to participate in this tariff procedure and finally approve tariffs, which, as well as my colleague Bajchev mentioned, in fact, in most cases, in the desired part of the cases, represent and reflect the agreement of both parties in this process of collective management organisations in respect of the respective types of rights and representative organisations of users. I do not know if you have had the opportunity, whether you have looked at tariffs on the website of the Ministry of Culture or on the websites of collective management organisations, respectively, to see that they are actually a quasi-fifty document that is the result of an agreed agreement. The most complicated were the debates regarding the regime in art. Reg. 94r. 11. There, we have provided for a complex system in which representative user organisations can also ask for a tariff adjustment, with which we approached and to a certain extent comparable them to the other participants in the process. I won't be able to explain in detail all the more substantial changes. I see time is coming, and I have three editorial proposals to make. The first editorial proposal is regarding art. 94b1, para. 4 t. 8........................................................................................................... The second editorial proposal is in art. 94c, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence of the word "Supporter'. Please note that under para. Article 11 94p. I'm making a key editorial proposal. I am referring to a key one, because this was the subject of a very serious debate, by suggesting that the words..5 years..... are replaced by the words..................................................................................... That is, the period for which it is required to act to have entered into force the tariff to be reduced from 5 years to 3 years. Then it is permissible to request an admission order from the Minister of Culture, where we have also given shorter time limits for administrative and judicial proceedings. Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the delay in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u30	We've seen you make suggestions that are important.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u32	Could you give me one more time to see if I've got this right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u33	Art. 94b1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u34	You have a replacement in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u35	No, in art. 94b1 is in para. 4 t. 8 The word "supplier" is replaced by...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u36	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94b1,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u37	...the word "supplier" is replaced by...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u38	Yeah, in exchange for the text. And then what?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u39	94c.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u40	You've got a replacement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u41	Sentence 2 - the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u42	In 94p "replaced" in the text
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u43	This is the third one. 11... 5
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u46	- What's the line? Statements? There are no speeches. We call off the debate and move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Todor Bajchev and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission, namely: 1, points 2, 3 and 4. They voted 114 MPs: 22, against 25, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov in the part which is not supported by the Commission, namely the proposal under point. 1. They voted 112 MPs: 3 against 19, 90 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposals that have been made for editorial amendments to the text by the MP Danail Kirilov. Do they have to be read? The change is in art. 94b1, para. 4 t. 8 - Change in the text. It was presented by Mr. Kirilov. In 94c, para. 3 s a replacement in the text which was presented by Mr. Kirilov. In 94p "replaced" in the text of.. 5 They voted 114 MPs: 95 against 19, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 9, with the amendments just adopted to the text on a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov, which are in 94b1, 94c, 94q. Vote 112 MPs: 91, against 20, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I suggest that after the break we proceed. We're interrupting for a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let's move on! Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. Vote 74 MPs: 66, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u50	Paragraph 17, import text. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 97 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) To be created t. 4a: 4a. organise a public performance of live works; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. use by public execution of works recorded, performances, recordings, recordings of films or other audiovisual works, radio programmes or television programmes; c) in the text after c. 16 after the word "punishment" a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be deleted and sentences shall be created second and third: the nature of the infringement, regardless of whose ownership it is, may be withdrawn for the benefit of the State. The items taken shall be transferred to the Ministry of Interior for destruction. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The collective management organisation of rights or an independent management company operating in violation of art. Reg. 94r1, para. 1 or 2, a penalty of 5 thousand to 20 thousand BGN is imposed 3. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The Sanction under para. 1 or 2 shall also be imposed on a person who does not provide evidence within the prescribed time limit for the implementation of a forced administrative measure under art. 96e. 4. In para. 12 words................................................................................. 58, para. Art. 4, Art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 5. They're creating an al. 14, 15 and 16: To a collective management organisation or an independent management company which does not comply with a mandatory prescription under art. Reg. 94z, para. 9, a penalty of five thousand to twenty-five thousand BGN is imposed. In case of repeated and any subsequent infringement within one year of the imposition of the previous penalty, the penalty referred to in the sentence shall first be imposed in a double amount. (15) A person exercising a collective management activity without registration or whose registration has been deleted shall be subject to a fine or a penalty of two thousand to twenty thousand BGN. (16) A person who fails to fulfil an obligation under art. Reg. 94z, para. 6 or art. 98b, a fine or a penalty of five hundred to five thousand BGN is imposed
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 17 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 75, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u52	Proposal by the National Representative Toma Bikov for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 98c1: Art. 98c1. (1) The mayors of municipalities shall exercise control over the commercial sites and tourist sites under art. 3, para. 2 of the Tourism Act on pre-arranged rights to public execution live or by recording works, recorded performances, recordings, film recordings or other audiovisual works or parts thereof. (2) The persons who manage commercial sites and tourist sites under art. 3, para. 2 of the Tourism Act, upon request at least once a year, provide the mayors of municipalities with evidence of their rights to public execution. (3) In the event of violation of para. 2 of the persons who manage the commercial or tourist sites under art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on Tourism, a penalty of 2 thousand to 10 thousand BGN is imposed. (4) The violations shall be established by officials appointed by order of the mayor of the municipality. (5) The Penal Orders shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality. (6) The property penalties under para. 3 shall be implemented in accordance with Article 3. 98c, para. 2 sentence first and para. 3. Fifty per cent of the proceeds from the property penalties are paid to the account of the National Fund of Culture and the remaining revenues from the budget of the municipality concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u53	Are there any speeches on the proposed new paragraph? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u54	Mrs. Chairman! That was a very controversial provision. It entrusts new powers to the mayors of municipalities in relation to the control of compliance with copyright law in respect of sites governed by the Tourism Act. We discussed very much how far the municipalities would take this responsibility. Plus here we have a negative opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. And since I have expressed what the opposition should have said, to say what the solution is. I will make a proposal in the "Transitional and final provisions" to postpone the effect of the entry into force of this provision for a period of six months so that collective management organisations, together with municipalities, can stick to their activities, provide training to relevant municipal officials, so that they can apply the provisions of this law, which is also for the benefit of municipalities. In the sense that half of the revenue is for the municipalities and the other half of the revenue is for the National Fund of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We are voting on the text of the new § 18 in the version of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 77, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u56	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 18, which becomes § 19. "Seriously, I'm The following amendments shall be made to the Additional Provisions: 1. In § 2, t. 9 the words "organization" under art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament 2. In § 5 para. 2 is amended as follows: Where use is negotiated through a collective management organisation or an independent management company, the remuneration shall be determined by agreement between the organisation or company and users or their representative organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u57	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote § 18, which becomes § 19. 88 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u58	The Commission proposes to create new § 20 and 21: .................................................................................. The Annex to art. 71d, para. 2 after the word § 21. Annex 2 to art. 2 is hereby established. 94u1, para. 2: I. Information in Annual Reporting Reports 1. Annual financial statements including balance sheet, assets and liabilities accounts, profit and loss accounts during the calendar year expired and cash flow accounts. 2. Activity report in the expired calendar year. 3. Information on refusals to conclude contracts with users made pursuant to art. 94p, para. 1. 4. Description of the legal form and structure of the collective management organisation. 5. Information on all legal persons, directly or indirectly owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by the collective management organisation. 6. Information on the total amount paid as remuneration to the Executive Director and the members of the Management Board in the previous year and any other benefits granted to them. 7. The financial information referred to in Section II. 8. A separate report on the use of amounts withheld for social, cultural and educational services containing the information referred to in Section III. II. Financial information in the Annual Reporting Report 1. Financial information on the revenue from collective management of rights by category of rights managed and type of use, including information on the proceeds from investing part of that revenue and the proceeds from it, and the way those receipts are spent, whether they have been distributed among the holders of rights, other collective management organisations or otherwise used. 2. Financial information on the costs of collective management of rights and other services provided to holders of rights, accompanied by an explanation for: (a) all current and financial costs, with breakdowns by category of rights managed and, where the costs are indirect and cannot be attributed to certain one or more categories of rights, an explanation of the methodology in which their allocation has been made; (b) current and financial costs, broken down by categories of rights managed and, where the costs are indirect and cannot be attributed to defined one or more categories of rights, an explanation of the methodology that has been used to allocate them, only in respect of the management of rights, including management fees deducted from or compensated by the income from collective management of rights, or any advance resulting from the investment of the income from collective management of rights in accordance with art. Reg. 94l. Art. 2 and Art. 2 Reg. 94l1, para. 1.. 4; (c) current and financial expenditure in respect of services other than collective management services, but involving social, cultural and educational services; (d) resources used to cover expenditure; (c) current and financial costs in respect of services other than collective management services, but involving social, cultural and educational services; (d) resources used to cover expenditure; (e) deductions from income from collective management of rights broken down by categories of rights managed and by type of use, as well as the purpose of deductions, such as costs related to own maintenance or social, cultural or educational services; (f) the percentage of the costs associated with collective management of rights and other services provided by the collective management organisation of rights holders in relation to the revenue from collective management of rights for the financial year concerned, by categories of rights managed, and where the costs are indirect and cannot be attributed to certain one or more categories of rights, an explanation of the methodology used for the allocation of those indirect costs. 3. Financial information on amounts due to holders of rights explaining: (a) the total amount allocated to holders of rights broken down by category of rights managed and type of use; (b) the total amount paid to holders of rights broken down by category of rights managed and type of use; (c) the frequency of payments broken down by category of rights managed and type of use; (d) the total amount collected but not allocated to holders of rights, broken down by category of rights managed and type of use, with reference to the calendar year in which those amounts were collected; (e) the total amount allocated to holders of rights but not allocated to them, broken down by category of rights managed and type of use, with an indication of the calendar year in which those amounts were collected; (f) the reasons why the time limits under art. 94m for the allocation and payment of the amounts collected have not been complied with; (g) the total amount of amounts that cannot be allocated together with an explanation of the use of those amounts. 4. Information on links with other collective management organisations explaining: (a) amounts received from other collective management organisations and amounts paid to other collective management organisations with a breakdown by category of rights managed, by type of use and by organisation; (b) deductions for own maintenance and other deductions from rights management revenue due to other collective management organisations with a breakdown by category of rights managed, by type of use and by organisation; (c) deductions for own maintenance and other deductions from amounts paid by other organisations, broken down by category of rights managed and by organisation; (d) amounts allocated directly to holders of rights originating in other organisations, broken down by category of rights managed and by organisation. III. Information in the special report 1. The amounts withheld for social, cultural and educational services during the financial year, broken down by type of purpose and for each type of objectives broken down by categories of rights managed and by type of use. 2. An explanation of the use of these amounts, broken down by type of purpose, including the costs of managing amounts withheld to finance social, cultural and educational services and individual amounts used for social, cultural and educational purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting § 20 and § 21 with the app which has just been read. Vote 95 MPs: 87, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u60	The Commission proposes to create an Additional provision with a new § 22: "Additional provision' § 22. This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-terrential licensing of rights in musical works for use online on the internal market (OJ L 84/72 of 20 March 2014.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). "Transitional and final provisions' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission proposes to create a new §23: ..................................................... Where a collective management organisation has not granted multiple territorial authorisations for the use of musical works on the internet, it shall not offer such authorisations, nor shall it have authorised another collective management organisation to do so on its behalf until 10 April 2017, the holders of rights which have authorised that organisation to manage those rights may withdraw them from that organisation without having to withdraw them in respect of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria so that they may authorise the multi-terrential use of their works directly or through third parties, including through another collective management organisation that meets the requirements of Chapter 11..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Article 94x, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 94x2 shall apply accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u61	Thank you. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? There are no speeches. We shall proceed to the vote on § 22, the title "Additional provision', "Transitional and final provisions' and "the name of the division', and § 23. They voted 94 MPs: 86, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u62	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. (1) A collective management organisation registered in the Ministry of Culture until the entry into force of this law shall retain the registration for the same category of rights, types of rights, works or other objects of protection for which it has been registered. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the collective management organisation of rights under para. 1 notify its members of the rights under art. Reg. 94a1, para. 1, 3, 4 and 5. (3) The collective management organisation of rights under para. 1 shall establish its statutes in accordance with the requirements of this Act within 6 months of its entry into force. (4) Rewardes for the withdrawal of rights managed by collective management organisations determined until the entry into force of this law shall remain effective. Where the amount of remuneration is determined without discussion with a representative user organisation, the representative user organisation within the meaning of art. Reg. 94r. 2 may request an amendment and supplement of remuneration at any time as art. Reg. 94r. 3 "8" shall apply accordingly. (5) Organisation for collective management of rights under para. 1 which wants to receive a registration for collective management of rights for a multi-terrential authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works under Chapter Eleventh.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 94b1. (6) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall bring the register of the repealed art. 40 years in accordance with art. 94 yrs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u64	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor of speech to make a proposal for an amendment in respect of § 24, para. 3 the words: "Six months" to be replaced by "eight months." It shall be for the period within which the collective management organisation shall establish its statutes in accordance with the requirements of that law. Since the expiry of the six-month period will coincide with the summer season and the change of statutes requires a general meeting and formation of working groups within collective management organisations, we therefore propose that this period be changed from six months to eight months.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there any line to his speech and considerations regarding his so-called editorial change? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting first on Mr. Kirilov's proposal in § 24, para. 3 "Instead of the 6 month period" is to be drawn up for a period of 8 months. Vote 97 MPs: 86, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 24 with the editorial amendment, as Mrs. Atanasova has read. Please vote on the entire § 24. Vote 98 MPs: 86, none, abstention 12. The proposal is accepted by which § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) A trading company may apply for registration within 6 months of the entry into force of this law if it is authorised to manage copyrights or related rights simultaneously on behalf of more than one holder of such rights for their general benefit, as its sole or principal activity, and is neither owned, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by holders of such rights. (2) The Society under para. 1 may operate under collective management of rights until the issue of a certificate of registration as an independent company for the management of rights or until the entry into force of an order for refusal of registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on § 20, which becomes § 25 in the version of the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 93, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u68	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u69	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 21. They voted 102 MPs: 88, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u70	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The administrative proceedings established and not concluded until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the new order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u71	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 22, which becomes § 26 in the version of the Commission. They voted 110 MPs: 92, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u72	The Commission shall generally support the text but the importer and shall propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Culture shall present to the European Commission a report on the state and development of the multi-terrential waiver of rights on the Internet in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report shall contain information on the availability of multi-terrential authorisations, on compliance with Chapter 11 of the collective management organisations, as well as an assessment of the development of the multi-terrential authorisation of the use on the internet of musical works by users, holders of rights and other interested parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on § 23, which becomes § 27 in the version of the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 94, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u74	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The Minister of Culture shall provide the European Commission with a list of the registered collective management organisations and shall notify it of changes to it within three months of their entry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u75	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 24, which becomes § 28 in the version of the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: for 93, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u76	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 25 be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 21. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, which is not supported by the Commission: A new § 25a with the following content shall be established in the section "Transitional and Final Provisions'. § 25a. The Radio and Television Act makes the following additions: 1. A new article shall be created in Chapter One. 19D: Art. Nineteen years old. (1) The provision against payment of rights for broadcasting of radio or television programmes in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be made under conditions of free negotiation on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis. (2) The granting of broadcasting rights for payment of a separate radio or television programme shall not be subject to the compulsory purchase of rights to distribute another radio or television programme, to assume obligations for the dissemination of several or all radio or television programmes, including in a package, or to the provision of a mandatory number of end-users. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126c is created a new para. 5. For a person who grants, for payment, rights to distribute radio or television programmes in violation of art. 19 years, a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed. In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be double the amount of the penalty. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova. The Commission proposes to establish § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 3 is created t. 15: ..15. obligations to provide correct and accurate information on the number of users and subscribers of undertakings providing electronic communications networks and/or services. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231, para. 2 Finally add the contracts with content providers, as well as an up-to-date database for subscribers, subject to the requirements for protection of personal data. The Commission proposes to establish § 30: 30. In the Law on Protection and Development of Culture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31, para. 1, t. 1 after the words "al." Article 1 (1) is replaced by the following: 98c1, ) (a.k.a. The The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. There are also applications to be voted on: Annex 2 to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 is A. Information in the annual reporting reports under art. Reg. 94uI, para. 2. B. Financial information in the annual reporting report. C. Information in the special report under art. 94 UII, para.2. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that the Annex be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u78	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will brief you on the motives of the proposed amendment and supplement to the Law on Radio and Television. There are numerous cases where the purchase of broadcasting rights for a radio or television programme is linked by the rights holder to the purchase of distribution rights and other programmes, regardless of whether the distributor is interested in these programmes and wishes to acquire the rights to their distribution. Thus, the relations between the parties to a contract for the provision of broadcasting rights for radio and/or television programmes are entirely unequal. The benefit is solely for the holder of the distribution rights, and their potential buyer is forced to purchase his proposed package of programs, whether he wants to distribute them all or only one of them. Moreover, the cumulativeity of broadcasting rights contracts is often a mandatory condition for concluding a contract and ensuring a certain number of subscribers to the programme distributor. The proposed objective is to create a level playing field for free negotiation and on a fair and non-discriminatory basis when concluding contracts for the retribution of broadcasting rights for radio or television programmes. Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who worked in the Committee on the adoption of a second reading of this bill, especially to my colleague and Commission President Danail Kirilov, the working group, composed of experts from the Directorate of Employment and EU Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u79	Are there any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will take a separate speech, and my colleague Mitev will have the opportunity to replicate my speech. The first question on which I will speak is his proposal, which he has just justified, for amendment to the Law on Radio and Television to make additions and to create a new art. Nineteen years old. In the Working Group and at second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we discussed this proposal twice and commented on its grounds. Unfortunately, we will not support it in this vote. If we have to comment on the details, there was a commentary on the free negotiation on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis. There were comments regarding the packing itself that the packaged programs actually contain a calculated discount and thus a preferential condition for the buyer consumer. If, figuratively speaking, they are detached and a separate price is formed, the discount is dropped. In any case, the Commission for Protection of Competition has found that there is no bad commercial practice, as the market is offered and packaged, i.e. the possibility to package the programmes and to agree as a discount package, and to negotiate separately, individually, of course, at a higher price. For this reason, we will abstain from supporting this proposal by fellow Member Christian Mitev. Secondly, I am proposing with regard to the version of § 31. Now the paragraph has the following text:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I explained the arguments relating to § 18 concerning the new powers of the mayors and § 30 concerning the establishment and implementation of the funds corresponding to the Fund in the Law on Protection and Development of Culture and require a special reflection of that basis for the deduction of this income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, my reply is in the second part of your speech regarding the additional period of training, the preparation of municipalities to have sufficient qualified employees who can carry out the checks and accordingly conduct quality administrative criminal proceedings under these amendments to the Copyright Act. We just voted on an extended deadline for bringing the statutes of collective law organisations into line with the Law. There, the deadline we gave was 8 months, and the justification was the summer season. There's a summer season here, too, and I'm not sure these six months are enough. I wouldn't make an alternative proposal, but in the form of a question: don't you think it's more appropriate that this term is 9 months? Both in the discussions in the working group and in the Commission it became clear that a longer period was needed. There was, as far as I know, a project in Sofia City, similar to this proposal. However, let us not forget that not all municipalities have the capacity, resources and opportunities of Sofia Municipality and it is really good to have a much greater deadline. I think that in the discussion and the participants, stakeholders, expressed an opinion that we need a longer period of training and preparation in other municipalities if we want to have a working text and actually apply. Do not leave another text in the Law, which has a desirable character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Mitev, I accept your proposal. It was uncomfortable for me to propose for a longer period of six months, but I fully join and make a proposal according to your reply to consider my proposal to have been made for the nine months. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am also making a procedural proposal for a separate vote as we may have a different vote on some of the texts. I also use, perhaps we are already in the final vote of this draft law, to express my gratitude to all the MPs who participated in the discussions in both the working groups and the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to thank the Directorate of References and the experts of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who organised and held the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is difficult for me to say the exact number of meetings of the Working Group, but two long meetings were held by the Legal Committee. I particularly thank the opposition, because in the debates under this law, I would say that there was a discussion of principle and essentially which was not escalating and politically deliberate. I think that if we use this approach more often, we could seriously improve the quality of legislation. Thank you to all the organizations that took part, as well as...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u85	We're not done with the law, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u86	He and colleague Mitev thanked, and then we don't have a procedure for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u87	Finish up something to clarify. Am I to understand that you are withdrawing the proposal you made before then and supporting Mr. Mitev's proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u88	I will read it in the following way, Madam President: § 31 acquires the following version: The work shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 18 and § 30, which shall enter into force nine months after its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u89	Okay, we're replacing six months, like your previous proposal, with nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u91	After you thanked so many people, and I thank you for correcting the text. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We begin by voting on the latest texts on this bill. We are voting for the Commission proposal § 25 to be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 21. They voted 115 MPs: for 93, against none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 15 against 18 abstentions 80. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 29 in the version of the Commission. It's a new paragraph. They voted 104 MPs: 91, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 30, which is newly created on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 98, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. First, we vote on the addition of Mr Kirilov to § 31, which proposed that after the day of his promulgation a comma should be placed and supplemented by the words "with the exception of § 18 and § 30, which enter into force nine months after his promulgation." Vote 117 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We vote on the version proposed by the Commission for § 26, which becomes § 31. They voted 112 MPs: 93, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. As regards Annex No 2, the Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes that the Annex be rejected as reflected in a new § 21. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 92, none, abstention 14. The proposal has been passed, and the whole law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u92	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the next item of the weekly programme and it is: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF BULGARIA AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ACADEEMIC COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The Second Reading Report will introduce us to the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, before this I ask for permission in the hall of Mr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Mr. Kalin Kostov, advisor to the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u94	Please vote regime for the admission of the proposed guests. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u95	♪ I can't believe for a second vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-27, submitted by the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017 and adopted at the first vote on 13 July 2017. The Law on the Development of the Academic Board of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u96	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I am voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the Law. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u97	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 after the words.................................................................... is added to the Union............................................... is added............. and after the...................................... 2. In para. 2, p. At the end of this period, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u98	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 in the version proposed by the Commission and § 2 by importer. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u99	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission under the heading. 1 point (b) and the proposal under point (b) 1 letters................................................................................................................ 2 "7" is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is Art. 2a. (1) The Minister of Education and Science through the National Information and Documentation Centre shall establish and maintain a public register as an electronic database in which they shall be entered: 1. persons who have acquired an educational and scientific degree of doctor and/or PhD in higher school or scientific organization in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. protected dissertation works and 3. Habilitated persons in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Persons with acquired degrees abroad recognised under the legal order shall also be entered in the register. (3) Higher schools and scientific organizations shall send to the National Center for Information and Documentation a copy of the protected thesis and authoreferates to them in paper and electronic form, information on the diplomas awarded for the acquired educational and scientific degree of Doctor and the PhD of Sciences and on the elected academic positions within 14 days from the date of issue of the diploma, respectively, from the date of selection. (4) The National Information and Documentation Centre shall maintain an archive of protected dissertation works in electronic and printed format with public access. (5) For each person entered in the register under para. 1 an electronic profile shall be created indicating: 1. circumstances relating to individual indicators that reflect the scientific results of the person and/or the results that reflect his achievements in artistic or sports activities; 2. circumstances relating to individual indicators that reflect academic achievements in teaching; 3 the change in the academic position held; 4. the discharge from academic position and the grounds for this; 5. other circumstances that reflect the scientific and academic results of the person and/or his results in artistic or sports activities. (6) The information in the register shall be maintained subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Copyright and Related Rights Act. (7) The circumstances of para. 5 shall be entered in the register of applications of higher schools, scientific organisations or persons themselves. The applicant shall declare the correctness of the circumstances applied for for entry which shall not be certified by an official document. (8) The Executive Director of the National Information and Documentation Centre shall refuse entry in the Register where it is established in accordance with the statutory order that: 1. the applied for entry circumstances are untrue; 2. the attached official documents are not issued in the legal form established by law. (9) Refusal under para. 8 may be appealed under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The props, the conditions and arrangements for keeping the register under para. 1 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any comments on the proposed text for § 3? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the importers. In the detailed mechanism of registering the scientific works of academic title holders there exists a whole series at the moment, both docs, and professors, and candidates, and PhDs of Sciences who defended dissertations far before the time of electronic media. Their works cannot be taken away unless they are rewritten according to the principle of Paisii Hilendarski for hours or months to copy and create carriers. What will happen to these current docs and professors, since this is not reflected in the document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u102	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I was expecting statements from importers, but I see no desire, no requests, Professor Mihailov. We are going to vote on the proposed text for § 3. I shall put to the vote the text of § 3 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 13, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u103	Under § 4, there is a proposal made by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is generally supported in accordance with this point. 1 and the proposal from t. Two to five is withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Tanya Petrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by Art. 2b. (1) Applicants for the acquisition of a scientific degree and for the occupying of the academic positions of a chief assistant, associate professor and professor shall meet minimum national requirements for the scientific, teaching and/or artistic or sports activities defined in this Law, hereinafter referred to as minimum national requirements. (2) The minimum national requirements shall be a set of requirements each of which shall be determined by the numerical values of one or more objectively measurable indicators relevant to the relevant scientific area and/or professional direction, such as: 1. indicators that reflect scientific results and their response in scientific literature and/or indicators that reflect measurable achievements in artistic or sports activities such as: number of authors' monographs, number of publications in referee and indexed editions, number of chapters in books, number of studios and/or reviews, number of quotations without authors in reference and indexed editions from other authors of the applicant's publications, number of applications for international patents submitted, number of applications for national patents issued, number of international and/or number of national patents issued, number of reports submitted, including plenary and invited, of scientific conferences received from the applicant's publications and awards in relation to the scientific, artistic or sports achievements of the applicant, number of participations in scientific and/or organisational committees of international conferences, editors or as editors of editorial groups in reference publications, number of successfully managed projects from the applicant's research, artistic or sports achievements of the applicant's. 2. Indicators that reflect measurable academic results in teaching activities, such as: number of protected under the guidance of the applicant thesis for the acquisition of the educational and scientific degree "Doctor" and number of new lecture courses, number of developed new exercises for lecture courses, number of published textbooks abroad, number of published textbooks and/or teaching materials in the Republic of Bulgaria, including electronic textbooks, management of Master's and/or Bachelor's programmes and other similar academic achievements in teaching activities. (3) The minimum national requirements under para. 2 in scientific fields and/or professional directions for the acquisition of each degree and the occupation of each academic position shall be laid down in the Rules implementing this Law on the basis of a group of indicators among the indicators under para. 2 and shall be expressed in a minimum number of points to be received by the applicant in accordance with their individual results on these indicators. (4) An applicant who has received not less than the minimum number of points for the relevant scientific field or professional field and for the relevant degree and academic position on the basis of his individual results on the indicators under para. 3, meets the minimum national requirements. The minimum number of points and the procedure for calculating them shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure. 3 for each scientific area and/or professional direction and for each degree and academic position. (5) Higher schools and scientific organisations may lay down in their regulations and additional requirements for candidates for the holding of academic positions, subject to this law and its implementing rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that we agree that there must be minimum requirements that we have proposed in our version, which is supported by the Commission. At the same time, when the matrices are presented as presented, it is understood that this covers absolutely all the cases by which we have naucometric indicators. There are missing ones that, when developing the rules afterwards, are not taken into account, which means that a large part of those people who are involved in science and who have such science metrics will not enter these minimum requirements. What's this about? First of all, there are no scientific projects. Scientists who are at the Agricultural Academy and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have the greatest weight of scientific projects that can be one, two, three or four years. The words "scientific project" in the science indicators are missing. The other thing missing is copyright. You say that patents and useful models are considered, but there are also other copyrights such as plant varieties, breeds of animals that will not enter these minimal naucometric indicators. That's why I'm offering you a t. 1 to be supplemented by these two additional proposals... scientific projects.. and other It makes sense from the point of view of the development of the rules afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u106	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. In this part, your proposal is supported by the Commission. We get it right, don't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u107	The Commission's support proposal is for minimum requirements. In para. 2, p. 1 I propose to add
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u108	In para. 2, p. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u109	Yeah. "Other copyrights" and "Science projects."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u110	First of all, the copyright rights. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] We'll sort this out. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any line requests. We'll wait for you to clarify. [[Professor Bachvarova specified the text with the MP Milena Damyanova and the Commission reference.]] We will vote on this proposal by Professor Bachvarova. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We will now proceed to the vote on the paragraph under consideration. We will begin with the proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u111	If I may, Mr. Chairman, as Mrs. Bachvarova and I have clarified that the projects actually exist in the text, including in terms of management and participation in them, just at the end of this. 1, fifth row from the bottom up after the successfully completed and completed projects to be added. That is to say, before "projects" to be added to "scientific".
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u112	The text number of projects led and successfully completed to become a number of projects led, completed, scientific projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u113	Finally, after a number of scored scores and other similar achievements, add other rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u114	Should I consider this Professor Bachvarova's proposal? Professor Bachvarova, excuse me, do we consider this to be your proposal and put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u116	Dear Members of Parliament, we have understood the proposal made in this House. It refers to the addition of the definition of the projects implemented. To become the completed scientific projects and at the end of the text of this article. 1 of para. 2 to add the words.. and other copyrights....................................................................................................... Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text in the version proposed by the Commission, with the additions just made. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u117	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, i.e. 1 the word "faculty' is replaced by "academic'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u118	Thank you. Are there any statements under § 5? I can't see. The proposals received between first and second readings are supported and included in the Commission's version. We shall proceed to the vote on the wording of Paragraph 5 as amended by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u119	According to § 6, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. There is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Errol Mehmed, made by the order of art. Reg. 83 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 4 is amended Art. 4. (1) The assessment of compliance with the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, with the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5, as well as the evaluation of the dissertation work and of the candidates for the occupying of academic positions, the chief assistant, the associate professor and the professor, including the results, the scientific contribution and originality of the presented works, shall be carried out by a scientific jury. For each specific procedure its composition shall be proposed by the primary unit and validated by the faculty, respectively the Scientific Council. (2) The Rector of the Higher School, respectively the Head of the Scientific Organization shall appoint by order the composition of the Scientific Jury on the basis of the established by para. 1 proposal, no later than 14 days after receipt. (3) For members of the Scientific Jury shall be selected persons who are habilitated in Bulgarian universities or scientific organizations with results in the respective specialty and/or professional direction for the announced contest or the theme of the thesis and, if not possible, in the relevant scientific area included in the register under art. 2a, and/or scientists from foreign universities or scientific organisations with results in the relevant specialty and/or professional direction, and/or scientific area. In the case of interdisciplinaryness of the announced contest or the theme of the thesis, at least one member of the jury must be from another scientific area to which the announced contest or the theme of the thesis is relevant. The selection shall be made by two groups of staff of external and internal members for the relevant university or scientific organisation. In the selection of a scientific jury, one external and one internal reserve member shall be appointed. (4) The members of the Scientific Jury shall meet the relevant minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. Two and three. (5) For members of the Scientific Jury under para. 1 no persons may be elected: 1. who have a conflict of interest within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2a of the Additional Provisions with a candidate to acquire a degree or to hold a academic position or for which there are restrictions under art.33. 2. which are related persons within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 5 of the Additional Provisions with a candidate to acquire a degree or to hold an academic position; 3. for which plagiarism in scientific works has been proven by the legal order; 4. who are exempt from academic position on the basis of art. 35, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. who have been members of the scientific jury in the previous two consecutive procedures for the protection of dissertation work and/or for the taking up of an academic position in the same professional direction, in the relevant university or scientific organisation, in cases where there are sufficiently habilitated persons in this professional direction. (6) The circumstances of para. 5, t. 1 " 4" in the procedures for the acquisition of a scientific degree and for the holding of an academic position shall be established by a declaration from each member of the scientific jury, and under para. 5, t. 5 shall be established by the relevant university or scientific organisation. (7) At the request of the faculty or scientific council of the applicant for the acquisition of a scientific degree or for the holding of an academic position, one member of the jury shall be replaced by another of the respective quota under the order laid down by law. The request can only be made once. (8) At its first meeting the scientific jury under para. 1: 1. elect one of its members as Chairman; 2. decide on admission of candidates to evaluation in accordance with the requirements of art. 3, para. 3; 3. determine by its composition reviewers the admitted candidates. (9) The decisions of the jury shall be adopted by a clear vote and a simple majority and shall be formed in a protocol. The Protocol shall contain as an integral part the reasons for the adoption of the decision concerned, including on: 1. the results of the applicant, his scientific contribution, the originality of the presented works and the authenticity of the presented scientific data; 2. the replies of the applicant to the observations referred to in the reviews and opinions and to the questions addressed to him; 3. reasons for the acceptance or non-acceptance of the opinion of the applicant in the cases under para. 11th sentence, second sentence. (10) No jury meetings may be held in reduced composition. The refusal to participate in a meeting or the refusal to sign a member of the jury in the minutes shall be established by the signatures of the members of the jury present and shall not give rise to the suspension of the procedure. The decisions of the jury may also be taken in absentia and, in such cases, the discussion and voting shall be carried out by appropriate technical means under conditions and in accordance with the rules of the higher school or scientific organisation. (11) When in the assessment under para. 1 Member of the Scientific Jury established or received a written signal of plagiarism which is not anonymous and motivated, the Scientific Jury must rule on the existence or absence of plagiarism in the dissertation work in order laid down in this law and in the regulations of higher schools and scientific organisations. In such cases, before a scientific jury gives the applicant the opportunity to submit his opinion. (12) Upon receiving a plagiarism signal in the initiated evaluation procedure under para. 1, it cannot be terminated due to the withdrawal of the applicant's documents. (13) Reviews and opinions, summaries of reviewed publications and authors shall be published on public access on the website of the higher school or scientific organization in Bulgarian and in one of the languages traditionally used in the relevant scientific field. The public access of the materials shall be maintained for at least five years after the completion of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u120	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The procedure for the selection of a scientific jury has been signed. Since the principle that it should be chosen randomly by the information system has not been adopted, it is therefore necessary to specify the way in which it should be chosen. In para. 4 it is said that the members of the Scientific Jury must meet the requirements for minimum national requirements for obtaining the relevant degree. Here the question that arises is how will it happen with a declaration, from the information system, who will determine it? Because, after all, the procedures go on and on, and those who participate in the scientific jury from now on, we need to make sure that they meet the minimum requirements. Does this mean that we will review all procedures that were made during the Act when there were no minimum requirements? And the second thing that worries me extremely much is that it is not as a proposal of the importer, it is not as a proposal of any of the MPs, and that is that the jury's decision under para. 10 can also be taken indeterminately. So we have remote higher education, and now we have remote solutions to validate one or another decision-making procedure. I can't figure out how the remote jury is gonna get together and decide if anyone's moving forward, whether there's plagiarism, whether the reviews are accurate, and it's nowhere to be proposed. This can't be editing. That's why I'm offering in al. The 10th sentence of the jury may also be taken in absentia, in which case the discussion shall be carried out by appropriate technical means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u122	It's there, how can it be gone?! It's in my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u123	Honestly, I didn't see it, but if you could explain to me how a remote jury of three or five people would make a decision based on electronic media... I don't understand that, honestly. This reduces the jury's work and those who are prepared to defend their own accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u124	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Just to clarify: in relation to the two problems mentioned by you, you make one suggestion, that is, to drop the last sentence in para. 10 after the word "procedure" there to complete para. 10. We'll put it to the vote. The word for the line "Professor Stanilov."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u125	Dear colleagues, dear Professor Bachvarova! Your first questions are further in the Law, how they are registered, how people with minimum requirements are accepted. There are some declarations being filed there. If the last version that was uploaded now, you had read it carefully, you wouldn't have asked these questions. As for the remote holding of competitions, they are now held in VUMs under this law, without neglecting it. Once all members of the jury are present remotely on the Internet and exchange their views on the Internet, this is actually, in my opinion, possible and does not need to be reduced because, as they say, life is moving forward and we cannot avoid it. Next you will see in this ethics committee how they are taken, it is almost built on an electronic way.. how documents are collected, how they proceed in all the work. There's no way to avoid this technology. I don't see anything wrong with that. I myself have held such a competition, which was not prohibited by the previous law. I didn't see anything that wasn't serious, and there were no violations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u126	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Bachvarova, since you said that the text is not in the proposals, no, on the contrary, it is in the proposals on page 10 of the report, which was made by me and a group of MPs. So you can see it there at t. 5 to para. 9 A sentence third is created: The jury's decisions may also be taken in absentia, in which case the discussion of the vote is conducted by means of the technical means concerned............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will not repeat what Professor Stanilov said, I will only add that the possibility of this way of holding and participating in the jury is available as an opportunity in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. There are dozens of procedures that have already been carried out using new technologies. So we really need to move forward, not back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Professor Bachvarova, will you use the right of the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u129	Just because the jury's decisions are proposed to be taken remotely does not mean that this is the best procedure. The reason is that you have a jury of five or seven people, and they can't get together for a procedure! Excuse me, there used to be systems in which you had councils, committees, presidiums of VAC and everyone was gathering and voting presently! Now you're telling me that you, the jury of seven, can't put it together to make a decision, whatever it was, you're going to do it by some system. To tell you the truth, I don't understand it. And I don't understand it from the point of view of the importance of the jury's commitments that you've chosen. They have responsibilities, they are paid to participate in this jury, and the indecent decision-making is something that for me is not...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u130	What about foreign professors?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u131	Foreign, non-foreign, in Bulgaria are good. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u132	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Stanilov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u133	We have a misunderstanding here, I think. I'd like to clarify things in a statement. Mrs. Bachvarova, five months for geologists, archaeologists and so on, and so on, five months in due time, we're absent and we can't get back together. I, when I'm on the field, can't leave for not one day, can't leave for half an hour if I leave for two days, which I need for the jury, I lose a few thousand leva of the wrong money of the state. That's why it's done this way. Not to mention geologists who go wintertime and there is no way to gather them all. Otherwise, when the season runs in winter... And in the oldest law, when there was a scientific council, there was an unattainable quota, which required only the... there they could be absent. They can't be absent here, and that's why we're doing it, we've come up with it this way. That's why I've been involved in this kind of thing, and I don't see any violations so far. I think one or two contests we've held for docs, there was no violation of any, first of all, I'm not going to make such a violation ever.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u134	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any lines to Professor Stanilov's statement? I can't see. Any other comments on the text under consideration? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal for a text of § 6 as amended by the Commission. We specified the reason for including the text, which is the subject of a proposal by Professor Bachvarova. We vote on Professor Bachvarova's proposal for dropping the last sentence of para. 10 in the proposal by the President of the Commission, namely para. 10 complete after the word.. Procedure.............................. the sentence........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 84 MPs: 16, against 52, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the wording of § 6 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u135	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u136	Are there any statements on the proposals for § 7 and § 8 of the Report? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are going to vote on the Commission report on the proposed texts for § 7 and § 8. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u137	Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs for § 9. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u138	Paragraph 9 statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal for § 9 on the report. Vote 91 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u139	Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 8 is created. 4, 5 and 6: Within one month of the expiry of the period referred to in para. 2 or para. 3 The primary unit proposes to the faculty, respectively, that the PhD student be awarded with or without the right to protection. (5) The Faculty, respectively the Scientific Council shall decide on the proposal of the primary unit at its first meeting after the meeting of the primary unit under para. 4. (6) The right of protection may be exercised within the time limit laid down in the rules of the relevant university or scientific organisation, but no later than five years after the decision of the faculty, respectively the Scientific Council under para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u140	Statements on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10, reported by Mrs Damyanova? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put the proposal to the vote in the version of the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u141	Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs under § 10. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u142	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on § 10 on the importer's report. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u143	Under § 11, there is a proposal from the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with Article 11. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 10 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the words "outside' shall be replaced by "outside'. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In the cases referred to in art. 4, para. 11 members of the scientific jury must give an opinion on the existence or absence of plagiarism in the thesis presented for evaluation in their reviews and opinions. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: In the cases referred to in para. 2 The scientific jury shall rule by a decision adopted by a simple majority on the existence or absence of plagiarism. The decision shall be adopted within a period of not more than 7 days after the expiry of the period under para. 3. (5) The candidate for the acquisition of the educational and scientific degree of Doctor shall not be allowed to protect the thesis when the scientific jury has adopted a decision on the existence of plagiarism in the evaluated work. (6) The decision of the Scientific Jury may be challenged before the Faculty, respectively the Scientific Council in accordance with the rules of the Higher School, respectively, of the Scientific Organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u144	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I do not see anyone who wishes to speak on the proposed text. We are going to vote on § 11, which becomes § 12, in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u145	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 a candidate who has been admitted shall be added at the end, in accordance with the requirements of art. 9 and 10
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u146	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed text? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 12 on the Commission Report, which becomes § 13, as proposed by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u147	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u148	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of § 13, which becomes § 14, in the version of the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. For today, we conclude the vote on the second reading of the law under consideration. In order to advance the time, honourable Members, I will introduce you to the Program for tomorrow's parliamentary control. Parliamentary control for 16 March 2018, Friday: First, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. Secondly, Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Krastina Taskova. Thirdly, Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the National Representative Donka Simeonova. Fourth, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer seven questions from the MPs: Georgi Gokov; Georgi Mihailov; Georgi Yordanov, Nikolay Penev, Ilian Timchev and Kristian Vigenin; again to a question from Georgi Yordanov; Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev; Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov. Fifthly, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov "to a question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to six questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Turnovalyski and Stefan Burgev; Boris Vangelov; Svetla Bachvarova, Dragomir Stoynev, Donka Simeonova, Georgi Gokov and Spas Panchev two questions; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova at a request from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov; and Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov; - a question from the MP Hristo Grudev to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate; the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozanov and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev is not able to participate because of his commitment to a planned meeting included in the Calendar of events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Due to the run-down of the program today, I'm closing the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-15.u149	The next regular meeting is tomorrow, 16 March 2018, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
