ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u1	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose that item five, which we started yesterday, second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, become the last point of the adopted Programme for the Work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u3	Mr. Ivanov, you're actually suggesting that we rearrange the agenda. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 163 MPs: 110, against 43, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Message: On 14 March 2018, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic of: a European Pillar of Social Rights and the Role of the Organized Civic Society. The material is provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE CONVENTION FOR INTERNATIONAL HYDROGRAPH ORGANIZATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you are, General Popov, to present the report to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. At a regular meeting held on 1 March 2018, the Defence Committee examined, for a first vote, a bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly on 16 February 2018. There were 19 MPs present. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. The International Hydrographic Organisation (IHO) is a leading international institution in hydrography, cartography and sea safety. Cooperation with it is important to increase national capabilities related to the safety of sailings. Membership in the organisation of each country shall be based on the compulsory contribution of an annual membership contribution consisting of two shares and additional shares determined on the basis of its national gross tonnage, including military ships. The total annual contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 amounts to 12 thousand. EUR, or BGN 23 612 The adoption of our country as a full member will result in advantages, including participation in regional projects to ensure the safety of shipping financed by the European Union, the possibility of training specialists from the Navy in international institutions in programmes approved by the International Hydrographic Organization and acquisition by the Hydrographic Service of the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria of certificates for the production of sea maps and tools certified by international standards. The Convention is proposed for ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the discussion of the Bill, the People's Representative Plamen Manushev briefed the members of the committee on the main aspects of the activities of the International Hydrographic Organization and highlighted the advantages for Bulgaria as a maritime state of ratification of the Convention. Full support for accession also expressed the other MPs. 19 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organization No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u5	Thank you, dear General Popov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation No 802-02-6 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. At a regular meeting held on 15 March 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, signed on 3 May 1967 in Monaco, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) is a leading international institution in hydrography, cartography and sea safety. It is one of the main international bodies developing the concepts of hydrographic and marine cartography, in close cooperation with the International Maritime Organisation, of which the Republic of Bulgaria has been a full member since 1960. With note No 78 of 24 April 1992, the Republic of Bulgaria is informed that the accession of the Bulgarian country is approved by 2/3 of the member states of the IHO. Such prior consent as a result of a lodged application for membership is necessary in accordance with the procedures of art. XX of the Convention. Pursuant to IHO financial rules, each country must make an annual contribution to IHO membership, consisting of two shares and additional shares determined on the basis of its national gross tonnage, including military ships. The total annual contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 is equal to EUR 12 072,96 or BGN 23 612,66. The adoption of our country as a full member will lead to the following advantages: including our country in the world maritime community and raising its authority as a maritime country participating in the decision-making of international shipping; participation in the work of the organisation, the right to vote in decision-making and access to the full volume of documents and data; participation in the absorption of funds granted by the European Union through the IHO, on regional projects to ensure the safety of shipping; opportunity to train specialists from the Navy in international institutions on approved by the IHO programmes and obtaining certificates of competence; increase by 15 per cent of the fees received by the Republic of Bulgaria under the bilateral agreement with the Hydrographic Service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (not, SG No. 50 from 2006); acquisition by the Hydrographic Service of the Navy of certificates for the production of sea maps and supplies according to international standards. The circumstances contained in the international treaty. The participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in an international organisation, financial obligations for the state and the participation of the state in arbitration or judicial settlement of international disputes impose its ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the presentation and discussion of the Bill was held with results: 19 votes for the International Hydrographic Organization, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, please present the Report in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. At its meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802 02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. General Atanas Zapreyanov attended the meeting. Mr. Zapreyanov presented the bill, pointing out that the International Hydrographic Organization is an international organisation that coordinates worldwide the establishment of standards for the development of hydrographic data and the provision of hydrographic services and which helps build national capacity in the field of hydrographic services. He noted that our country's acceptance as a full member would lead to a number of advantages such as our inclusion in the world maritime community, the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the work of the organization, the right to vote in decisions related to international shipping, participation in the absorption of EU funds to ensure the safety of shipping, opportunities for training of specialists and others. Mr. Zapreyanov added that the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the International Hydrographic Organization will contribute to creating an optimal environment for the development of active maritime policy and providing conditions for the safety of shipping in the maritime spaces of our country and participation in the global environment in which countries provide timely hydrographic data, products and services. In response to Mr. Milkov's question about the reason for delaying the ratification of the Convention by the Republic of Bulgaria, General Zapreyanov replied that the need for ratification arises after our adoption as a full member of the Organization of the North Atlantic Treaty (NATO) and of the European Union. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the International Hydrographic Organization, No 802-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The latest report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Admiral Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802-02-6 of 16 February 2018. At its regular meeting held on 28 February 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the General. Atanas Zaprianov Deputy Minister of Defence. The International Hydrographic Organization was established in 1967, based in Monaco. The organization is a leading international institution in hydrographic, cartography and safety at sea. Bulgaria has already been a member since 1960 of the International Maritime Organisation, with which the International Hydrographic Organization is in close cooperation. Our country's membership in the International Hydrographic Organisation will allow the participation in the absorption of EU funds through the International Hydrographic Organisation for Regional Projects for the Safety of Shipping, an opportunity to train specialists from our Naval Forces in international institutions approved by the Organization. The Hydrographic Service of our Navy would also acquire certificates for the production of sea maps and supplies according to international standards. For the membership of a new state in the Organisation, the agreement of two thirds of the agreement is necessary, this requirement has been terminated since 2016. The annual contribution for membership of the Organisation shall be determined for each country, taking into account the national shipping gross tonage. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which 10 Members of the National Assembly voted for the draft, without the opposition and the abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u11	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, No 802-02-6, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. They voted 130 MPs: 127, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I take the floor for a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we proceed to a second vote with ratification of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u13	Please vote on the procedure so made. 135 MPs voted: 133, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u14	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation A single member. Ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation, signed on 3 May 1967 in Monaco.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u15	Please, voting mode. They voted 124 MPs: for 123, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MARITIME SPACES, THE INTERNAL WATER ROADS AND THE PORTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u16	Madam President, first of all, if I may, an admission procedure in this Chamber. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 to be admitted to the Chamber of Veliko Zanchev
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u17	Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u18	The Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "7." the implementation of an ecosystem approach and the promotion of the co-existence of the various activities and ways of using the marine spaces of the Republic of Bulgaria with a view to achieving sustainable development and growth of the maritime economy, including to the maritime energy sector, transport by sea, fisheries and aquaculture, tourism, raw materials extraction, conservation of underwater cultural heritage and conservation, protection and improvement of the marine environment, including sustainability to the effects of climate change. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u19	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the version of § 1 of the Commission Report and § 2 which the Commission supports. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u20	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Chapter 2, Section VII is created. 51a "51g": Art. 51a. (1) The use of marine spaces of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried out in accordance with the principle of integrated management of maritime activities. (2) In order to promote sustainable growth of the maritime economy, sustainable development of the Bulgarian Black Sea region and sustainable use of natural resources, maritime spatial planning is organised and implemented. (3) Marine spatial planning shall include an analysis of activities in the use of marine spaces and their organisation in such a way as to allow their co-existence to achieve the environmental, economic and social objectives under art. 2. Art. 51b. (1) The general management and coordination of the activities of maritime spatial planning shall be carried out by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who shall also be responsible for the development and maintenance of the Marine Space Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) An Advisory Council on maritime spatial planning shall be established as an aid authority to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of cooperation and coordination in the maritime spatial planning process. (3) The functions, tasks and composition of the Advisory Council under para. 2 shall be determined by rules adopted by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (4) The name composition of the Advisory Council under para. 2 shall be determined by order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (5) Chairman of the Advisory Council under para. 2 is the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or his authorised Deputy Minister. Art. 51c. (1) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall cover the marine spaces of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to art. 5, para. 1 of which: coastal waters within the meaning of § 1, point 54 of the additional provisions of the Water Act. (2) The plan under para. 1 shall not be used for determining and divising the maritime borders in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea concluded in Montego Bay, Jamaica on 10 December 1982. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 38 from 1996.), (prom., SG No. 73 and 74 of 1996.). (3) The plan under para. 1 determines the spatial and temporal distribution of the activities carried out and the future in the use of marine spaces, with the exception of activities the purpose of which is defence or national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The plan under para. 1 includes: 1. the sea traffic system of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. areas and polygons for military exercises; 3. areas for research, development and use of natural resources; 4. the fishing zones; 5. aquaculture areas; 6. areas for tourism and recreation activities; 7. research areas; 8. protected areas and protected areas of the National Ecological Network; 9. protected areas for the protection of cultural heritage; 10. the routes of underwater linear objects of the technical infrastructure; 11. installations and facilities related to shipping; 12. installations and facilities for the development and use of mineral and energy resources; 13. the objects of underwater cultural heritage. Art. 51 C.E. (1) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be based on the analysis of the available ecological, geological, geomorphologic and physical information on the marine spaces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the information available through the National Portal for spatial data, as well as the social and economic data on the activities under art. 51c, para. 4. When preparing the plan, account shall be taken of: 1. the characteristics of the Black Sea region; 2. the state of biological, mineral and energy resources; 3. existing and future activities on the use of marine spaces and their impact on the environment and underwater cultural heritage; 4. the interactions between land and sea; 5. Transboundary cooperation in the Black Sea region. (2) The Republic of Bulgaria cooperates with the countries of the Black Sea region, including within the framework of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation and the Black Sea Protection Commission. Cooperation with Romania shall aim at achieving consistency and coordination of national maritime spatial plans on transnational issues. (3) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria may also be developed as part of a cross-border marine spatial plan of the Black Sea. Art. 51e. (1) The draft marine spatial plan shall be published for public discussion on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. (2) The public discussion shall be conducted together with the procedure for conducting environmental assessment consultations and/or the compatibility assessment that the project contracting authority organises and conducts under the Law on Environmental Protection, respectively under the Law on Biological Diversity. Art. 51f. (1) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, including text and graphical parts, shall be adopted by the National Expert Council on a structure of the territory and regional policy and shall be approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers. (2) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be reviewed every 10 years. (3) The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria may be reviewed outside the term under para. 2 if substantial changes to the socio-economic conditions under which it has been approved occur. (4) For the projects amending the Maritime Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall apply the provisions of para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 51e. Art. 51g. (1) The decisions of the Council of Ministers for approval of the Maritime Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria and its amendments shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. (2) The text and graphical parts of the approved Maritime Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria and its amendments shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. (3) The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall send a copy of the approved plan and its amendments to the European Commission and the countries of the Black Sea region within 3 months of the promulgation of the decision under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u22	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The detailed design plans under para. 1 are in line with the predictions of the sea spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall replace the words "the secondary law' with "the'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u23	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 of the Commission Report; § 5 and § 6 which have been adopted by the Commission; and § 7 with the corresponding version which Mr Letifov read earlier on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u24	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 4 a sentence second is created: "For the spatial planning and investment design of hydrotechnical facilities, which will also perform functions of a specialized port site under art. 111a, para. 1 or art. 111b, para. Article 1 shall apply. 112e and 112o. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8 of the Commission report; § 9 and § 10, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u26	According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 is created. For the spatial planning and investment design of hydrotechnical facilities, which will also perform functions of a specialized port site under art. 111a, para. 1 or art. 111b, para. Article 1 shall apply. 112e and 112o. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, and the words "the secondary law' shall be replaced by "the'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the norms prescribed by the Rules on the Transport of Dangerous Goods by Inland waterways adopted by the Danube Commission and by the European Economic Commission' shall be replaced by the rules of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways (ADN), signed in Geneva, the Swiss Confederation, on 26 May 2000. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 9 of 2006) (DV, No. 43 of 2008) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) 2. In para. 3 words The Regulations for sailing in the Bulgarian section on the Danube River shall be replaced by the Regulations for sailing along the Danube River adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u27	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 11 of the Commission report; § 12, which is supported by the Commission; § 13 with the corresponding version made by Mr Letifov; the version of § 14 on the Commission report; and § 15 which the Commission supports. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 2 the words The Regulations for River Surveillance on the Danube are replaced by the Rules for River Supervision adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 3 words The Regulations for sailing in the Bulgarian section of the Danube River (DV, no. 6 of 1992.) shall be replaced by the rules of art. 78, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u29	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 16 of the Commission report; § 17 and § 18, which the Commission supports; the version of § 19 of the Commission report; § 20, § 21 and § 22, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u30	According to § 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Claudia Gancheva, Atanas Tashkov, Boris Kirchev and Valentin Milushev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The construction and expansion of a public transport port shall be carried out on the basis of a master plan drawn up in accordance with the Integrated Transport Strategy approved by the Council of Ministers for the period up to 2030, spatial development concepts and schemes and spatial plans of a higher degree. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word (s) shall be deleted; (b) c. 1 the words the functional zoning shall be replaced by the development of existing and the need to book new territories intended to carry out port activities and services, the functional zoning of them and the latter shall be added and the arrangements of their device and the parameters of their construction shall be planned; (c) c. 2 the word "terror" is replaced by "terror" is replaced by the word "terror" is replaced by the word "terror" is replaced by the word "terror" is replaced by the (d) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." reflect the existing situation, define the common technical infrastructure of the port and define the development of the communications network (railways and roads) and other networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure in the territory of the port, as well as the other elements of the port infrastructure; (e) create a t. 4. "4." provide reasoned solutions for parameters (ranges and design depths) and for navigational provision of the port aquatory and of each of the areas therein; 3. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall grant the permission to design a master plan at the request of an interested party. (4) The draft general plan of a public transport port shall be adopted by an interdepartmental expert council appointed by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, which shall include authorised representatives of municipalities and areas of location of the public transport port, as well as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Health and the Customs Agency. Depending on the specifics of the port concerned, representatives of other interested offices and organisations may be included in the council. 4. In para. 5 words The adopted master plan under para. The adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the adopted in accordance with paragraph 3. 4 Project of a master plan. 5. In para. 7 in front of the word 6. In para. 9 after the words.... is added. is issued in accordance with the Law on Device in the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 24: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 112al: Art. 112al. (1) The application for authorisation for the preparation of a draft master plan of a public transport port accompanied by a design assignment shall be submitted to the Executive Agency by: 1. State-owned enterprise 2. concessionaire in a public transport port of national importance; 3. owner of a port for public transport of regional importance; 4. a natural or legal person registered as a trader who has an investment initiative to build a new or extension of an existing public transport port of regional importance. (2) Within 14 days of receipt of the application under para. 1 The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall present to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works a reasoned opinion on the compliance of the investment initiative with the documents under art. 112a, para. 1. (3) With the order under art. 112a, para. 3 define the scope, objectives and tasks of the Project and approve the assignment for its development. The order shall be published on the website of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration and shall not be contested. (4) The refusal to grant permission to design a master plan shall be given by a reasoned order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and may be challenged under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its notification to the applicant.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 23 of the Commission Report, as well as the version of § 24 of the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u32	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group in accordance with Article 25. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 112b is amended as follows: The draft master plan of a public transport port shall be submitted for consideration, acceptance and approval to the Executive Agency of the Sea with an application to which they apply: 1. documents certifying the implementation of the applicable procedures under the Environmental Protection Act, the Biodiversity Act and the Cultural Heritage Act; 2. written opinions on the coordination of the draft master plan of the operating companies to whose networks and facilities are present or envisaged accession; 3. other documents specified by the ordinance under art. 112a, para. 6 according to the nature of the investment initiative. (2) Where the investment initiative is to build a new port for public transport or to expand an existing port, including by building a new terminal, except for the documents under para. 1 the following documents shall also apply to the application: 1. for the individualization of the territory affected by the investment initiative; 2. a summary of the results of a pre-investment study on the availability of appropriate geographical, hydrological, hydrogeological and other conditions; the possibilities for connecting to the road network and to railway infrastructure, traffic of the type or types of goods concerned, respectively passengers; 3. technological and financial justification of the investment initiative, including justification of the necessity and size of the investments for the alienation of land properties, as well as for the construction of road and/or railway connections, of an aquatoria or individual areas thereof, parts of the common technical infrastructure of the port, and in cases where ships from an international shipping company are to be served at the port and of an area under art. 101, para. 1. (3) In case of incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 1 and 2 the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration within 14 days of the submission of the application shall notify the person in writing and give a period for their removal. If the applicant does not remove incompleteness within the specified time limit, the proceedings shall be terminated by order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The order may be challenged under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its notification to the applicant. (4) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall present to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works a reasoned opinion on the draft master plan accompanied by the entire administrative file within two months of receipt of the application under para. 1, respectively, by removing the shortcomings under para. 3. (5) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, in the cases under para. 4, appoint an interdepartmental expert council under Article 4. 112a, para. 4 to examine and adopt the draft master plan. (6) When the inter-departmental expert council under art. 112a, para. 4 takes a decision refusing to accept the draft master plan, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works refuse to approve the project. (7) The order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, which approves the draft master plan or refuses its approval, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and may be challenged by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u33	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 25 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u34	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group in accordance with Article 26. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112c. 2 and 3 are amended as follows: A master plan of a public transport port may be amended when: 1. changes to the socio-economic or spatial conditions under which the plan has been made and approved; 2. an investment initiative arises which concerns a reserved for future development of the port territory or is linked to a change in the parameters of the port territory or aquatory, including construction of a new terminal or a new cargo storage area, for carrying out activities under art. 116a or the checks and controls referred to in Article 116a. 101, para. 1 or to an area which is responsible for its intended purpose for the characteristics of a port under art. 107 " 109'; 3. there is a manifest factual error which is relevant for the forecasts of the plan; 4. as a result of an amendment of a cadastral plan, approval or amendment of a cadastral map, the property boundaries of land properties do not coincide with the external regulatory boundaries of the port territory. (3) The draft amendments to a master plan of a public transport port shall be drawn up, examined, adopted and approved under the terms and conditions of art. 112a, 112a1 and 112b. Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group in accordance with Article 27. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u35	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote three texts: the first text, which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 26; the second text, the Commission proposes to reject § 27; the third text, which becomes § 27 and which is supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The texts are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u36	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 28, as in para. 3 words "In terms of coordination' shall be replaced by "Consistency'. Under § 30, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group in accordance with Article 30. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29, and shall propose the following version: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. "On the basis of.................................................................. and after the word..................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2: (a) in the first sentence, the word (b) the second sentence is amended as follows: The parcel plan shall determine the location of the hydrotechnical port facilities located and/or floating, the boundaries of the port aquatoria and of the individual areas within it and the navigational provision of the port aquatoria in accordance with the rules of the Combined System of Maritime Floating Sign A introduced by Decree No 1212 on the introduction into the territorial waters of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. 34 of 1983.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No (c) a third sentence shall be created: "To determine the width of the operating aquatory, the length of the diameter of the turning circle in the manoeuvre zone (when the construction of such a is necessary) and the total limit of the operating aquatories of two adjacent ports with a common land border shall apply the ordinance under art. 112a, para. 6................................................ 3. In para. 3: (a) in the first sentence, the word (b) in the second sentence, the second sentence shall be added in accordance with the rules laid down in para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as 4. In para. 4. (a) the words suppliing the detailed planning plan under para. 2 and 3 shall be entrusted to a legal person, a designer, of the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 or 3 shall be granted by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or by an official authorised by him at the request of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) sentences are created second, third, fourth and fifth: A design assignment shall be applied to the request. The authorisation shall specify the scope, objectives and tasks of the project and shall approve the task of drawing up the plan. The order granting permission cannot be contested. The refusal to grant an authorisation shall be reasoned and may be challenged under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its notification to the applicant. 5. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The project of a specialized detailed development plan under para. 2 or 3 shall be agreed with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and for ports under art. 107 and for the subjects under art. 111a, para. 1 " and with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, before its entry for acceptance and approval. The project shall be examined and adopted by the National Expert Council on a structure of the territory and regional policy and approved by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or by an official authorised by it. 6. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: A specialized detailed development plan under para. 2 or 3 may be amended where: 1. changes to the socio-economic or spatial conditions under which the plan has been made and approved; 2. an investment initiative shall arise in respect of a port under art. The total amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to be recovered shall be limited to the amount of the aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. expansion of the port by building new fixed or placing new floating hydrotechnical port facilities; 3. there is an investment initiative to expand a specialized port site by building new fixed or installing new floating hydrotechnical facilities or is related to changing the parameters of the aquatory of a specialized port site under art. 111a, para. 3 or art. 111b, para. 4; 4. there is a manifest factual error which is relevant for the forecasts of the plan; 5. as a result of an amendment of a cadastral plan, approval or amendment of a cadastral map, the property boundaries of the land properties do not coincide with the external regulatory boundaries of the port territory for the ports under art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. (7) The projects to amend the specialized detailed planning plan under para. 2 or 3 shall be made, agreed, accepted and approved under the terms and conditions of para. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 28 with the replacement which the Commission proposes in the text of para. 3. And the second text is the version which the Commission proposes for the wording of § 30, which becomes § 29. They voted 101 MPs: 93, none, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u38	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 33. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 34, as in para. 2 and 3 after the words the projects in question are added. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u39	Statements? I won't. I'll put five texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 30. The second text of § 32, which becomes § 31. The third text...................................................................................... The fourth text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 33. And the fifth text of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 34 with the replacement in the text of para. 2 and 3, which the Commission proposes. Vote 96 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u40	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112p the words "design plans' shall be replaced by the detailed planning plans for ports and specialized ports, and the words "designation, approval' shall be replaced by "production, coordination and approval'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 36, which shall become § 35. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u42	Under § 37, there is a proposal from the MP Nikolai Tishev: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 37: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112r, para. 1, Izr. First, after the word "Elements', the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications' shall be replaced by the port owner or terminal owner and shall be replaced by the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112c the following amendments and additions are made: (a) para. 3 is amended as follows: The main architect of the municipality shall give the permission under para. 1 within 14 days of the date of the request, if the conditions laid down in para. 1 and 2. (b) para. Five and six down. (c) para. 7 becomes para. 5, and in that sentence, the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Chapter 4, Section IV is created art. 112 pcs " 112" 112t: Art. 112p. (1) On the territory of ports for public transport and of ports under art. 107 " 109" may be inserted: 1. moving objects and information elements directly related to the process of providing port services or to the activity of achieving port security; 2. Moveable amusement objects and moving objects for commercial and other service activities, as well as advertising and monumental-decorative elements. (2) Objects under para. 1 shall be connected to existing networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure with temporary connections where necessary for their normal operation. Art. 112c. (1) Application for authorisation of placing of objects under art. 112r, para. 1 may submit: 1. the owner of a port or port terminal; 2. port operator which performs in a port for public transport or in a terminal from such port port port services under art. 116, para. 3, p. 2. (2) Permission to place objects under art. 112r, para. 1, as well as for temporary links to them, shall be given by: 1. the master of the port for sites under art. 112r, para. 1, t. 1; 2. by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or a person authorised by him for sites under art. 112r, para. 1, t. 2. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 to the request for authorisation to place an object under art. 112r, para. 1, t. 2 shall also apply the express written consent of the owner of the port, respectively of the terminal. (4) Where the application is for the placing of a monumental-decorative element, the authorisation for placing shall be issued in coordination under the terms and conditions of the Cultural Heritage Act, (5) The conditions and procedures for granting permission to place, as well as the requirements to be met by the objects referred to in art. 112r, para. 1 shall be governed by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. (6) Refusal to grant an authorisation for placing shall be ordered where: 1. the owner of the port, respectively of the terminal, is not gave his consent to place an object under art. 112r, para. 1, t. 2 at the request of the port operator; 2. in the cases under para. 4 coordination has been refused under the terms and conditions of the Cultural Heritage Act; 3. the type of the specific object under art. 112r, para. 1 does not correspond to the purpose of the port, respectively of the terminal; 4. the type of the specific object under art. 112r, para. 1 does not correspond to the functional purpose of the port area, respectively, of the terminal in which it is intended to be placed; 5. placing and/or using the specific object or an element may create a danger to port security, to the safe operation of port activities and services, or to the proper functioning of navigational means. Art. 112. (1) Objects under art. 112r, para. 1 shall be removed when: 1. are placed without authorisation or contrary to the authorisation granted; 2. do not meet any of the requirements of art. 169, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 3. as a result of circumstances arising after placing them, constitute a danger to the security of the port, to the safe operation of port activities and services, or to the proper functioning of navigation means; 4. represent an advertisement prohibited by law; 5. The authorisation for placing has expired. (2) The circumstances of para. 1 shall be established by a constitutional act drawn up by inspectors of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, engaging in control functions of the capacity of ports. (3) An order for removal shall be issued by the master of the port within 7 days of the service of the constitutional act under para. 2. The order also lays down a deadline for the removal of the object. (4) The procedure for drawing up and serving the consolidated acts under para. 2 for the submission of objections against them and for the forced removal of objects where the object specified in the order under para. 3 the period for removal is not respected, shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 112c, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u43	Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First on our proposal, in two words, what we have done to correct some inaccuracies in the Bill, namely to separate these areas from the ports where there is free access to citizens, that is, those areas that have been converted into parks, alleys, gardens and streets. There really makes sense to have a sanction on the chief architect when advertisements or other moving objects are placed. That's first. Secondly, we want to make better coordination between these changes, which are in this law and the Law on the Construction of the Area art. 56, para. 2, where it is very clearly recorded how temporary moving objects of state properties are located. Separately, we are putting some restriction, however, because in the Bill is not at stake on the term in which the chief architect to grant permission for those areas that are free of access to the moving objects. Last but not least, and very important, in the Bill, and also in other proposals, it is envisaged that when placing moving objects or advertisements should be approved a scheme by the Minister of Transport should be granted permission by the Minister of Transport, which for us is pointless. We can't keep an entire minister busy with where to put 50-50 ads or a trash can. It doesn't make sense. Or a chemical toilet. It is within the authority, but it is pointless to engage an entire minister in such activities, which are either done according to a scheme by the chief architect of the municipality, or when they are placed it does not pass through the main architect at all. And so that I don't take the speech word twice for the proposal of my colleagues. They shall be assigned to the master of the port, i.e. the boss of the Sea Administration, the functions of authorising temporary or movable sites in a territory used for port services. Colleagues, we, a few years ago, anyway, introduced the Port Administration into the Sea Administration, which has precisely such functions. If a moving object interferes with navigation in the port or any advertisement prevents or does not meet the safety requirements in the port and at the moment the boss of the Sea Administration may take action to remove them. It's his duty. That one. And secondly, instead of lightening the entire procedure, namely to unload the minister with these small things, we are now going to write a new regulation, not only will he issue permissions for any small moving objects that are not related to the operation of the port, which, as I have already said, may also be a bench. For a bench, we'll ask permission from the minister! The administration will have to draw up a regulation on the terms and conditions of the ruling. And in the Commission, I gave an example. With these changes that the Commission has adopted, it is the following: in order to put a stand meter per meter per meter for 1 March with martenitsas in front of the administrative building at any port, which is, however, on the territory of the port where port services are carried out, you must ask the Minister's permission. At least for us this is ridiculous and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, two proposals have been made in this direction in principle. The reason for this is a discussion of the Bill carried out a year ago and on which this issue has been raised, as the Law on Construction in our territory gives us a very complex regime and for a moving object or any other facility to be placed, this regime is so complex that the ship may already have landed, gone away and has not yet been granted permission. For this reason, the Ministry has submitted a special way and order in which to place and accordingly remove these moving objects and elements. This way or order we have examined it very thoroughly in the Commission and found that there are a lot of inaccuracies. That is why we have proposed another solution, which we believe will greatly ease the work. Unlike our colleagues, we do not introduce such an access zone as there is only in Varna and in Burgas, that is, the law that is being done cannot be done only for these two ports, but must apply to all ports and also give a solution to the problem which exists and which the port operators are currently facing. We have therefore considered these sites and facilities as two separate options, in one of which they are related to the technological process and to the security of operation of the port itself. We are talking about sheds, cabins or relevant security facilities. Then permission shall be granted to the master of the port. And when the facilities are under the Law on a device in the territory for moving objects or promotional information facilities, then already authorisation is granted by the Minister of Transport or by a person authorised by him. For more details, we believe that a regulation must be made which is agreed in the Ministry of Transport and which must be ready in 4 months. We believe that this will solve the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! More like a comment, not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u49	It can't be a comment, Mr. Tishev, it's just a line you make.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u50	A comment that contains a line. When we pass a law, it shouldn't contradict anyone else. In the Law on Marine Spaces nowhere in the Transitional and Final Provisions we do not lay down the fact that specifically for ports in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria does not apply art. 56, para. Two to ZUT. Because it says so, about how temporary moving sites are placed: "For state and municipal properties on the basis of a scheme approved by the chief architect of the municipality. For state property, the scheme is approved after coordination in the respective central administration that owns the property. "We do not cancel it, but in this law we now bet that only the head or the head of the Sea Administration, or the minister, give permission to place such objects, and in ZUT it says that there should be coordination with the chief architect as well. This, one. Secondly, since we are laying down such a procedure, including by writing a regulation for the ports, whether river or sea in Bulgaria, well, then let us touch the other legislation and set such requirements for airports and railway stations and for bus stations, the same part of the transport infrastructure of the country. Why only for sea and river ports must we do such a aggravated procedure in which, for the smallest thing, we ask permission from the Minister? Let's turn on the airports and the railway infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Will you use the right to the back, Mr. Valkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u52	Dear Mr. Tishev, in the end we have a special order which we offer, and this is in the special Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. And now, at the moment, for the order and security of shipping, the loading and unloading activities that are being carried out in the ports are responsible for the master of the port. He's got such functions replaced by law anyway. In addition, ports are public government property and the principle of ports is the Minister of Transport. He issued the complex permit, so he was responsible for this kind of activity. In addition, we have proposed, in addition to the Minister, a person authorised by him to issue these permits. So I don't see any problem with this being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u53	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Any other speeches? I won't. Before I vote on the texts, fellow Members, we have guests from the town of Radomir who are on the balcony. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] I put to the vote first the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Nikolay Tishev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 33, against 59, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission to the wording of § 37, which shall become § 36. They voted 114 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40. Under § 42, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group in accordance with Article 42. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 42, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 1b is amended as follows: .................................................................................. The transmission of the waste results of shipping activity and the residues of ship cargo shall be deemed to be release for free circulation within the meaning of art. 201 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs Code (OJ L 269/1 of 10 October 2013).). No entry summary declaration is required under art. 127 of the same Regulation. 2. Paragraph 1e is inserted: ...................................................................................... (1) The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall provide the European Commission with information on the participants in the maritime spatial planning process, which shall include: 1. the name and address of the competent authority; 2. information on the legal status, functions and role in the maritime spatial planning process of the competent authority; 3. the names of the bodies and organisations involved in the maritime spatial planning process; 4. information on the legal status, functions and role in the maritime spatial planning process of each of the participating bodies and organisations; 5. a description of the institutional links established to ensure coordination between the participants in the maritime spatial planning process; 6. a brief description of the mechanisms created to ensure coordination between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania in the maritime spatial planning process. (2) The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall inform the European Commission of any change in the data under para. 1 within 6 months of its arrival. 3. Paragraph 2 shall make the following additions: (a) c. A sentence two is created: "Inflammation is also present in cases of deliberate or accidental human input into the marine or river environment of alien or new organisms that cause or may cause the harmful effects referred to in the first sentence.' (b) To be created t. 51: "51." It is a policy aimed at promoting coordinated and coherent decision-making to achieve maximum results in terms of sustainable development, economic growth and social cohesion of Member States, in particular with regard to coastal, island and outermost regions in the EU, as well as sea-related sectors through concerted sea-related policies and relevant international cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: a text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 37 and which shall be supported by the Commission; a text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40, which shall become § 39 and which shall be supported by the Commission; a text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40 and which shall be supported by the Commission; the version which the Commission shall propose for the text of § 42, which shall become § 41. Vote 112 MPs: 98 against 5, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u56	The Commission proposes to establish an additional provision with a new § 42: "Additional provision' § 42. This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning (OJ L 257,/135 of 28 August 2014.) "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22, para. 1 Finally a comma is placed and added in accordance with the predictions of the sea spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u57	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the first text is the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Additional provisions' with a new § 42 text, which was submitted by the rapporteur on a proposal from the Commission; the second text is the text of the importer for the name of the "Transitional and final provisions', which is supported by the Commission; the next text is the text of the importer for § 43 which is supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 44 supported by the Commission; the last text is the version proposed by the Commission in the text of § 45. They voted 105 MPs: 98, none, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 47. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47: ss ss s s s s s The Council of Ministers shall adopt the National Search and Rescue Plan within 9 months from the date of the entry into force of this Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 48, as in para. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ 51b, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 49. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Council of Ministers shall adopt the Maritime Space Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria by 31 March 2021. (2) The requirement for compliance with the Marine Space Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not apply to projects of detailed spatial plans under art. 52b, para. 1, specialized detailed design plans under art. ) (a.k.a. 1 and specialized schemes under art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, submitted for approval until its adoption. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u59	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 46, which shall be supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 47; the text of the importer for § 48 with the amendments to the text proposed by the Commission and presented by the rapporteur; the version of the text of § 49 proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 50, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 2, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u60	Under § 51, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 51. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Within 6 months from the date of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall conduct a procedure to coordinate the draft plot plans for the aquators of existing ports under art. ==References=====External links==* "Maritime Administration"* "Maritime Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military Administration"* "Military (2) The agreed projects under para. 1 with attached sketch-extract from the existing detailed plan for port territory shall be sent in service to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for adoption and approval. In these cases, no art. ) (a.k.a. 4. Under § 52, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 52. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Owners of specialized port sites under art. 111a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 111b, para. 1 shall state their rights to enter in the register referred to in (2) To the application under para. 1 a draft specialized detailed development plan under art. 1 shall be implemented. ) (a.k.a. 3 reflective of the existing situation. (3) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall conduct a procedure for coordinating the projects of specialized detailed planning plans under para. 2 and send them to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for acceptance and approval. In these cases, no art. ) (a.k.a. 4. (4) The entry of the specialized port establishment in the register under art. 92, para. 4 shall be carried out within one month of the entry into force of the order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for approval of the project under para. 2 and after issue of a certificate of suitability. Under § 53, there is a proposal from the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and (2) Until the issue of the ordinance under art. 116, para. 4 The regulation of the repealed para 4 shall apply. 4 of art. 237 of the Commercial Transport Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 51; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 52; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 53. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Mr. Tanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 February 2018, a Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments was discussed, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Acting Head of Staff of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Director of Legal Department at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Maritime Administration and Mrs. Pavlinka Kovacheva, Director of the Ministry of Transport and Transport Services. The bill was presented by Mr. Zanchev. The International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments since 2004. The Convention provides for the adoption of appropriate rules for the control of operations with ship's ballast waters and the prevention of the spread of non-domestic marine organisms which are characterised by high adaptability and may have serious negative environmental and economic effects on the host environment, including public health. Mr. Zanchev noted that the Convention entered into force on 8 September 2017. Two working groups in 2014 and 2015 considered the appropriateness of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Convention and concluded that it is in the interest of the Republic of Bulgaria to accede to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's Ballard Waters and sediments after its entry into force. Mr. Zanchev pointed out that art. 3, § 3 of the Convention introduces a regime for the so-called more favourable treatment of ships flying the flag of States not Parties to the Convention. The practical consequence of this provision is that ships flying the Bulgarian flag and visiting ports of the States Parties to the Convention will be required to meet the requirements of the Convention, whether the Republic of Bulgaria has joined it or not. On the other hand, if the Republic of Bulgaria does not accede to the Convention, the State will not have the right to exercise control and inspect ships flying the flag of a State Party visiting or operating in its maritime areas. Next, the research carried out at national and regional level on the Black Sea waters shows that more than 230 marine organisms, part of which have a negative effect on local flora and/or fauna, have been imported as a result of increasing ship traffic, and have a negative impact on the economic use of marine living resources. In accordance with art. 17 of the Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States as provided for in their national legislation. In order to achieve full compliance between the requirements of the Convention and the provisions of domestic law and to grant the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria the necessary powers to effectively apply the right to impose penalties provided for in the Convention in the event of non-compliance with its provisions, it is necessary to supplement the definition of "pollution of the marine or river environment' as laid down in § 2, p. 11 of the "Additional provisions" of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. This compliance is achieved by the proposed § 1 of the Concluding provisions of the draft law. Mr. Halil Letifov drew attention to the fact that in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. In this connection, the MPs unanimously decided to offer the National Assembly the name of the Board of Appeal. The name of the Board of Directors is the one and only paragraph of the Law on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments to drop out, taking into account in their systematic place in the report on the second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a bill for ratification of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water follows. Here you go, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. At a meeting held on 8 February 2018, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Captain Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mr. Valentin Yovev Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Iliana Todorova Director of the Directorate of Water Management at the Ministry of Environment and Water, and Mrs. Galina Balusheva Chief Expert in the same Directorate. The bill and its motives were presented by Mr. Zanchev, who stressed that the aim is to approve the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments. He pointed out that the Convention has been in force since 8 September 2017 and is an instrument that ensures a harmonised approach to control, environmental management and discharge of ballast waters from ships at international level. A mechanism shall also be provided to prevent the spread of non-domestic organisms to the marine environment concerned, which may have serious negative effects of an environmental and economic nature. Mr. Zanchev pointed out that the implementation of the Convention requires supplementing the definition of pollution of the marine or river environment, contained in § 2, item 2. 11 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Deputy Minister also pointed out additional circumstances that support the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Convention. This will also support the implementation of measure 16 "Development and implementation of a common action plan for early detection, mitigation and assessment of the impact of non-local species" by the Maritime Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 1111 of 2016. Ms. Todorova noted that the Ministry of Environment and Water supports and reconciles the bill. She stressed the need to ratify the Convention and in relation to the adopted Maritime Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria on detection and taking action against non-local species. She pointed out that a monitoring programme for the establishment of non-local species was developed as part of the measures to achieve a good state of the marine environment. The President of the Committee on Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva and the MPs Manol Genov and Rumen Georgiev took a position on the proposed draft. After the end of the discussion and the vote held the Committee on Environment and Waters with 20 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Admiral Manushev, please submit the Foreign Policy Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the First Voting of the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments At its regular meeting on 21 February 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments aims to contribute to the achievement of concrete results of the 21st United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). One of the measures is the adoption of rules under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation. It is of Bulgarian interest that the Black Sea, such as a semi-closed sea with vulnerable ecosystems, should be protected from both pollution and the transfer of alien species to the ecosystem, for which the Convention provides opportunities. By ratification of the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria will also respond to the call of the European Council and Council of the European Union under Regulation (EU) 1143/2014 of 22 October 2014. The Final provision of the Bill complements § 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Seaspaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, which harmonises the Bulgarian law with the provisions of the Convention. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted 15 MPs, without the opposition and the abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed that the National Assembly adopt, on the basis of the results of the vote, a bill ratifying the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. Admiral. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments, No 802-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments to be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Letifov to examine the bill at second reading. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u70	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments A single member. Ratification of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments adopted at the diplomatic conference held at the headquarters of the International Maritime Organisation in London on 13 February 2004 In the light of the Commission's decision, I propose that the name of the section of the Final provision and paragraph alone of the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments be removed: "Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In § 2, t. 11 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria are created sentence two: "Consequences are also present in the cases of deliberate or accidental introduction by a person into the marine or river environment of alien or new organisms which cause or may cause the harmful consequences referred to in the sentence first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Law on ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments with the text proposed by the President of the Commission, Mr Letifov. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. This concludes the legislative part of the meeting, honourable Members. We continue with Parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u72	Dear colleagues, we begin with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 9 March to 16 March 2018 There has been a question from the MP Krasimir Yankov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning Bulgaria's policy for Bulgaria's accession to the Banking Union in the European Union. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 March 2018. A question has been received from the MP Ivo Hristov to Ekaterina Zaharieva.. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the policy for the development of bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 March 2018. Written responses were received from: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. We begin with the answers included in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Krasimir Valchev will be the first to respond to the Minister of Education and Science. Before that, I give the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group of Mr. Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, a public discussion was held yesterday in the National Assembly building, where all the groups were invited, but only the political party group responded. None of you have shown up, and we give it more to serious law-making work than deserting from this problem that we want to introduce you to. The professional syndicate of Bulgarian artists together with representatives of the Bulgarian Social Democratic Party presented us with ideas for changes in the Gambling Act to support Bulgarian culture and sport. Perhaps there are people in this room who, when they hear about changes in the rules of gambling in the direction of some of the proceeds of gambling bosses to be reduced, begin to worry. I understand them, but as I have said before: since we from Volja.. we are in parliament.... nothing will be the same anymore. For some time through irrigation advertisements of the Bulgarian he has been suggested that not through labor, education, personal growth, personal qualities, but by rubbing cards and hanging in gambling halls can become successful and rich. It is obvious that after the chalgarization of the state is now under way a process of gambling is under way as we call it and introduce a new term. As true patriots and patriots, we are seriously worried about this. That is why we are predicting soon to submit prepared proposals for changes that were the subject of the discussion yesterday. We have proposals, the issue is open and I hope that more and more parliamentary and extraparliamentary parties, NGOs, cultural actors, people related to sport will take an active part and, if necessary, we will correct something in the original proposal that we have made. In these changes of the discussion yesterday, it was about the figures of 1% of the gambling revenue to go specifically to the budgets of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Sports and to be in support of the people involved in sports and culture. This, of course, is a funny little, given what a huge role culture and sport play in the spiritual and physical health of the nation. Therefore, I myself, in addition to the proposal of the cultural activists, said the following. After all, and according to the people who were at the discussion, there is absolutely illegal advertising of gambling activities within tens of millions of levs, we say: "If you are going to discredit the Bulgarian people and the young generation, at least as much money as you spend on advertising for this debauchery and debauchery, so much money to spend on culture and for sport. "This is the additional offer from us in this sense, or to stop these advertisements, or if they are going to spend millions on advertising, to spend as much on culture and sports. Actress Tamara Voice said that since the 1990s artists in Bulgaria have heard the same from politicians: there will be money. They only hear: "I will and in the end nothing as a result. " They shared that both in this Parliament and in the previous ones there were people who were part of their guild and were in ministerial positions and even they could not deal with this problem and help in some way the development of culture in Bulgaria. The theatre director Georgi Mihalkov, who worked in Beijing, Paris, Moscow and returned to work at home, said to me: "This conversation has been going on for more than 25 years. Ministers came to power with the promise that they would first do just that, but nothing happened. Apparently, this barrier, called the Ministry of Finance, is like the Great Wall of China, which is impenetrable. If they have to, they'll get on the carts and still go around villages and palanquins, that not by pulling the plug on him is what stops the art. Politicians must and can ensure not its existence, but rather the extras, although artists have long been accustomed to handling themselves without them. Colleagues, do you realize that in the 21st century, in European Bulgaria for the most normal support for culture, we are talking about some extra. I will make a clamp: the last days it became clear that Bulgaria will allocate 81 million for a pile of old iron. lv. I don't know what you're talking about. Every wealthy person has faced this problem when buying useless toys and then collided with their senseless support. However, he does so with his personal means, and we are currently spending state money on maintenance of a pile of old iron, which is absolutely unnecessary for Bulgaria. At the same time, the cultural workers, the people of sports, the doctors, the pensioners all are miserable. Let's think about whether we should invest billions of dollars in a pile of toys, literally, because they're not doing any work for us, so that only a few people can scratch their scabs and a few others can absorb the commissions from this activity. In recent years, I've watched you put singers, artists, athletes on your lists. You shoot with them at election rallies and count on their fans to become your constituents. Why then, when you sit here, do nothing to create conditions for these guilds to work normally and with dignity? Yesterday, the cultural figures pointed out to me that the change in the Gambling Act is an election promise and is part of the program of the ruling coalition. I understand that an attempt has been made in 2014 for such a change, but, unfortunately, it has gone nowhere again. Colleagues, for us from the "Volja" as pragmatists and people, as people accustomed to dealing quickly and effectively with all sorts of topics, not solving a problem for decades is, to put it mildly, unacceptable. There's no excuse for that. We will therefore expect a great union here in plenary around this bill and we will rely on the artists, artists and athletes in your groups to forget which party they are elected from and to lobby before all of you for support of the Bulgarian culture and sport, for the health and moral development of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. There is another declaration to follow on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria is the heart of the Bulgarian statehood, an institution which is called upon to guarantee democracy and to deter the executive power from subjectivism and behaviour, to ensure a fair and sustainable framework and to safeguard the power of the state Bulgaria. The rulers often forget the foundations on which we have to build our activities, and even more often turn the National Assembly into a body that protects or fosters someone else's or private interests. In some cases, this borders on pointless, unimaginable activities such as political selfishness and shortsightedness. In this case, it is precisely the Ministry of Interior. This composition of the government between GERB and the United Patriarchs is the first to allow themselves to disarm the Ministry of Interior, to offer it in a piece of privates, to trade with the most valuable of Bulgarian citizens the security, health, life and ownership of them. The law on private security is one of the most dangerous precedents in modern legislation. He actually gives away the sphere, which is the holy saint of every state.. security. It is a gateway to returning well-known security guards from the first years of transition. Two institutions have already described it as anti-constitutional, namely the Prosecutor General and the President. The Prosecutor General's Office says, quote: "Even in the exercise of political rights as a vote will be influenced by the people who have chosen the mayor. " For his part, President Radev also points out that public order is a value that supports the integrity of society, and its conservation activities must comply with the rules of the Constitution and the laws, and they entrust it to certain public authorities. According to the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the Law is an abdication of the state from the care of Bulgarian citizens, who through their taxes give it responsibility for their security. The Law on Private Security is definitely legitimizing the irresponsibility and absolute weakness of this government. It provides in the hands of the mayors a new resource for organizing public procurement and pouring money into its companies, which are politically correct. They will probably not only protect people physically, but also ensure that their political orientation is correct and loyal to the person who appointed them, namely the mayor. This law is an extreme insult to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who are working under extremely difficult conditions. The idea of Minister Radev is after the entry into force of the Law to release the redundant employees and the rest to work according to purpose. And what do the government now tell them when they gave them the extra 100 million? They say, in fact, you're too expensive for us. We'll make it much cheaper to hire outsiders. But being a cop and being an employee of a private security firm, that's two different things, with all due respect to both of them. The Ministry of Interior is one of the guardians of statehood, and behind each employee stands the state with all its power or at least so it should be. But where is the state today? It's for sale. Strategic infrastructure goes from one private hand to another private hand. Inercom and Mrs. Ginka Varbakova are reaching out for the electricity distribution. Private interests will enter the Ministry of Interior. Perhaps the next step is to formally give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a concession to seek an external contractor and the foreign policy of the state. Colleagues from the ruling coalition, you've come too far. The state is not just yours to dispose of. It is a different category of those categories that you are accustomed to ordering. You are accustomed to buying everything, selling everything, renting or concession, but the Ministry of Interior is a particularly important link to defending the state and democracy. However, you are tearing this link not only into this law, but also turning the Ministry of Interior into a tool for dealing with the political opponent and turning it into political pressure. With its almost 140-year history, the Ministry of Interior is about to become an empty content and function structure that performs only political orders. Nine years since GERB was in power. The reform was launched during the first government of Mr. Boyko Borisov and Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov. He subsequently continued through Mrs. Bachvarova, and now Minister Radev is in the final. And they all create a new structure with a task of pursuing the political opponent. For the employees of the purpose are an example of the actions of employees of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The city of Shumen, who decide to check the activities of the local organization and structures of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Data are required whether certain persons are members of the party, minutes of meetings of the party body are required for a whole year, minutes of meetings of delegates' meetings, copies of lists of attendance. To what end, besides controlling the political opponent and holding on to a short occasion? The case has also been notified by the Prosecutor General, who checks and finds that a significant part of the information requested by a letter from the Ministry of Interior District Directorate Shumen, from the General Party Control Commission of BSP goes beyond the scope and limits of the inspection by the District Prosecutor's Office. The collection of this information, in addition to being irrelevant to the subject of the inspection, was not entrusted at all by the Prosecutor's Office, but was initiated by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. On 14 February this year, Minister Radev told the media that he has scheduled an internal inspection to determine what happened. One month later, there continues to be no information on who overstepped his rights and for what purpose he did it. This is a precedent that can be studied Christomatically as an example of total abuse of the principles of democracy and the intervention of the Ministry of Interior in the political life of a party. The case, however, is not an isolated phenomenon. It is a public secret that the Ministry of Interior, the NRA and the other institutions are used as a political bat during elections, and not only for them. In Shumen, however, for the first time, the insolence reached the point that the government was not worried about leaving a written, documentary trail of direct interference with the organizational and party life of a party and abuse of information. Moreover, other information is investigating racketeering of NRA employees. According to the producer, there's been a leak from the police, and the people we checked have been alerted. What is this, if not an attempt to cover up tracks and cover up crimes? While the efforts of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and its chiefs in the Council of Ministers are aimed at privatizing part of its activities and improving it as a tool for pressure and racketeering, a huge field is released for crime and it is whirlwinded. It's hard to get the stats on the home invasions. Despite their alleged decline of about 19% compared to 2016, it is clear that only 25% of home thefts have been discovered, or this is a quarter of them. The Ministry of Interior also reported 8% less registered phone fraud in 2017 compared to 2016. In the past year, 198 of these mass crimes, just over 15% of those registered, were also discovered. On the other hand, the profit of criminals is about 5 million. lv. have been taken from the citizens only for the past year. And while the business of criminals is growing, and the Ministry of Interior is also dealing with business, selling parts of themselves and respecting the political opponents of the government, citizens are left at random. And this is a dangerous, terrifying division between people and the state. The division is dangerous in both perspective and disrupting the ties in society, taking away the perspective and energy for the development of the state. We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not stand by and will not leave the destruction of statehood. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. [[Noise and lines.]] We continue with the actual part of parliamentary control. A question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science within the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union for the creation of a mechanism for exchange of information for tracing the training of children who migrate with their parents to other European countries and to facilitate the inclusion of returned students in the education system. [[GERB lines.]] Do you want the declaration to be now and not after the first question? Here you are, you have the floor for a declaration on behalf of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! It is very easy, it is very nice and it sounds very good to the populist policy that some parties have been leading in the Bulgarian Parliament in recent months, to play with people's fear, to play with it the most important desire of people to live in security, to live and to work in peace. When you manipulate the facts, however, when you manipulate these fundamental desires of the Bulgarians and people at all, that is already dangerous! And here I never believed that I would say that I agree with colleagues from BSP, but playing with the fears of people on the topic of Security is dangerous for the state. It is dangerous for the state, because everything you say must meet the facts when you talk about security, and the facts are clear.. There is not a single step away from the obligations that the Ministry of Interior has with regard to public order security in the Republic of Bulgaria! There's no such thing! There is not a single text, not a single word in any Bulgarian law adopted in recent years, which will take away the rights of Bulgarian citizens and the Ministry of Interior! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Finally, when a Bulgarian institution, colleagues, implements its constitutional and legal rights to submit to the Constitutional Court a text from one law, and this is the right one, and this is the way the state should work, when you have doubts, to submit them there, to practice and to ride the wave politically, it is dangerous for national security! When a law passes its natural order and is with the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic signed it January month, and submitted to the Constitutional Court a text of it months later, this is not the way and way of legislation in Bulgaria! Finally, let me tell you, colleagues! It is strange to me when a political party, having its own alternative, I do not know what alternative, because what it thinks will not happen soon, comes out and says: "We are concerned about the fact that the Ministry is giving up its duties, it is right and I am obliged to remind you of what this same party did when it had the opportunity, unfortunately, to govern. The only structure of the Ministry of Interior, which once had the right to guard citizens' property, and this lecture will have to be delivered, was the SOT to the Ministry of Interior. And we need to remember... [[(Replyings and calls from the BSP for Bulgaria:...................................................................................................... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, ……]] No, it won't be easier, because when you play with the fears of Bulgarian citizens, it can't be easier! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And then, when you closed down and sold the Ministry of Interior Security Service to those who had the right to guard property on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, then you had problems with the fact that the market was distorting, these are the words of a colleague of yours from last night! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when the management of Prime Minister Oresharski appointed by lists from your party plants by districts illiterate, uneducated and not entitled to carry out any security activity, remember what was written in your program. Then, colleagues, were you concerned about the retreat of the Ministry of Interior?! [[Applause from GERB.]] And now that there is a Law, you are concerned! I repeat: one thing is institutional work when the Attorney General decides that there is a text that is problematic for him to give to the Constitutional Court, that is normal, that is the state. But when a political party struggling to become an alternative is playing along with it, it is no longer normal! Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB, calls:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Manov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kutev, I don't know what procedure you want, but the declarations still allow a little more freedom. Come in, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u79	Thank you, Madam President. The procedure in the manner of conduct is for you, with the clear awareness that parliamentary declarations must allow for many opportunities, but in any case do not allow this tone. Someone scolding me and telling me that the parliamentary tribune is saying something that threatens national security, the least of which is unacceptable. You should not allow it, whether it is a declaration of a parliamentary group or a simple statement of a person who does not control his nerves. There is no way to accuse me of speaking from the parliamentary stand in any way endangering her. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] No, you have a way to do it. Only when you do that, you actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u80	Mr. Kutev, to me, not to Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u81	...breaking the rules, order and democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u82	To me in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u83	And I would like to appeal to you, too, if we are really able to maintain a normal tone here, to observe at least the decibels. It's true that in this room we've been screaming, screaming many times, but the way we're talking right now, it's not serious to me. There's no way this is gonna be... but let's not talk about these, because in everything you've said, there's a bunch of crap, like the fact that the Ministry of Interior doesn't actually have the right to business.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u84	Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u85	But I don't pay any attention to these guys. It's about other things.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u86	Mr. Kutev, I accept the remark about the decibels. True, there's something to be desired, but there's no way to lower the tone. [[GERB lines.]] I will not give you the floor in the manner of conduct. You made an affidavit. No! We're shutting down the procedure in the manner of conduct. Let's give Mrs. Donka Simeonova a chance to ask her own question to the Minister of Education and Science. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister, Ministers! Dear Mr. Valchev, taking into account the implementation of the activities of the mechanism for joint work of the institutions to cover and detain children at school, the Ministry of Education and Science concluded that a significant percentage of students who are undergraduate are actually with their parents abroad. Sadly, there are almost no statistics on how many students abroad are.......... whether they have settled there permanently or are working seasonally with their parents, are they continuing their education or not? The Ministry of Education and Science announced that within the framework of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union a proposal will be made to launch a European pilot initiative to monitor the training of children in different European countries. At the same time, however, the issue of bringing children back and integrating them into the educational system is also extremely important. At my foster and on various other occasions, parents say that they actually have difficulty recognising the documents of education they received abroad and also when accepting students and creating conditions in the Bulgarian education system at their return. Regulation No 11 of 1 September 2016 lays down the procedures and arrangements for the recognition of documents. Colleagues - Directors of Schools [[the President signals that time has run out]] and officials of regional inspectors also share their difficulty in carrying out this procedure. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, to answer the question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science within the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union for the creation of a mechanism for the exchange of information for tracing the training of students who migrate with their parents to other European countries and to facilitate the inclusion of returned students in the education system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u88	Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Simeonova, the question you have raised has two aspects. The first is related to tracking the right to education of children on the journey of their parents. The second is what measures are taken for their inverse integration in the educational system of Bulgaria after their return. When we talk about mobility, it is clear that we are living in times where the tendency for such mobility is mainly increasing. The possibility that free movement within the European Union also contributes to this is what we are talking about both lasting and episode mobility. What we have found during the work of the mechanism is that very much in recent years this episode mobility has increased, where children along with their parents travel and return. The Bulgarian Presidency is working on the Council's recommendation on common values, inclusive education and the European dimension in teaching. The scope of the topic also includes searching for ways to prevent students from dropping out of the formal education system. Promoting mobility and enabling free movement as an expression of strengthening the European identity in the field of education, seeking a solution in discussing opportunities to facilitate and mutual recognition of education in the Member States within the framework of secondary education as a possible future recommendation of the Council. The topic of joint work of the institutions and states was set by me to discuss during the lunch of the education ministers within the Educational, Youth, Culture and Sports Council on February 15th. The advance letter was sent by me to the education ministers. The results of the work on the mechanism for joint work of the institutions in Bulgaria and the challenges related to the transnational dimension were presented by the other Member States. The topic was adopted with great interest by both the other ministers and the Commissioner for Education and Culture, youth and sport Mr Navracsics. During our Presidency, we will continue to place the topic on the agenda in different formats. We plan on affecting it in the Council conclusions that will be adopted at the Education, Youth and Culture Council in the education part on 22 May this year. We will continue to seek the support of the European Commission to initiate a study of the problem at European level and identify good practices in this area from other Member States. These efforts should not be only within the Presidency and should not only be at a common European level. Our opinion and what we will be trying to do in the coming months under bilateral relations is to seek the creation of such a mechanism to monitor the exercise of the right to education within the European Union. The right to free movement should not be at the expense of exercising the right to education of children, which is actually the duty of parents. The fact is that there are information problems even within a country when children travel with their parents. If you allow me, I will briefly address the second aspect of the issue in order to facilitate students from seventh to twelfth grade to submit documents for recognition in the relevant Regional Management of Education in place of residence and after enrolling in school to make equal exams in Bulgarian language and literature. Sunday schools are also an opportunity for reverse integration in the educational system. We will also propose changes to the Regulation for admission to higher schools to enable inclusion in the Bulgarian system of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u90	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Here you are, Mrs. Simeonova, to make a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u91	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I took the liberty of putting this question, understanding how much time, strength, means, desire and will it takes to be resolved. I am putting it because at the numerous meetings with directors, teachers and other representatives of the educational community we have had the opinion that during the Presidency of Bulgaria we have a chance to make proposals that will facilitate education not only of Bulgarian children abroad. Because, as you have said, the free movement of people in the European Union is an emphasis in all strategic documents, and therefore the growing mobility of the citizens of the European Union must also be accompanied by the growing mobility of the European Union's educational system. Many children will continue to travel with their parents and the responsibility for their education should also be for state institutions. I allow myself to make the following proposals that have been sent to us after a summary of the various meetings and conversations. Firstly, we would like, in addition to working for such an information system, which allows for the follow-up of students' training, to have special modules in which there is information about education in each of the countries of the European Union. Directors have access to see as a model a document of completion, e.g. basic, secondary education in a country, because they say they find it difficult to recognise documents from abroad. To have an example reference to the subjects studied, to the choir, how to align the grades. To have information packages in the relevant language that allow parents to show how their children can be included in the relevant educational system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally: it is clear that we must work with great effort, will and desire to synchronise the educational system in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Dear Minister Valchev, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u93	Dear Mrs Simeonova, thank you for both the question and the proposals. This is a topic that we are very committed to in the context of the mechanism for the joint work of the institutions. In fact, these are the voices from the system that we hear, these are the proposals that we are working on. We need to be able to significantly multi-hour additional training to overcome the educational difficulties of those children who are returning to the system so that they can be integrated. Because we have come across many cases where they have gone abroad, they have returned to this episodic employment, which I am talking about, they have become 10 years old and need considerable compensation for a deficit, because they have only spent a few months in the education system in one or the other country, which is a light for us that we have problems tracking and exercising the right to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u94	Thank you, Minister Valchev. The next question is again raised by the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the payment and reporting of the transport costs of the pedagogical staff. Here you are, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Minister, Ministers! Dear Mr. Valchev, art. 219, para. 5 of the Law on pre-school and school education regulates the right of pedagogical specialists to reimbursement of the costs of transport incurred by them from their place of residence to their place of employment and vice versa, under the terms and conditions laid down in the Ordinance, which was issued by the Minister of Education and Science and is agreed with the Minister of Finance. On that basis, Decree No 1 of 16 January 2017 of the Ministry of Education and Science was issued. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the fact that the project, which was published for discussion on 14 March, made significant proposals and enables all teachers to pay their transport costs, which will make a great contribution to the achievement of the objective of having a greater opportunity to select specialists. At the same time, I am putting you with another question, which is not only exciting to fellow directors, teachers, accountants, representatives of trade unions in the Stara Zagora region, but we have calls from various other areas as well. The concern comes from this good idea of giving travel to all traveling teachers at some point shifts by saying that this will be at the expense of the payout rate. I immediately put this particular question, because a letter from the National Revenue Agency is being distributed to the directors, various interpretations are being made, and it turns out that in some educational institutions the means of transport expenditure are included in the salaries and they are also charged with tax and social security, in other places only social security, one part is waiting for the answer and since January they have not paid any travel. My specific question is: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on how to pay and account for the transport costs of pedagogical specialists, should taxes be withheld and are social insurance due accordingly?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. For an answer the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, the support and reimbursement of the transport costs of pedagogical specialists is important, as more and more teachers live in the nearest town or district center and teach in small and remote settlements. It is increasingly difficult to expect that enough pedagogical specialists will live in small settlements so as to secure the learning process and ensure equal access to education is an important tool for helping teachers. The last maybe six or seven years have been constantly expanding this form of support and perhaps at the beginning of this period these costs were partially reimbursed at either 80 or 80 percent, depending on how it is recorded in the collective agreement. First a legal basis was created, then the regulation was voted and a 100% refund was started. It was restricted to small and remote settlements. With the change in the Preschool and School Education Act, this restriction has been dropped. The right to finance, the reimbursement of rent costs is regulated, you know. And something very important, in our opinion, has also been given the opportunity to recover these costs when travelling by private motor vehicle, as many teachers cannot rely on sufficiently intensive and regular cross-country transport to travel. When you're on the periphery of the area, for example, 40 km, it's much easier to travel by car. They combine and recover these costs. You said the terms and conditions were laid down in Regulation No 1. After checks have been carried out by the National Revenue Agency in the educational institutions, as well as in municipal administrations, mandatory prescriptions have been made, according to which insurance contributions should be made on reimbursements for pedagogical specialists under the regulation. We have been familiar with this problem perhaps for about two months now. Prescriptions shall be made on the basis of an interpretation that the reimbursements are not explicitly mentioned in the exceptions of art. 1, para. 8 of the Ordinance on the elements of remuneration of income on which insurance contributions are made. The NRA has prepared clarifications on the taxation of the transport costs reimbursed, indicating that they are subject to the social security code and the Health Insurance Act. With regard to the tax treatment of transport costs from place of residence to place of business under the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons, the NRA explained by letter of 16 June 2016 that on the basis of art. 24, para. 2, p. 9 of the same law, these costs should not be included in taxable income from employment relations. I mean, we only have a problem with insurance, but not with the tax. In accordance with art. 6 of para. 4 of the Social Security Code, the elements of remuneration as well as the income on which contributions are made shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the National Insurance Institute. In view of the above reason, the Ministry of Education and Science has sent a letter to the Governor of the National Insurance Institute expressing our disagreement with the explanations of the National Insurance Institute, according to which travel money is taxed as income by insurance contributions under the Ordinance on the elements of remuneration and income on which insurance contributions are made. We are still waiting for an answer, but the only argument of the authorities of the NRA is the lack of explicit text in the Ordinance which I referred to. Our opinion, if I have to sum it up briefly, is that this is not a remuneration, it is a reimbursement. There are other forms of assistance to transport, either by paying cards...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u98	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u100	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I was sincerely hoping to hear a clear answer. However, the fact that the Board of Directors is also not in agreement will bring some comfort and a sense of justice. Because it is clear that pedagogical specialists pay the transport costs of their salary. In fact, these funds have already been taxed once and with social security and, if placed a second time, then there will be an unjustified reduction in the salaries of pedagogical specialists, also a reduction in budgets at all and this creates a problem. I have taken responsibility and I would like to present a proposal from colleagues from the Syndicates of the independent teaching union in Sliven and Kazanlak, in which they make a really well-founded proposal for a text in the Ordinance, which would lead to the results we want. I took the responsibility of introducing him to you. This is not beyond March 14th because they have sent it in writing and just sharpen your attention. We hope that there will be a positive response and colleagues will be calm. You are our minister. You know that directors and teachers are disciplined, including responsible, they will strictly follow orders. Thank you. [[The National Representative Donka Simeonova gives a folder of documents to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. With the hope of a positive response, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to, Mr. Secretary. We should thank Krasimir Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. It will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the alleged investment intentions for the construction of the NPP "Belene". Here you are, dear Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Dear Mrs. Petkova, on 2 March 2018 in the Bulgarian Parliament of Inquiry by me and my fellow MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov held a debate on the policy of the government in the field of nuclear energy, and in particular the accumulated problems at the NPP of Belene. After it, you told the media that there was an investment interest, specifically your words were very serious and real to the NPP. At the beginning of the week, you visited the site of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and there again confirmed this thesis by expanding it and mentioning accordingly the company that is interested, and this is the Chinese nuclear corporation CNC. After all the political forces reached a consensus in the plenary and agreed that the completion of the headquarters in Belene is of utmost importance to Bulgaria, is also my question to you, Minister: who are the investors who have officially expressed interest in the project, and what specific conditions do they put in their investment intentions? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mrs. Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for the question you are putting and for the systematic questions you are putting on the agenda of the Bulgarian Parliament related to the NPP project. This is a topic that is really very painful and is on the agenda of Bulgarian energy, even more in the context of the fact that we are currently working on the development of the new energy strategy of the country by 2030, with a horizon by 2050. All decisions that we need to take together with consensus will have a very serious impact on the energy strategy and on the development of the energy sector in Bulgaria. As you have mentioned, I have, at other times, had the opportunity to say to all of you that, in fact, with regard to the NPP project, we have some very serious investments over the years, over 3 billion. lv. Bulgarian taxpayers' money is invested in this project. We have a licensed site; we have a project that was notified to the European Commission at the end of 2007. Since the end of 2016, we have also paid for the equipment that was ordered in 2008. It is already on the site of the NPP "Belene" and I think that all the prerequisites are there so that we can really say that this is an issue that is on the agenda and which we need to decide, I stress again: with a very broad consensus. Yes, last week I visited the site of the nuclear power plant "Belene" in order to inspect how the construction of the facilities that must cover the equipment, which according to the manufacturer's requirements is positioned at the very site of the nuclear power plant "Belene." I can tell you that the construction, the construction of these structures is going with full force and all the equipment that was outside is covered at this point. There are only a few more modules left that need to be covered, but I hope at the beginning of next week all this is over. As far as investment interest is concerned, yes, in the context of the inquiry that has been put forward and discussed together, I have said that such investment interest has been in place since mid-February. There is a letter from China's largest state nuclear company, CNC, which has deposited a letter to the National Electricity Company, stating that it is interested in the NPP project. Moreover, you know that last week the European Investment Bank also said that it was interested in the possibility to finance such a project, of course, with a lot of conditionalities relating to how it will be structured purely financially, what will be the return, the profit in relation to this project, because you know that such a project requires a serious investment, but on the other hand, also requires a very good structuring of the project so that it can return the investments that have been made. At this stage, I can say this: the information, the letter of interest expressed by the Chinese company will be included in the proposals that the Minister of Energy must prepare on the basis of the decision taken on 2 March 2018 with full unanimity by the Bulgarian Parliament to present the various options and proposals for the most rational use of the equipment for the nuclear power plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u106	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Right to the line, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! Mrs. Petkova, thank you for your answer. If I may, a few references. Firstly, in the debates on 2 March 2018, we adopted the deadline for 30 June. This is respectively to present the road map that must be accepted by the government and we as MPs in order to be able to move forward and resolve all accumulated issues regarding the construction of the Belene plant. If we go back a little bit, you know we've wasted a lot of time in that direction. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences found that, firstly, the plant in Belene had a future, and the worst version of this was also found, therefore, nothing to do. In my opinion, we should not wait for the deadline, but gradually and methodically work in this direction in order to seek solutions and not miss the deadlines again. We were waiting for the reactors, and they really came, but what you were convinced at the beginning of the week, the reactors were at the playground, and there were two or three workers, making sheds with electric women and so on. I have no doubt that you will make efforts to preserve the reactors, that you will exercise your control and fulfill the commitments that we have placed on you as MPs. For the record, the CNC is a Chinese state corporation. It is a recipient of China's Ministry of Energy, has 100,000 employees and experts in 1,000 of their sites, currently operating with 25 nuclear reactors. It's a good line, but it's gotta be slow. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. We must also allow everyone who wishes to take part in this procedure and start these deadlines, because we have seen that what you said, too, the European Bank and the Prime Minister's conversation with the President of Russia, and everything else that connects around us with nuclear energy in both Turkey and Hungary, is working in this direction. We expect and end with this, the first thing that needs to be done is to change the decision. To submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal to suspend the 2012 Decision, to suspend the implementation of the Belene plant. This should therefore be proposed for a decision in the National Assembly as the first point of the road map. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Thanks for the good and important question. I would also congratulate you on the strict observance of the Rules of Procedure when it was put in place, but after that you were quite late, but because it is important, we have been understanding. Mrs. Petkova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for these additional explanations you have submitted. Indeed, I dare say that we are working very actively and we would not want to repeat the equipment story from 20 years ago You know, it stayed 20 years on the site of the NPP "Belene" and then we brought it back for pennies. Absolutely such a mistake and such a thing should not be allowed to happen to all of us. You can see that the Prime Minister also asked one of the investment forums in London about the possibility that such a project could be implemented as a regional project, as a Balkan project. We will strictly implement the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament on 2 March, we are preparing such a proposal. A task force has already been established in the Ministry. It includes experts from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the National Electricity Company, the State-owned company "Radio active waste" and the Nuclear Power Plant "Kozloduy" and the experts of the Ministry so that we can, within the time limit that the parliament has set, make these proposals and go forward accordingly on the basis of the analyses to be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u110	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are done with the questions to Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. We are moving on to the question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov, who will answer a question from the National Representative of the Political Party, Mrs. Krastina Nikolova Taskova about the plans of the Ministry of Economy for the development of a logistics hub or industrial park on the terrains of the former Stara Zagora airport. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and ministers, ladies and gentlemen! In 2012, the Ministry of Economy became the principal of the Stara Zagora Airport, with the idea of renovating the airport and building an airport for freight and a large cargo terminal to serve the whole of Southeast Europe. This was one of the projects with which Bulgaria applied for funding under the plan "Juncker". Unfortunately, several Bulgarian governments fail to find an investor for this important region Project. By Government Decision No 629 of 20 October 2017, the area of the airport in Stara Zagora with an area of 1187 decare and 93 buildings was declared private state property and approved its contribution to the capital of the State consolidation company EAD. Among the possible options for the use of this large terrain with built infrastructure and strategic location is the realization of industrial park. Similar to the one built by the National Industrial Zones company in Bozhurishte. Such a project would lead to the creation of thousands of jobs and an increase in economic activity in the region. In this regard, I ask you to answer me, Minister, what is the vision of the Ministry of Economy for the development of the terrains of the former airport in Stara Zagora? Which of the existing companies - Stara Zagora Airport, State Consolidated Company EAD or National Company Industrial Zones - EAD is loaded and has the capacity to realize the vision of the Ministry for this important site? What measures have been taken so far to attract investors to the realization of an airport cargo terminal or to build an industrial area on these terrains? Is there currently an investor's interest in cargo terminal or industrial zone projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, first of all, I would like to thank you for the question. It is extremely important and up-to-date especially for the Ministry of Economy. The development of major investment projects, as well as the development of industrial zones in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, is an exceptional priority for us, especially given what competition there is now and a fight for seeking investors. Due to the good location and transport links at the airport in Stara Zagora and after the transfer of the management of the airport of Stara Zagora, from the Minister of Transport to the Minister of Economy, in 2012 started work on the Project for the construction of the logistics center Stara Zagora, the idea was to create a cargo centre for transport between Europe and Asia. At the same time, the project is promoted to all investment forums in Bulgaria and abroad, but there is no serious interest in its development. The analysis we are doing at the moment shows that the terrains are not enough to build a cargo terminal, which is why for the purpose of the project by decision of the Council of Ministers of 2012 are provided for the management of the Ministry of Economy four real estates. The idea was for these properties to be imported into the company's capital. In view of the fact that the available staff and limited cash resources available to the company, Stara Zagora Airport, Ltd., could not manage and maintain, as well as protect these real estates, as well as by importing into the capital of the property would create large tax obligations which the Company cannot pay because it has no own income. The decisions of the Council of Ministers did not bring the properties to Stara Zagora Airport. In short, just to say that a lot of investors have actually been offered a lot of times to check, but it has been found that the site is extremely short. The current status of the project is related to the consolidation of all assets in one place in order to create an opportunity to implement a large-scale investment project. Three of the real estate with a total area of over 1000 decares, granted to the Ministry of Economy again with the 2012 decision, have been imported into the capital of a state-owned consolidation company and is about to be imported, we are currently working on it, and on other properties with a total area of over 1187 decares. In this way, all assets concerning the future and the successful project will focus on a legal person who also has the relevant financial resource. As regards the assets of the former civil airport of Stara Zagora, we are willing to maintain the airport infrastructure. It is the easiest way to destroy this infrastructure, but it has been done for the purpose of discussing and looking for an opportunity to build a logistical hub combined with using the runway at the airport. I assure you that all future plans for the territory of Stara Zagora airport will be coordinated with local authorities and with the public to find the best development option in the interests of the municipality and the state. The project is a priority for the Bulgarian government and I assure you that the Ministry of Economy is doing its best right now [[the President signals that time has run out]] , quite briefly, to present it in the best way to investors, including we are currently preparing a project to preserve the airport as a hub to be proposed, and we hope to be a hub between Europe and Asia. In short, for the industrial zone, we had several meetings in Stara Zagora with business, with stakeholders, they requested such an industrial area. About two weeks ago the National Company Industrial Zones and the municipality of Stara Zagora signed a Memorandum of Cooperation will be built such an industrial area in a new modern way. First, we will build the infrastructure itself, as investors will need, and then we will provide the terrains. Whether it's a sale or rent, depending on investors. It is located in the district of Zora.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u114	You're running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u115	I apologize. Over 100 decares will be created by the company at the moment, but a national company will enter with the corresponding money to build the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u116	Thank you, Mr. Karanikolov. Mrs. Taskov, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. On the one hand, I can rather say and summarize that I have heard something extremely important from you that the project is a priority for your government, which is encouraging, as I have also announced in my introduction that this will lead to the creation of thousands of jobs in the area. About the other industrial area in the district of Zora. We welcome the fact that you are working with the local authorities and I really hope that the project remains a priority for you, as well as the location of Stara Zagora is extremely suitable for the creation of such a hub, and as a city that can provide the necessary personnel. As you said at the moment, staff is not enough, but there are enough other people who can participate with their professional qualities in the management of such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Will you take advantage of it? Here you go, you're entitled to two minutes' cue, so relax.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u119	Thanks again. I assure you that this project is a priority at all for the entire Bulgarian state There is a serious interest in Stara Zagora, given that, as I said, the location which is, the highly prepared administration of both municipal and state level, as well as the highly qualified personnel who are in Stara Zagora. We don't have any problems for Stara Zagora. Our efforts are also directed there, we have many regions where there are problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u120	Thank you, Mr. Karanikolov. With the question for you, it's over... Have a nice and successful day! We move on to the questions of the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the MP Georgi Yanchev Gokov regarding the incident with Asen Marinov from the Center for Accommodation of Children with Disabilities in the town of Roman, which led to his death after refusing three hospitals to accept him. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, a Bulgarian child is gone, in an extremely ridiculous way. First, it is unclear what caused this 17-year-old boy to fall from the third floor of the Center for Accommodation of Disabled Children in the City of Roman. The child's name is Assen Marinov, and it's deafening, I don't think that's relevant. After the accident, he had a cranial trauma and a fracture to his ribs and ribs. However, ridiculous death can not be achieved immediately after the fall and after these injuries, but after three Sofia hospitals refuse to accept it. The lack of readiness for complex treatment of a victim with political trauma, lack of free beds, lack of specific specialists was carried out in the media as reasons for the refusals in the media. Are these reasons, however, for refusing to treat a child? I think the answer is a definite no! Finally, the child was admitted to the Pleven Hospital, Dr. Georgi Stranski, where despite the efforts of the doctors and the surgery he performed eventually died. Mr. Minister, this case raises a lot of questions about the social system, about the carelessness in our health care, about the lack of interest and responsibility in social cases, and avoiding them at all costs from medical institutions, about the refusal to provide health services and about turning all of this into a common practice of our health care. Mr. Minister, if you will, call it populism, but I am ashamed of what happened to a Bulgarian child. You, Minister, as responsible for healthcare in Bulgaria at this stage should feel the same feelings. My question to you is: have you cleared the case of this incident? Did you track down those responsible for Assen Marinov's death? Who will bear the responsibility that a Bulgarian child has left this world in this ridiculous way because of the refusal to provide him with emergency care and treatment? How will we prevent such cases in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u122	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, allow me before I answer your question to express my condolences to Asen's relatives, friends and educators. Every loss of life is a difficult event, especially when it is young people, children, young people. Light memory of Asen! In connection with the question you asked about the incident with Asen Marinov from the Center for the Accommodation of Children with Disabilities, the city of Roman, which led to his death, is requested detailed information on the case from the regional bodies of the Ministry of Health, the Regional Health Inspectorate.. Vratsa, the Center for Emergency Medical Care....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, the case is really complicated. There are certain discrepancies between the information that our regional services have given us. Therefore, in order to fully clarify the circumstances and in the light of the powers of the Medical Audit Executive Agency, a thorough examination of the medical standards and good practices in the provision of medical assistance, the quality of medical care provided, as well as compliance with patients' rights has been carried out urgently. Upon completion of the verification, you will be informed in a timely manner of the results and findings made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Gokov, straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I join my condolences to the relatives and I will call them the teachers who were responsible at home for this child. I sincerely regret to raise this issue from the parliamentary stand, but you understand that society should have been shocked by this case. Unfortunately, from the serious scandals that quake as an earthquake, our country of a high degree, cases such as the one with Asen pass as something insignificant, as something in order and within things, and a Bulgarian child goes away and there is no excuse for that. I understand that you're in an awkward position, and you can't help but regret what happened, but we have to do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen again. What's more disturbing is that I, from your answer, conclude that accidents like this will neither be the first nor the last. The case of the deceased child is a problem of the system and the model on which the whole Bulgarian health care works. Thus, opportunities are created to have such behavior on the part of medical institutions by trying to transfer responsibility and guilt from one hospital to another. After all, he will repeat it again, a Bulgarian child is gone. Hospitals are now commercial companies that shape their results not from the successes in the treatment, but based on the revenue that comes from the treatment in the hospital or hospital concerned. When income is less than expenditure, doctors become demotivated and become traders. When a patient appears at the entrance of the hospital, like the child in question, which is very clear that the revenue from what someone will pay is much less than the cost, the hospital starts transferring it from place to place. The model is wrong and it takes willpower to get better, because not everything is money, there is morals, and there are responsibilities, and there is a Hippocratic oath. In my question, there is no petty political nagging. In no way will it come back what happened and wash away our guilty political conscience that we have brought things so far that due to inadequate political decisions in healthcare it is possible that Bulgarian children can leave this world in an unacceptable, ridiculous and unacceptable way. Of course, the incident raises another question about control in such establishments: why hasn't a single child been adopted in the last five years at the Centre in Roman and so on? But these are issues that do not concern you, Minister, but concern the whole Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u127	Mr. Gokov, I've been watching this case since the day I found out the child had died. I look forward to the results of the medical audit, and I assure you that if we find shortcomings in the organisation, in the quality of medical activity or incompetence of some bodies, first, this will serve as certain accusations, if there are, and secondly, it will be a basis for us to improve the quality of analysis and control in our activities. And as for the commercial nature of healthcare, you know that I have made a commitment to you that I am working on, and I think that within a short period of time you will receive the necessary materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The second question is from several MPs Mr. Georgi Yordanov, Mr. Nikolay Penev, Mr. Ilian Timchev and Mr. Christian Vigenin about the shortage of hospital beds in Yambol district.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Several districts in Bulgaria are known to have a shortage of beds for hospital treatment. Such districts are Kardzhali, Razgrad, Silistra, Haskovo, Shumen and last but not least the number of beds. At the same time eight districts have exceeded the insurance of hospital beds, for some it is up to three times. Your Order No ER 01-428 of 22 December 2017 establishes a methodology for the development of a regional health card. Our question to you, Minister, is: what is your opinion on the chronic shortage of hospital beds providing medical assistance to the residents of Yambol district? In the light of Section IV, point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 of your established Methodology, in what volume do you intend to correct this indicator for Yambol district?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u130	Thank you, Mr Penev. Come in for an answer. Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Timchev, Mr. Penev and Mr. Vigenin! According to the Law on Medical Institutions, the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care are defined and planned on a territorial principle through the National Health Card. It shall be drawn up on the basis of the regional health cards to be drawn up by regional committees in accordance with the requirements of the Methodology for drawing up regional health cards established by the Minister of Health. The committees shall assess the needs of emergency, primary, specialized outpatient and hospital care. According to the methodology for determining beds for each area, correction factors taking into account the health demographic structure, usability and patients passed through the relevant area, including from other areas of the country, apply. The Regional Commission shall also carry out an analysis of the ratio between the calculation of the Methodology of the total number of hospital beds that provide access to hospital care in the area concerned and the existing number of beds by type and level of competence of the relevant structures in the area, as well as their distribution in hospitals and by level of competence. On the basis of this analysis, the Regional Commission shall apply to the regional health card drawn up and the opinion on the need for restructuring of medical institutions or to take other measures to establish, close or optimize medical institutions in the field. In 2016, the total useability of beds, of the bed fund in Yambol District, was 63%. Viewed by types of beds, the Usability is as follows: intensive beds - 63,6%, obstetric and gynecological - 55,8%; paediatric The beds with the highest useability are the beds of children's surgery - 87%, neonatal beds - 82,7%; maternity beds - 81,7%; beds in ear and neck diseases - 80,8% and psychiatric beds - 80,2%. In 2017, it became clear that the total useability of beds fell to 60%. Viewed by types of beds, it is as follows: intensive beds It is clear from these data that in the last two years there has been no evidence of chronic shortage of hospital beds in individual medical specialties in the district of Yambol. Moreover, the use of beds in many medical specialties is low to satisfactory. The final opinion on the need for hospital beds in Yambol region will be given by the National Commission for the elaboration of the National Health Card and will be based both on the analysis and the primary information provided by the District Commission... Yambol, as well as on the analysis of the needs of the population of certain types of beds and levels of competence at regional level for the Southeastern region in which Yambol district is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, it is very easy when there is something in plus, when there are more beds in one area, to base ourselves on the average indicator and say that these beds should be cut off. This is a fact, as we talk about Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and other major areas. The problem in Bulgaria is that the demographic depopulation regions, such as Yambol district, is Sakar Strandja, we cannot provide enough medical assistance to people there and in a complex with insufficient education system, these people leave because, without education and without medical care, they cannot live, the basic human needs cannot be realized. Therefore, the question we want to ask you with colleagues is: where there is less than average insurance for the area, how will we provide these people with sufficient and affordable medical care, because it turns out that we are now forcing them to travel to Burgas, to Sliven, to Stara Zagora, Plovdiv and the big cities? I think that we, as a health care system, should provide them with the relevant wards, as Yambol district indicators are not so bad, but these people need sufficient medical attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u134	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, will you have the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u135	Mr. Chairman, not as much a backdrop as just an explanation I had the opportunity to say a moment ago. You know, Professor Yordanov, that we are at the final rights for the development of the National Health Card. It will give the overall characteristics of the needs of the population of medical care, including what types of medical facilities, what types of staff, what kind of technique, what higher, what medium-sized medical personnel are needed to take into account the needs of the population. I think that this way we will change the approach to determining the needs of the population in each area, including for Yambol. I hope we will achieve the results we aim at with the new National Health Card, and, of course, the possibility of the National Health Insurance Fund to conclude contracts with hospitals that really give quality treatment to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov on the designation of national consultants in the healthcare system. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, a few days ago your order was issued. I will not read the numbers for determining the national and Republican consultants in the healthcare system for 2018. It is impressive that there are no national consultants in the specialities. In this regard, my question to you is: why are there no national consultants in these two specialities in the order, and when will they be defined?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, Ordinance No 47 of 2010 regulates the organization, activity and funding arrangements for national and Republican consultants. National consultants carry out expert and organisational and methodological functions in the conduct of state health policy by the Minister of Health, including on issues related to the organisation, quality and assessment of individual medical activities, medical practice and resource security of the health system. For inclusion of specialists in the List of National Consultants for the relevant calendar year, proposals may be submitted by the Ministry of Health by the end of September of the current year. The Minister's mandate is to designate national consultants in medical and non-medical specialities, highly specialized and specific activities within the framework of the relevant specialty for each calendar year. The specialties of the General Allergology are part of the nomenclature of specialties established by Ordinance No 11 of 2015 for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system and there is no legal obstacle to determining national consultants. As you said, Associate Professor Yordanov, Order No 13 of 12 January 2018 of the Minister of Health does lack national consultants in these two majors for 2018. In relation to the activities of drawing up medical standards and in particular the standard of imaging by Order No RD-01-72 of 8 March 2018, a national consultant was appointed in the speciality of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The designation of a national consultant in the speciality of the General Clinical Allergology will be made after discussion of the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Health with the next amendment of Order No 01-13 of 12 January 2018 for national consultants for 2018. In conclusion, I would say that, apart from national consultants, there is no legal obstacle for the Minister to require opinions from doctors, including habilitated persons with competence and knowledge of individual medical specialities or competence in carrying out specific medical activities such as the practice so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov? No questions asked. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MPs Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev regarding the provision of a normal working process in the units of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment (MHAT) Vratsa. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Ananiev! The multi-profile hospital for active treatment in the city of Botev. Vratsa, as you have repeatedly stressed, is structurally defining for the region and region. This hospital treats not only the residents of the municipality of Vratsa, but also the residents of the whole area, as well as patients from neighbouring districts. In recent years, from 2013 to 2016, the hospital has accumulated an avalanche of huge debt, almost 2 million a year. Two thousand and seventeenth year quite legally started the claims of creditors of the accounts of the medical establishment, which in turn led to a delay in the remuneration of doctors, medical staff, all working in the medical establishment. The current management of the hospital and your efforts to heal the medical establishment, as the state has more than 70% participation in the public limited liability company, the demand for options and funds to pay salaries, insurances, supplies and medicines, and in the context of claims by creditors and private court contractors is a process that is currently underway. The curative program is implemented, but there is still a difficult financial condition which leads to problems in the hospital, leads to leaving leading doctors, hence closures, even temporarily, respectively, of wards that are important to residents of the district. In this regard and the tension that has escalated in recent days, the politicisation by some political forces of this problem, which I consider extremely harmful, [[the President signals that time has run out]] led to additional tension. Therefore, my question to you is: what will you take to ensure a normal working process in the medical establishment and, above all, as the specifics, will the Ministry be able to provide the work of the invasive cardiology and cardiology department, which is currently not working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u142	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Avramova, on the question you have asked about ensuring a normal working process in the wards of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Vratsa, I would like to inform you of the following. At this stage, the contract with the private structure which carries out the activity of invasive cardiology in the medical establishment was terminated. The Ministry of Health will take the necessary legal action to analyse the concluded contract between the hospital and the private structure and, in the event of legal misconduct, court liability will be sought. The ministry's management is making every effort to find a solution to ensure a normal working process in the wards of the hospital. At present, options are being considered to provide the necessary equipment...... to continue the activities of the invasive cardiology department. After talks with medical professionals, there is their assurance that they will continue to work at the hospital. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment........................................................................................ Vratsa will not interrupt its activities and residents will continue to receive medical assistance in cardiology and invasive cardiology in the same range and volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer to this question, which I believe you have made very clear about the actions the Ministry of Health will take as a principal of the company regarding the work of the medical establishment itself, in particular the Cardiology Department and an invasive one. Mr. Minister, I will share with you my concern about the influence of multiple and various factors, and just on the eve of the signing of a new hospital aid contract for 2018 also in Vratsa: a reduction in the volume of activity in 2017; negative information campaigns, a set of work in the highly competitive environment by private and municipal medical institutions; the irregular and lagous payment of the staff's remuneration here, I will only mention that there are numerous notices and applications for exit; the constant loss of account fastenings and the ban on real estate by court contractors and creditors are a prerequisite for another difficulty before the Hospital in the inability of assembly and meets the conditions for conclusion of a contract laid down in clinical paths and clinical procedures by specialized medical staff. Dear Minister, the complementary question is: what is the possibility of implementing a specific financial mechanism by the majority owner to overcome the crisis and prevent the process of leaving specialized medical staff and restoring rhythmic supplies of medicines and medical supplies related to ensuring the normal treatment process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Krastev. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u147	Dear Mr. Krastev, we are going back to answering a question from my previous participation here with you in plenary. The curative plan of the Hospital Vratsa is in operation and is implemented successfully. The restructuring of some of the compartments, the optimization of the staff is underway and gives its results. I think that with the measures we're going to take in the next few days related to invasive cardiology, we're going to stabilize the ward that gave the most away medical professionals in the hospital. That's not gonna happen. Even if some of these medical professionals leave this ward, we have a backup option to come immediately others who will not only work and perform the tasks they currently have, but will also qualify new medical workers in this area. So our program is complex. The healing plan leads to an increase in the effectiveness of the hospital's work, and that means that we will recover some higher levels of income in the hospital, which were a year or two ago. Thus, as we will enable doctors to receive their salaries, people to be satisfied with the quality of medical work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u148	In what percentage of the revenue will they come to work?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u149	Thank you, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u150	Let me just hear. I'm sorry, tell me. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u151	Please don't have this conversation in this uncontrolled way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u152	It's a matter of leadership...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u153	Dr. Ademov will ask you a question and you will answer it quite officially. We continue with the next question by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev about the periodic lack of life support medicines. Please, Dr. Timchev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in recent years we have observed withdrawal or cessation of imports of certain medicines in Bulgaria, which are important for the treatment of patients, and in some cases they are also life supporters. In these cases, patients are forced to purchase medicines from other countries, as their doctors insist on continuing treatment with the particular medicines in question. My question to you is: what is the strategy of the Ministry of Health to ensure the treatment of Bulgarian patients with the medicines in question and does it not consider that when taking medicines from the Bulgarian market, doctors should be informed in advance about this within a sufficient period of time, as well as to be informed about alternative therapies? However, the issue of medicines, such as insulin, remains open, which in no way can be compensated by other medicines on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u155	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u156	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The current European and national regulations concerning medicinal products are directly bound by the holder of a marketing authorisation, which is the holder of exclusive product rights and can only and can dispose of it, whether it is production, trade or price formation. In view of this, only the Marketing Authorisation Holder can dispose of the medicinal product with regard to its supply on the relevant market, taking into account the scale of the market and the price regulation in force. The Marketing Authorisation Holder under the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine draws not only rights from the Marketing Authorisation but also is responsible for many aspects of Pharmacovigilance Monitoring, withdrawal of a product from the market, in case of reported adverse reactions and others. In 2017, the National Council on Prices and Reinbursement of Medicinal Products examined 82 procedures for exclusion of medicinal products from the Positive Drug List and deletion of price, and 56 medicinal products were requested to exclude from the Positive Drug List and to enter a price in the List of Limits. For 2017, a total of 11 international non-proprietary names have been deleted from the Positive Drug List and five of them have been entered in the Register of Prescribed Limit Prices and are thus available on our pharmaceutical market. It is important to note that the deleted international non-proprietary names have available therapeutic alternatives in our country. With regard to the question you have raised concerning the existence of the prior notice of termination of sales of a particular medicinal product, I inform you that there are already sufficient and complete requirements in the regulatory framework. Upon termination of sales of a medicinal product on our market, the holder of the marketing authorisation shall be obliged to notify the Drug Executive Agency in writing at least two months before its cessation, whether temporary or permanent. Where the medicinal product is included in the Positive Drug List, the notification should be made no later than three months before the date of cessation of sales and the holder of the Marketing Authorisation is obliged to notify the Ministry of Health and the National Council of Prices and Reinsurers of Medicinal Products. Where no other medicinal product is authorised for use in the country within the relevant international non-proprietary name, the notification shall be made no later than 18 months before the date of cessation of sales. During this period, the Marketing Authorisation Holder is required to provide [[the President signals that time has run out]] sufficient quantities of the medicinal product concerned to meet health needs. For each alert received for the cessation of sales in the Drug Executive Agency, except where the Marketing Authorisation Holder itself makes that notification, the Drug Executive Agency shall carry out a verification within 30 days, requesting information from the Marketing Authorisation Holders and wholesalers of medicinal products on the quantities of the product available. The results of the checks carried out, the Drug Executive Agency shall publish on its official website.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u158	I had a little more, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u159	You will continue in the back, you will have the opportunity. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Dr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, everything you've answered is true. This is the methodology that is being worked on, but there is still a breakthrough in the system of patients with epilepsy lack medicines for example for a period of one month. For Parkinson' s patients periodically every year for one or two months, the drug disappears, which has no alternative to be replaced with another or the doctor insists on using the same drug, and then people are forced to search abroad.... whether in Turkey, whether in Serbia, Romania and so on. In our question, we suggest that the Ministry may in some way take other actions..... whether it will be through more timely information to doctors to go as well as to go to eHealth. In fact, that will solve the problem for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u161	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here's your coat, dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Timchev, there must be separate cases where there is a lack of some medicine, but it is not practice. Our pharmaceutical market provides the necessary medicines for our patients. However, you have well added in your speech the need to create a slender system that does not allow such breakthroughs in satisfying our patients with the relevant medicines. You know that we have introduced to the National Assembly a Draft Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, where we are creating a lean system, including an information system that will monitor the presence of medicines in our country and will signal you under certain rules, with which we will introduce you at the second reading, when we enter with the amendment of the Law, which will not allow the quantity of the medicine concerned to fall below a certain level and under these conditions the possibility of its exports will be suspended if there is such parallel export. At the same time, you know that we are developing a National Information Health System, which is the basis for e-health with all the elements of this e-health, including medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u163	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. The next question to you is asked by the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov about the reassignment of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you are, Professor Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u164	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, today is a special day and I would like to congratulate you with it, because on that day 20 years ago the Health Insurance Act was passed. This child of ours is already growing with his disabilities and good things, and if it was 20 years, it proves that there was a reason to be. As one of the important people in this entire process, I would like to personally congratulate you and wish you success. My question is related precisely to the Health Insurance Fund, because it turns out that in 20 years we really could not find a sufficient base for it to operate under normal conditions. As information has appeared in the media to discuss the transfer of administrative parts of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund to the base of the Centre for Hygiene, for which some of your experts, as Deputy Minister Boyko Penkov said that 15 million for restocking the Casa is too much at this time, is my question to you: what is your opinion on the possible repackage of the Ministry of Health and the National Fund in the building of the Center for Public Health and its financing?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u165	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, thank you for your congratulations. I really had the happiness to be one of the founders of the National Health Insurance Fund in the distant year 1999. Hopefully it will be more effective, better organized and with better activity in relation to Bulgarian patients. I'm getting to the point. With a letter in my letter. No 0900135 of 23 October 2017 the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Kamen Plotchev informed the Ministry of Health that at a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF Decision No RDNS-0497 of 13 September 2017, which supported the proposal of the Governor of NHIF to provide a separate building to the Casa, indicating the following reasons. 1. The administration of Central Management NHIF is situated in three buildings located in Sofia. The first one on 1st Street. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man "Bigla" No 4 and "Bigla" Str. Some of them are owned by the Cashier and some of them are employed. This hinders the efficiency of the administration, engages time on the part of employees and worsens the quality of work. 2. In relation to the construction of e-health and the purchase of the necessary equipment, a special space should be provided for where it should be located. At present, the servers are located in a part of the housing. 3. Currently, the cost of renting three apartments used for work premises amounts to BGN 4209. monthly. Accommodation of NHIF Central Management in State Property, granted free of charge, will lead to savings of these funds and will optimize the cost of security of the three buildings. By Order No RD-0223 of 24 January 2018, the Minister of Health has been established a working group with the following task: preparation of proposals for moving and dislocating the buildings in the Centre for Hygiene Structures and Organizations, provision of schemes for their deployment and preparation of a technical assignment for the development of a project, accompanied by a quantitative account. After drawing up the quantitative account and determining the necessary financial resources for the restocking of the NHIF and for accompanying activities, including an amount of possible sale of the Cashier's properties, a decision will be taken to follow up. Depending on the Commission's conclusion, the possibility of moving the Ministry of Health to a building complex of the Centre for Hygiene will also be assessed, which you will be informed of in due time. Our idea is, first of all, to enter the Centre for Hygiene the entire Central Management of the Cashier, to make sure that they work in sync and with good quality of work. Then we'll decide if what's left can serve as the main building of the Ministry of Health, because I don't want to break it into several buildings. You know that there are many institutions, alliances, laboratories and so on, some of which can be exported, others, however because of their specific, and I would say some of the unique character cannot be removed. Once we have the National Health Insurance Fund there, we will work on the issue of the Ministry of Health. Professor Yordanov, to be honest, I believe that the Ministry of Health, even if it is not in this building in which it is now, if, of course, it needs it for other national purposes and needs, should be in the center of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. You don't want a line, Professor Yordanov, there won't be a double. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov on the Draft methodology for subsidizing medical institutions in 2018. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Since it's a complex matter, I'll allow myself to read it. The Health Commission by letter No 020251 of 2 March received a draft methodology for subsidising medical institutions for 2018. According to my assessment, there are a number of inadequately proposed problems in the draft texts and my questions in this regard are the following: art. 3, para. 3 " What are the criteria for the so-called "avansian subsidies', since the quoted criterion is too vague in the text? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, Section I: What are the periods of funding for medical institutions after an Annex 2 report, given that I can also say from personal experience that the volumes of expenditure are sometimes, and very often, too high? Section VII remains unclear about the administrative arrangements for conducting interventions that have been cited in Section VII, which in recent years, I think you have been familiar with this issue, has created a number of problems for a number of hospitals. The last question I allow myself to present to your attention is: has the founder of the Ordinance really provided in art. 33 the specific figures cited for the payment of the relevant therapeutic affairs which seriously do not correspond to the volume of financial costs? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, in the draft Methodical for subsidizing medical institutions, which is to be confirmed by the Minister of Health, the text of art. 3, para. 3, which you quoted, has been changed as follows: the Health Services Department may negotiate a one-off advance subsidy for the duration of the contract with medical institutions, but not more than a quarter of the subsidies used for 2017 under the Subsidisation Methodology for Medical Institutions in 2017, established by the Order of the Minister of Health last year. Maybe a quarter of what was earned last year for everyone. We don't put one hospital in a better situation than the other. The text is clear. The Ministry of Health shall aim to administer clearly and transparently established expenditure on its budget for 2018 so as not to allow the selective subsidisation of individual medical establishments specified by you. The time limits for the financing of the medical establishments are set out in the general part of the Methodology, and after the submission of the report referred to in Annex No 2, the Ministry of Health shall pay the reported according to the methodology and approved activity by the end of the month following the reporting. We introduce the law as it is in the Health Insurance Fund the month ends, account is made, it is checked and at the latest by the end of next month, which follows, the month produced is paid. I think this is an order that has proven its effectiveness in funding from the National Health Insurance Fund. This is a practice that is also consistent with the requirement of the Commercial Law. In order to avoid the accumulation of delays, medical establishments should be paid back to suppliers within the period after the grant has been received. Section VII shall include texts consistent with medical standards and by the individual specialities which have a direct bearing on this activity. The 2018 Methodology extended the range of medical institutions that can perform therapeutic aferresa and the price is differentiated by species. With regard to the doubts expressed by you about the discrepancy between the amounts of subsidy referred to in the Methodology for procedures and the volume of financial costs, I assure you and I inform you that the Ministry of Health has conducted the necessary consultations, as compared to the prices of these procedures in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your answer. I didn't allow myself in the question I asked you to go into many details. I can tell you that in art. For example, the number of diseases that are defined as the target of therapeutic affairs, regardless of which direction of clinical medicine, is absolutely incomplete. There is a missed number of diseases and this is a matter of a very serious precision, as the Ordinance defines which will be paid by the subsidy and which will not. Secondly, the standards on which procedures are to be met are laid down, but it is not clear. And in a previous decree of the Ministry, the issue was resolved so that only in the Department of Reanimation (Reanimation), I do not know whether you have informed in this regard, could such therapeutic affairs be carried out. We were forced to conclude contracts with other medical institutions. A hospital that has traditions in carrying out this type of activity, which is directly related to its high-tech activity, to conclude contracts almost fictitious, must say so that we can realize this absolutely necessary activity for our patients. Last but not least, I do not know what the consultations were, but as soon as I read the entire Ordinance carefully, I consulted with my colleagues from the aferrese section and I must assure you that this issue was not simply put forward. Indeed, the amount of consumables that are being used and the biological products such as plasma are very specific details, do not really correspond and should be very clear before the final publication of the Ordinance, the type of diseases, the method of payment and the specification of the mechanism by which these procedures will be allowed to be carried out. In respect of art. 3, I have written in my question that we have the bitter experience that in the past years have been subsidised explosively individual hospitals. You are known for this, you know these precedents. [[Reply from the Minister of Health.]] Yeah, that's why I took the liberty of putting that question so it wouldn't happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u173	Thank you, too. Will you use your right to the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u174	I'll do a background check on all the things Professor Mihailov says, and I'll take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u175	Thank you. This is the last question for you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Ms. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, about the business environment in the sector. Here you go, Mrs. Yankova, ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the environment in the sector of tourism. Madam Minister, tourism in Bulgaria, there is no dispute, is a priority industry and we all place great hopes on it, as an economic and social factor in the present and future of the country. National tourism is one of the most dynamic industries in its development in our home holding, but it is also placed in great competition. Worldwide, 7,6% of the working force is engaged in the sector, or that is 220 million jobs. It is expected that every eleventh person will be involved in the sector in 2020. The labour market in tourism is extremely dynamic and for well-trained personnel there is no dispute that there is no crisis, but according to data from the tourism industry in Bulgaria there is a huge shortage of medium and highly qualified personnel. In Bulgaria, the participants in the tourism system are 180 thousand, and with their accompanying tourism activities there are about four hundred. I say all this as an introduction to my questioning, Madam Minister, because in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 you have set the development and introduction of financial, fiscal and other models to stimulate investment in human resources development and to modernise the material base on the principles of sustainable development. On this occasion and with the commitment that tourism needs to develop, please inform me what the Ministry of Education has done so far in order to develop financial, fiscal and other models for stimulating the sector of tourism both for human resources and for the modernisation of the material base? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, in connection with your inquiry regarding the management program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 - 2021, I will inform you of the following. The Ministry of Tourism is working optimally on the opportunities provided by the European Structural and Investment Funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector and promote the Bulgarian tourism product. The Ministry of Tourism is a specific beneficiary under the procedure in providing institutional support to the Ministry of Tourism for activities related to increasing the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism. The total amount of the funds is almost 10 million. $800,000. BGN, with the submission of projects being carried out within two deadlines until 9 March 2018, and by 11 March 2019. Within the first deadline, the Ministry of Tourism submitted a project proposal to increase the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector by supporting the creation and operation of tourism management organisations worth around 5 million. lv. With the implementation of the project, we provide for the process of forming tourist management organisations, and in each of these we provide logistical and expert support to the efforts to establish. We already have three organizations in place - "Rodopi," "Varna Black Sea Tourist Region" and "Burgas Black Sea Tourist Region" - and the procedure for the fourth organization - "Rilo-Pirinski Tourist Region" is to be finalised. Members are representatives of local authorities and associations of tourism business. The basic activities to be financed under this project are related to ensuring the participation of international tourist exchanges, exhibitions, international forums, as well as the implementation of specific and detailed marketing analyses and plans tailored to the regional specifics, needs and advantages of each of the regions in order to achieve optimally targeted marketing, broad recognition and enforcement of the relevant brand on the tourist market. In addition, logistical maintenance and technical equipment of the work of the organizations will be provided, preparation of the necessary manuals and practical documents needed for their functioning, as well as a series of trainings and implementation of established practices in the implementation of these objectives, and nine external experts will be provided for each of the tourist areas. The expected result of the project implementation is increasing the competitiveness and capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector of Tourism, increasing the level of awareness of their potential and the products and services they offer. During the second eligible period for application under the OPEC programme, we will submit a second project proposal to improve the quality of services of small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism by using web marketing and online advertising, including further development of the official tourist portal Bulgaria Travel dot org, by creating virtual platforms of tourist management organisations. In implementing the measures of the Government Programme, the implementation of a comprehensive state policy for the prioritized development of human resources is being worked hard. This is also the main challenge facing the sustainable development of tourism in the context of its horizontal nature. Human resources with the necessary training and qualification are the basis for the development and supply of a quality tourist product. In this regard, we have launched activities on structuring a qualification and re-qualification centre for personnel training and practice at the Ministry of Tourism. The aim of this centre will be to conduct trainings for professional qualifications, requalification and increase the level of performance skills of personnel in the sector. We foresee that its activities will start in 2019 and we fully coordinate with the Ministry of Education and Science. In addition, in addition to the coordination role of the Ministry of Tourism, an inter-agency council on tourism personnel also functions. The Ministry also actively participates in the activities of introducing reliefs in the Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration, as well as in the processes for developing the Rules for its Implementation. The Decision of the Council of Ministers of 2 February 2018 approved the updated National Strategy for Sustainable Tourism Development in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 " 2030" and its Action Plan for the period 2017 - 2020. Their main goal is the sustainable development of tourism in Bulgaria through a balance between the interests of tourists, local communities, the needs of the natural and cultural environment and the development of the competitiveness of the destination and business. As regards the promotion of investments in 2017, the Ministry will for the first time develop and issue a map of investment projects in tourism containing project proposals for promotion to potential investors submitted by the municipal authorities, as well as information on the advantages in the country as an investment destination. This map has an interactive version that is also available on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. In conclusion, I can assure you that we are doing our best to support the business, as well as to continue to make Bulgaria a sustainable tourist destination for four seasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in for some supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u180	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Regarding what you have introduced me to, the National Assembly and the Bulgarian citizens, there is no dispute that the European programmes and projects influence and add to the modernization of tourist infrastructure. However, in the question I asked you, you have made a commitment as a Bulgarian minister in this sector, and the government itself has committed itself to bringing out And here arises a question specifying: what is the Bulgarian state's assignment to education, to vocational schools and higher schools, as well as colleges for the preparation of staff with secondary and higher education? And in fact, I suppose you know how many higher schools are, what is the number that is established every year for students as well as in secondary school? It is extremely important inside the government, implementing this Programme, not to have a clerical placement of the issues, but to feel the industry and the business, that ministers are working business and that policy is being pursued. And the second question is: you have shared that you are making a targeted state policy for the staff. What are you doing for the qualification of the workers? Because, I suppose, and you are not satisfied, there is no dispute that it is significantly behind with the problem of complex education training in the field of tourism. It's all education, culture, atmosphere. And in this situation, I wish you'd give us a business answer to these two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Iankova, you are absolutely right that the staff are one of the most important issues, especially in the sector "Tourism" and are extremely important for sustainability in the sector because they form more than 90% of the tourist service offered. Of course, absolutely everything is related to education and then the practical qualification and requalification of workers in the sector. In this regard, two years ago, we created an Interagency Council for the staff in tourism, which participates both representatives of individual departments, especially the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as representatives of higher education institutions, as well as representatives of professional high schools of tourism and, above all, the associations in the sector and business, precisely in order to be able to draw up the main steps to address this challenge by drawing up those with a short-term solution, those with medium-term and long-term solutions. It is in this regard and following the individual recommendations and the researched experience we have made to countries such as Spain, France, Portugal, Croatia, Greece, which are leading in the sector, that we have started the preparation together with the Ministry of Education and Science to establish a special Centre for qualification and requalification and with practical focus mainly on the executive positions of the Ministry of Tourism. We are about to finalise its structure and location and, in parallel, we are working on the curriculum and programs as a whole together with the Ministry of Education and Science precisely to see the link between the needs of the sector and what is actually produced as personnel. And this has been done due to a specific full request of the industry that it is necessary to examine in advance these study plans and programmes, especially related to the sector. I hope, as I said next year, that this centre will be able to open up and see its practical direction, which will be connected. It will qualify and requalify not only footage that have just graduated and need such practice, but also all who wish to requalify, are already working or wanting to improve. So this is what we have done specifically as steps in terms of working towards dealing with this challenge. In the short term, we started the changes already operating under the Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Act last year, and only last year had more than 4,000 employees. seasonal workers, as this short-term measure will continue this season. The employers have already organized themselves and are doing the necessary actions related to the coming summer season, which I am opening here, we also expect to be as successful as the previous one. Currently, the growth of requested flights for airports Varna and Burgas is between 15 and 25%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor to express your attitude to the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! In the second government of Prime Minister Borisov you are and really there is continuity in your work. And maybe the government's management program should already be picking fruit and feeling policies that are being brought up. Frankly, what I am seeing, I am trying, as my electoral area is this, and what is like a national policy, I wish in the sphere of.... especially the human potential... and indeed for the purpose of implementing effective policies to work more effectively. Now, exchanges, yes, EU funds, yes, speaking, rituals, representativeness, yes, but I suppose you have done an analysis and you know how many children are studying such a specialty, and how many students are there and how many are left in Bulgaria? It's the painting that's disturbing. Last year at the exit in Smolyan only two children would stay to work for the Bulgarian economy. The rest, yes, we are also the European market, but... So we don't have financial, fiscal and other models to hold people. And you can help in this relationship with industry associations with the employers themselves. Particularly in this industry, it is extremely important for it to be strengthened and competitive. He's dynamic. In parallel, there are huge regional differences in the country, and tourism can help the regions to be a little revived. And outside national resorts, with the exception of operational programs, no destinations are being taken out. It is more difficult to stimulate and here is where the financial models are needed - funds, taxes, interest rates, policies - in these areas where the beauty of Bulgaria is, people come to feel them, but also to get economic activity, you have a huge role to play. And here, maybe, you should see these models that you saved and that you didn't talk about. Therefore, I would like to address you, to a great test you are in a second government, in the end of the first year, more dynamically, more effectively, so that the industry feels that there is really a policy, a policy that is being taken out and people feel comfortable that they can receive education, go to work, be well paid. Because there is no dispute that seasonal workers have, there is no dispute that even pensioners have economic activity in the individual seasons, but this does not give stability to the industry itself, to the quality of the tourist service that we all insist on. I ask this question because it is required by the industry itself and must make a contribution to education and to business so that we can actually prepare Bulgarian staff for the business sector itself. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, thank you for understanding. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-16.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. And thank you for your participation today, Madam Minister. The next regular plenary session of 21 March 2018 from 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
