ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for April 25, 2018: 1. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Education and Science. Importer is Polina Tsankova on 20 April 2018. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018. 4. Draft decision to amend the Decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Military Academy "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski" in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 March This Decision shall 5. Draft decision to amend the Decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 March This Decision shall 6. Draft decision to amend the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military Military Military Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff at the National Military University Vasil Levski. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. 7. Second vote on the bill for amendment and excitement of the Energy Act. A joint project drawn up by the Energy Commission on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 4 April 2018 with importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018; Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018. 8. Election of Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 21 March 2018. Point 1 of point 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. 9. Selection of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 21 March 2018. On Thursday 26 April 2018, point 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. 10. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 132 against 5, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal submitted under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act, No 754-01-36, shall be included on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 25 April 2018 from 5 July 2017, submitted by Vesela Lecheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor to defend your proposal within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I address the MPs from the ruling coalition with one appeal. I abstained from voting on the agenda because once again, there is no point that concerns the policy for young people. Dear Members of Parliament, today you have the opportunity to correct your mistake and, above all, to erase the shameful stain that you put on Bulgaria with the failed and corrupted European Youth Conference. Today, you have the opportunity to show your attitude towards young people because with the failed and corrupted youth conference you have once again shown your insulting attitude towards young people. You always say that young people are a priority for you, but they are always absent from the National Assembly's agenda. They're either the last point, or they're just absent. That is why you have the chance today to correct your mistake and to vote on our proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act. Moreover, at this youth conference you missed listening to the young people. Our Bill proposes, regulates and provides legal guarantees for the youth presence, for the youth representation of what young people want to participate actively in decision-making regarding the policy that concerns their development and their realization in Bulgaria. I see that you do not enjoy this topic, but I think that you, today, can show your priority with regard to young people, do they exist on the agenda or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. I put to the vote the proposal to include this bill in our weekly programme. They voted 178 MPs: 81, against 23, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 18 April 2018 to 24 April 2018: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. The importer is Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. State Social Security Implementation Report for 2017. Importer is the National Insurance Institute. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Services to support the implementation of projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette. The importer is Daniela Atanasova Daritkova. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency (IAC) for 2017 (secretly) and Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Education and Science. The importer is Polina Christova. Annual Youth Report 2016 and Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. A bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of Requirements for the Legalization of Foreign Public Acts. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the importer. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Several messages: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the residence on the territory of the country for the time 7 May to 18 May 2018 including soldiers from the special operations forces of the Republic of Macedonia with the necessary equipment, equipment, equipment and ammunition. The purpose of their stay is to conduct a joint Bulgarian-Macedonian training. The preparation is in connection with the agreement reached between the defence ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia and the plan for the activities of the 68 Brigades of the Special Forces in 2018. It is related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other States or organizations of armed forces. The notification was received on 19 April 2018. No 803-09-21, and granted to the Defence Committee. Next message: On 18 April 2018, a report on the results of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies was received. In accordance with the requirements laid down in art. 17 of the Financial Rules in the Budget of the National Assembly and Annex to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the report and its annexes will be published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. Last message: from the Council of Ministers on the grounds of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the National Assembly have been received for information: the Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria 2018 - 2021 approved by Decision No 263 of the Council of Ministers of 2018; an update for 2018 of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of the Strategy "Europe 2020" approved by Decision No 267 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. By letters of the Chair, the materials are provided to all Standing Committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. Declaration on behalf of the group Mrs. Stoyanova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u4	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today I would like to draw your attention to news that you probably have not noticed, and even if you have noticed, BSP colleagues could not use it for their propaganda rhetoric. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u5	Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm sorry. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, keep quiet and listen! That's why you don't hear it, because you don't listen. A little higher, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u6	Yesterday, the European Statistical Office, Eurostat, announced the provisional annual debt data of the Member States. For Bulgaria the news is more than good. After the successful completion of the first programming period under the European programmes, after two years of growth of the Bulgarian economy, higher than the average of the European Union, after an excess on the state budget balance and a lasting trend for fiscal consolidation, after the high growth of revenues in the state budget, the lowest levels of cigarette smuggling in Europe, after the two-digit growths of the average wage, unprecedentedly low levels of unemployment and the 11 billion fiscal reserve, we are now reporting an extremely low level of government debt. Eurostat figures show that the government's prudent fiscal policy puts Bulgaria in one of the EU's top positions on the low level of general government debt. Related to gross domestic product, it fell to 25.4% of gross domestic product at 29% at the end of 2016. This way Bulgaria retains its leading position of the lowest debt only after Estonia and Luxembourg the third country in Europe. The reported low levels are not only far below the upper threshold of the Maastricht convergence criteria of 60%, but also significantly below the average levels for the 28 EU Member States, which have average levels of 81,6% and the 19 euro area Member States whose debt levels are on average 86,7%. Dear colleagues, this is not just statistics, this is the result of the debt management policy of the government and the Finance Ministry. By the way, in 2016, the prestigious magazine of Global Markets distinguished our country with the award for best country in Central and Eastern Europe for good government debt management. Because debt is not governed by hollow phrases and slogans, with frightening lies to the media, nor with unfounded criticisms, by which there is uncertainty and fear in people. It is not difficult to recall with a quick search on the Internet on a keyword how in your frustration to the facts you, colleagues on the left, created false news about the debt and planted them as weeds in the Bulgarian society. For years, you had taken up the task of putting the public permanently, that our country's debt was growing. After yesterday, I think you should be quiet. BSP's anchor point burst. I want to believe that among BSP colleagues there are financially, economically literate people who can read and understand monthly data published by the Ministry of Finance on his debt website. There you can clearly see the whole picture of debt management policy. Fifteen European countries have sovereign debt exceeding the European limit of 60% of gross domestic product, with the highest levels being Greece, Italy, Portugal and so on. Today from this tribune I want to tell you about Bulgaria's lowest government debt and I hope that you have ears to hear me, and if anyone continues to talk about the country's high debt, question its expertise. The state debt has dropped significantly in the past year and this is an undeniable fact. You scared, colleagues on the left, people that the government enslaved the generation by 16 billion. lv. a new duty, which was also a blatant lie. Not only did the state not withdraw such an amount, but from the budget surpluses it accumulated, made losses in 2017 on the five-year eurobonds of the Republic of Bulgaria, with which the level of debt decreased nominally by 2 billion. 257 million, or 3.6 percent points. Moreover, in the coming years, debt will continue to decrease and in 2018 will reach 22.3% of gross domestic product; in 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 20 per cent of gross domestic product. As a result of the favorable macroeconomic development of the country and the prudent fiscal policy carried out, maintaining low levels of government debt, Bulgaria's credit rating has been increased and at present it has been assessed as an investment by the leading rating agencies. Following a review of the state and expectations of the development of the economy, as early as 2017. Standard & Poor's and Fic's increased the country's outlook from stable to positive, and in December last year they raised its rating by one degree. May I remind you, honourable Members, when did Bulgaria's rating collapse in a dire way? In 2014 every time he manages BSP! [[Private applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] With this, I call on the mind to prevail and once and for all to close the issue that Bulgaria has a debt problem. Honourable Members, let us wish for more good financial and economic news and less self-inflicted opposition from this tribune. Let us overcome our political biases and close party interests, promote our country's financial and economic successes and validate its good name in Europe and in the world instead of spitting in Bulgarian. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise. Awesome.)]] If anyone has anything to say, order the stand. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONFIGURATION IN THE MEANING OF THE COMMISSION'S RESEARCH AND SCIENCE. Mrs President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Elena Stefanova Axieva is elected member of the Committee on Education and Science. Importer: Polina Tsankova Please, voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: 142, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. Importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018 Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u8	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-20, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 18 April 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with importer Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activities Directorate at the Ministry of the Interior; Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Public Security and Conditions of Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Mr. Nenko Salchev, Chief Expert at the same Directorate; Mrs. Snezhana Malakova, Director of the Directorate of Law at the National Insurance Institute. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlana Angelova. According to the reasons of the bill, the proposed changes are intended to ensure flexibility in the application of the labour contract under art. 114a of the Labour Code for short-term seasonal agricultural work and the creation of an opportunity to do overtime by employees of the Ministry of Interior whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer and the Labour Code for carrying out work related to security and public order protection. The main objectives set by the Bill are: As regards § 1. A change of art. 114a, para. 4 of the Labour Code, with a view to ensuring the duration of working hours under the employment contract for short-term seasonal agricultural work is 8 or 4 hours. When determining the possibility of working at 4 or 8 hours will be able to correctly calculate the remuneration and insurance contributions due to the contract, which will correspond to real time spent and labour. As regards § 2. A complement of art. is proposed. 144 of the Labour Code, providing for an exceptional eligibility for overtime when performing certain work by the Ministry of Interior's employees. The creation of an opportunity for these activities to be carried out outside the established working hours will result in regulated work beyond the established working hours by those employees, their protection during the performance of their duties, compensation for such work under the relevant conditions and, last but not least, protection of the rights and interests of citizens. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the National Insurance Institute, the Executive Agency of Labour and Labour, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Industrialists and Employers in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour. All institutions and organizations support the Bill. Some of them have made remarks. In the opinion of the National Insurance Institute, there is a recital concerning § 1, relating to persons who will work on four-hour contracts and their compulsory disability insurance due to general illness, old age and death, for occupational accident and occupational disease. In the event of the occurrence of the risks for which they are insured, they will be entitled to the relevant insurance collateral. In this sense, it would be justified if these rights and collateral were settled with an explicit text in the Bill. The opinion of the CST as regards § 1 clearly states that the rules of the Labour Code allow for work on less than the statutory eight-hour working day. Therefore, the explicit rule for introducing a four-hour working day for the day-to-day contracts of the proposed bill can be negotiated between an employer and a worker. The Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria refrain from strong support from § 2 because the proposed version of the provision is insufficiently clear and does not contain comprehensive criteria for what kind of overtime will apply. A partial preliminary impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Nadia Klisurska, Pavel Shopov and Hasan Ademov. In addition to supporting the Bill, opinions were expressed on the fact that since the creation of art. 114a of the Labour Code there were concerns about colosis between its legal form and the motives with which it was created. Three years after the legislative settlement of this problem, farmers are concerned that the practice of it is not indisputable. Regarding the payment of overtime to the employees of the Ministry of Interior appointed by employment and engaged in several special activities, opinions were expressed that perhaps a more appropriate solution to the problem is in a special law, moreover that, for employees appointed by service, it has been successfully resolved. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes for a vote, 1 vote against a vote and 1 vote abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 854-01-20, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u9	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Tsvetanov, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-20 of 5 April 2018, submitted by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-20, submitted on 5 April 2018 by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov and Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Department of Law and Social Policy: Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour and Nenko Salchev. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Plamen Nunev. In his exhibition, the importer noted that the proposed bill aims to ensure flexibility in the implementation of the labour contract under art.114a of the Labour Code for short-term agricultural seasonal work and to create an opportunity for overtime by employees of the Ministry of Interior, related to security and protection of public order. If possible for short-term seasonal agricultural work at 4 or 8 hours, it will be possible to correctly calculate the remuneration and insurance contributions due to the contract, which will correspond to the actual time spent and labour. This will help in hiring unqualified labour during the agricultural production processing and harvesting campaigns. The day-to-day employment contract with 4 hours of work will contribute to greater mobility of large groups of workers who within one or several days will start and complete farming and harvesting activities with one or more employers. With the proposed addition of art. 144 of the Labour Code provides for eligibility, exceptionally, for overtime in the performance of certain works by staff of the Ministry of Interior, whose status is governed by the Labour Code and the Civil Service Act. The provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act regulate the conditions and arrangements for overtime only in respect of civil servants. These are police and fire safety and population protection authorities. Other employees shall be subject to the Labour Code, which allows overtime only by exception and in the case of comprehensively listed in the provision of art. 144 hypotheses. The creation of a legal opportunity for overtime to respect the performance of work relating to elections, preparation of expertise, psychological assistance in operational and search activities, and the management of critical situations, as well as other security and public order work, aims to ensure the protection of the staff concerned during the performance of their duties outside the established working hours, compensation for work under the relevant conditions, as well as protection of the rights and interests of citizens. In practice, these activities are carried out by officers of the Ministry of Interior in the Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior of Bulgaria and the Institute of Psychology. This change is imperative because the activities of the Ministry of Interior are aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, combating crime, protecting national security, protecting public order and fire safety and protecting the population. In this sense, the work required to be carried out by the staff of the Ministry of Interior can often not be planned and organised only during the established working hours, as depending on different factors requires immediate and urgent implementation. It is therefore necessary to include this type of work in the assumptions in which, exceptionally, it will be possible to place it outside established working hours. This will lead to regulated labouring outside the established working hours of employees related to the implementation of this type of activities. A partial impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which support the Bill. People's representatives Georgi Andreev, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour and Social Policy took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes in favour, without the votes of the President of the National Assembly, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-20 of 5 April 2018, submitted by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Will there be an opinion of the importer? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! § 1 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code proposes an amendment in art. 114a, para. 4 of the Labour Code on the duration of working hours under a contract of employment for short seasonal agricultural work, the same being 4 or 8 hours. The introduction of four-hour working hours for the so-called one-day contracts will enable accurate calculation of the remuneration and security contributions payable under the contract, i.e. the actual account will be taken of the working hours and working conditions of the workers. The one-day work contract providing for a 4-hour working day would respond to the specifics of agricultural activity. In certain cases, the nature of the agricultural activity does not allow certain activities to be carried out over a whole working day of 8 hours. For example, when harvesting pink and lavender, there is a specialty of this must be done early in the morning, up to certain hours of the day and cannot actually be for an entire working day of 8 hours. The day-to-day employment contract with 4 hours of work will contribute to maximum mobility of agricultural workers who, within one working day or several days, will start working with one agricultural harvester and then focus on a subsequent employer who needs to hire them. § 2 of the Bill suggests supplementing art. 144 of the Labour Code, providing for an exceptional eligibility for overtime in the performance of certain works by staff of the Ministry of Interior, whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer and the Labour Code. With the transformation of the relations of part of the employees of the Ministry of Interior as of 1 February 2017, the provisions of art. 187a and 187a of the Ministry of Interior Act, which regulate the terms and conditions for overtime, are applicable only to civil servants within the meaning of the Ministry of Interior Act. These are police and fire safety and population protection authorities. The employees with status under the Law on the Civil Service and the Labour Code shall be subject to the amendments to the Labour Code if necessary. The implementation of work related to the production of elections, the preparation of expertise and psychological assistance in carrying out operational and search activities, the management of critical situations is not among these hypotheses. This is a work carried out by officers of the Ministry of Interior, whose status, as I said, is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer and the Labour Code, and are with the Department of the Ministry of Interior, the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate of Migration, the Research Institute of Crime and the Institute of Psychology. The work required to be carried out by the Ministry of Interior employees, who are under the Labour Code and under the Civil Service Act, can often not be planned and organised only within the established working hours, as it is dependent on various factors and is linked to immediate and urgent implementation. For example, election production is always on days off, and committing a crime or the occurrence of crises is hypothetically possible at any time of the day. Therefore, there is a need to include this type of work in the assumptions in which work may exceptionally be done outside established working hours. This change will result in regulated work beyond the established working hours by the said staff of the Ministry of Interior, their protection during the performance of their duties and compensation for such work under the relevant conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Again, I ask: are there any speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in. I suspected we'd start this debate with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We're back at the Labour Code. I have a feeling that some MP, not knowing what to do, is training with legislative changes in the Labour Code, the Social Security Code or the Road Traffic Act. You should be aware that this, if I'm not mistaken, is the 169th Amendment proposed for the Labour Code. What's the offer about? For two who had nothing to do with each other's repairs. According to importers, the first change is intended to ensure flexibility in the application of the labour contract under art. 114a of the Labour Code for short-term seasonal agricultural work, the so-called "single-day employment contract', and the second to create an opportunity for overtime by the employees of the Ministry of Interior, whose status is governed by the Law of the Civil Service and the Labour Code, when performing work related to security and protection of public order, and this overtime to be paid. It is argued by the importers that both amendments are expected and desired by the word organizations. If so, I do not know, but at least it is appropriate, before we accept them with euphoria, to see what the consequences of them will be, because they will hardly be the ones described in the reasons and preliminary assessment of the impact of importers. I'll start with the first proposal. A labour contract for short seasonal agricultural work was established in 2015, in force from 17 July 2015, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, on the initiative of the then Minister Ivaylo Kalfin with the noble aims to regulate labour law relations in agriculture in the case of seasonal work for professions requiring no special qualification, in the main economic activity plant farming, only for the processing of crops and harvesting of fruits, vegetables, pink colour and lavender. Even then, I personally expressed concern that the government and the social minister, in their desire to show how well they are with the problems and are adequate to the requirements of farmers, are a little hasty and make legislative changes that cannot be clearly accepted and will rather make their work difficult without achieving the desired effect. A little later it became clear that satisfied with the introduction of the day-to-day labor contracts there were even sporadic protests. However, this could in no way cause the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to make a serious, thorough, professional and expert analysis of the effects of the provision and of the application of these day-to-day contracts, taking into account all pros and cons. Despite the insistent requests of a number of MPs in this direction, no analysis has been drawn up. Only some quantitative results and statistical data of the kind of how many such contracts have been concluded and so far, which in no way answered the question: is there a real effect of these contracts and is there a legitimate protest against them? The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did not want to do the necessary analysis and, citing it, to make proposals for annulment of the provision of art. 114a, or based on analysis, to try to at least change it, to make it work. Such an attempt has been made by a group of MPs without having the resources to make an impact analysis and assessment. Therefore, negative opinions followed from everywhere and they withdrew their bill. Then, under the dictation of the Ministry in July 2016, a new bill was introduced, but, as with the first one, and the second leading motives were not to fix matters in substance, but to facilitate administrative farmers in the conclusion of these insane treaties. Then we warned you from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria that this part of the Labour Code for day-to-day contracts does not need repairs and repairs, but a cancellation because there is no way to fix something that is wrong with its creation. Today is on the agenda a third amendment to this part of the Labour Code, adopted only two and a half years ago, now on the grounds that some flexibility is provided and that the duration of the working time of the employment contract will be possible for short-term seasonal work to be eight or four hours, but why not for five, six and seven hours, remains a secret even for importers who, of course, are not the real authors of the submitted proposals for changes. One question, honourable Members. Will there be employers who can make such contracts for more than four hours?! Again, we don't solve anything and we don't relieve anything. I will return to the essence of the problem, and it is that by accepting this article. 114a two and a half years ago for the first time a contract was introduced in the Bulgarian legislation, which is called a service but for which no service is recognized. This is the deprivation of the working of all the positives that brings him the employment contract. The accumulation of service, class of service, leave, long-term unemployment benefits and so on. This is, of course, not good, but it is even worse that it is a precedent and by watching the capital in Bulgaria take place, it is only a matter of time before this non-confession of service on other contracts. It's just a matter of time! These so-called day-to-day contracts guarantee no employment, no income and no guarantee of workers' rights. There is no solution to the issues of labour normalization and guaranteeing the payment of the work, work and pay on weekends, workwear and personal protective equipment, training and briefings, transport from and to the site and so on. These contracts are a prerequisite for low pay and uncertainty of income and employment, and not only do they not contribute to reducing inequalities and poverty, but also deepen them. There are no guarantees to cover at least the minimum life needs of the worker and we will continue to talk about working poor, but we will only talk without doing anything to overcome the problem. With the current proposal, nothing I have said changes in a positive direction. Once again, many questions remain open. Why should such a proposal be accepted, since the Code of Labour now provides an opportunity with art. 66, para. 1, t. 8 working hours, working days or weeks to be negotiated between a worker and an employer? Why are these day-to-day contracts regulated in the Labour Code? Why do we keep calling them employment contracts, and in the same article we are correcting now, in para. 1 remains the record: "The use of the labour force arising under this provision is not recognised as a service. " - What, then, is the employment of this contract?! Every impartial person will ask himself: why do we call it an employment contract? That's a very logical question. These contracts do not specify even the beginning and end of the working day, and this amendment shall attempt to determine its duration. There is no job in the contract, there is no worker, there is the performance of a particular job, the processing of crops and the harvesting of crops, which is the result, and not the provision of a workforce. Isn't that a typical civil contract?! I know that the main motive of the importers and of those who introduced this norm and its stubborn keeping to this day through inadequate adjustments is that they will cross the possibility of bypassing insurance relations, which are ultimately the main problem for you, but you are not able to solve anything, and you are only bringing turmoil to employment. Here again I will repeat my question: will there be an employer, a farmer, to sign a one-day contract for more than four hours, even though his worker will work full-time after you officially give him the opportunity to lie with this amendment? Now, honourable importers, and you, who will support this part of the proposals, I warn you once again that you are creating problems and negative precedents in labour law, or simply speaking, you are doing stupid things. And I'm sure, as I was right before, which is proof that we now have to once again repair something unmade like the people of the first time. Now the motives are not right again, and I'll be right that a new amendment will be required. With these proposals instead of solving the problem, you are deepening it. There is no way I can support this proposal. Not only will I not support it, but will by all means oppose the adoption of this bill. Why? Although I repeat myself, I will say that there is no way to correct something that is originally wrong and violates basic principles in labour law, and it also takes away labour rights. I warn you that if we now accept these amendments to the Labour Code, we will still have to make amendments at the latest in the next agricultural season. The other proposal seems more acceptable, but to ask a few questions, and the importers, if they can, let them answer. First, how clear is the proposed supplement in this form? Does it contain comprehensive criteria and what kind of overtime will it refer to? These actions, such as the conduct of investigative proceedings, operational and search activities, the management of critical situations and so on, are they not regulated and regulated sufficiently clearly and precisely in the special laws? Isn't there an opportunity for subjectiveism in interpretation? In your assessment, importers note that the proposed changes are not related to expenditure of funds. Is that so? If there is no increase in costs, how will this proposal contribute in full to offset the emergency work of the employees in the Ministry of Interior? The question remains also: why are the problems of certain departments of the Department of Psychology "Bulgarian Identity Documents", Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Research Institute of Forensics, Institute of Psychology, all structures of the Ministry of Interior are decided in the basic law Code of Labour and not in special laws? There are many more questions and problems, but I will stop here. I am strongly opposed to the proposals made by § 1 of the importers, and despite the huge reservations, I support the proposals made by the importers by paragraphs 2 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? First line, Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, we have submitted this bill for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code together with a group of fellow MPs not from inaction, as you have started your speech, but at the request and insistence of the farmers and employees working in the Ministry of Interior who work under the Labour Code and the Law on the Civil Service. The arguments you presented against the submitted bill are absolutely unfounded and do not rest on any logic, because the first part of the bill is an opportunity for workers to work on the so-called day-to-day contracts not only at eight hours, but also at four hours due to the specific nature of agricultural activity. That's what I said in the Exhibition of Presentation of the Bill that there are some cultures like the pink color and like lavender, which can't have workers standing in the field and working for eight hours because they have specifics. They must be home within certain hours of the day. This is an opportunity for both employers and workers to actually pay these people, and not, as you say, that there is no point in this change. I also have a question for you. You for gray economy and lack of additional income for unemployed persons and the socially weak who receive social assistance from the BSP, and is this the social face of your socially responsible party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Second line? I won't. Here's your coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you say not by inaction. I have never accused the Bulgarian Parliament of inaction because the MPs are working quite intensively and seriously, and you say that you are doing so at the request and insistence of the farmers. I have no doubt that this is it, but you do not know which farmers you are meeting. For the most part, at the time of the entry into the Labour Code, they protested very seriously against the norm itself, and you, again, have corrected it several times. You say they insist on it. I will tell you a few more groups of people in the Bulgarian society who insist on several things, but you are not so cooperative with them. I will tell you that the same people to whom you solve problems and demands are protesting and, for example, they want higher subsidies. Should I tell you that the Bulgarian pensioners have been for a long time, but I will speak from the management of GERB for eight, nine years protesting and demanding recalculation of pensions, but you have not rushed so eagerly to solve their problem of recalculating pensions, and now you claim that you are solving the problem of farmers. You're not solving it, you're deepening this problem! In your reply to me, you raise the question that farmers wanted some less than eight hours of work day. Okay, they want it, but now that you've introduced and given the opportunity for four hours, will there be a normal farmer who can sign a contract for more than four hours, even though his workers have to work eight hours? I'll tell you there won't be one. And you're telling me, are you from BSP? No, on the contrary, we're not for the grey economy. Therefore, from our parliamentary group, we have declared and fought a battle with the parallel state - 90% of the parallel state - this grey economy. The gray economy, if you think that in any way with the day-to-day contracts you have brightened it up and waved it like some flag of success from GERB...................... just if it is your greatest success, I'm sorry, but it's funny. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u19	Mr. Gyokov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u20	If you want to say something, you're yelling from there. Once again, I don't know what your problem is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u21	Mr. Gokov, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u22	The grey economy is not a spoon for GERB's mouth. Sorry about the last one. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. To speak, Mr. Ademov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to say a few words in general about changes in labour law. Honourable Members, the proposed project is about changing two texts! That's not a principled approach. It cannot be based on conjunctural considerations and conjunctural demands and insistences of individual groups of Bulgarian citizens to change labour legislation. I see Mr. Kirilov is smiling in agreement with what I'm saying. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, that the approach to changing the Labour Code is not sufficiently thought out and serious, follows from the following fact: in the draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code is written: The draft amendment and supplement of the Labour Code. I stress the draft amendment and supplement. In the motives somewhere, the changes are lost. It says, "Motivations to supplement the Labour Code Act." But I ask you very much to specify whether the reasons apply to the additions and to the body of the law refer the additions and amendments. I understand that this is an oversight, but we are changing labour law anyway, and we need to deal with enough serious arguments for this. Next, it's about two paragraphs. In the first paragraph, colleagues here said: amendment to art. 114a, which regulates labour contracts for short-term agricultural seasonal work. What's this about? It is about the fact that the proposal is related to the removal of the second part of para. 4 The length of the working time is equal to the full duration of the work. Not just in the law in force, not just in art. 114a, and in the Order of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy it is noted that the working day lasts eight hours. To this ordinance, to para. 2 of this regulation has one form under which contracts of employment are signed. This form shall record the duration of the working time of eight hours. In order to help rosebuds at the moment, which we are talking about, which in May and early June have to do short-term seasonal work, we need this text in the regulation to change. This means a month of public discussion, a month of interagency discussion. At best, it's a matter of two months when the rosubert will be gone by now. In other words, this project will not do any good, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And another fact: what are we talking about? We are talking about an employment contract for short-term seasonal agricultural work. See what the labor inspector's register shows. To date, last year's employment contracts, which are required to register in the Labour Inspection Register, are 19,000. In 2018, to date there are 26 thousand. 300 with close to 7,000. 300 is more. But at the beginning of the year, in the first months of the year, the first four, anyone tell me what activities are related to short-term seasonal agricultural work? Is there no desire here for farmers, without blaming anyone, the employment contracts, the normal employment contracts, the fixed term contracts, or the performance of certain jobs, to switch into one-day contracts? Aren't we going to damage the social security rights of these Bulgarian citizens? These are the important questions to be answered when we accept these texts, ladies and gentlemen. I understand the intention to help, to have flexibility, to have the opportunity of those working until noon to ensure a legal opportunity, but also in the way that the arguments written in the reasons are presented are not correct in my opinion. Next, the next text. The next text is related to amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, see what is written in art. 142 of the Special Law for the Ministry of Interior: This text governs the status of employees in the Ministry of Interior. That is to say, whether they are state officials, police and fire safety authorities and population protection authorities, whether they are government officials or persons working in the employment sector. In other words, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are several types of state employees under the Special Law, civil servants under the Law on State Employees and Employees. When we amended the Ministry of Interior Act last year, we then gave civil servants, police authorities and bodies of fire safety and population protection, i.e. civil servants under the Ministry of Interior Act, the right to use overtime within 280 hours. And in the case of special hypotheses that are listed in the Law, there is a possibility that these 280 hours will be extended by another 100 hours at 25 hours a quarter. And all the other civil servants under the Civil Service Act, persons working in employment, are under the Labour Code, where there is a limit of 150 hours for overtime. What does it turn out to be? It turns out that civil servants under the special law of the Ministry of Interior are entitled to additional overtime at 70 hours a quarter, or 280 hours, with the option of requiring another 100 hours, and those to whom we now grant overtime under the Labour Code will be entitled to 150 hours. Are we creating a new contradiction and a new conflict between employees in the same office? And one more thing: colleagues, additional activities that are listed in order to be able to do overtime under the Labour Code are in the conduct of elections, in the preparation of expertise, for psychological assistance in operational and search work. It is about the employees who are involved in issuing the Bulgarian identity documents, it is about the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, it is about the Department of Migration, it is about the Research Institute of Forensics. These people will already be entitled to 150 hours extra overtime. Okay, we've said that it's a hypothesis where you have to work overtime. Well, what's extraordinary about it when elections are held? Two months before the elections were held, the date is clear! Can't we make such a schedule to allow for a summation of working hours? What's the problem? There's no problem at all! Moreover, according to information, I do not know how true it is, the Ministry of Interior has appointed an additional 500 people who can cover this schedule. Why additional overtime should be allowed, moreover that under the Code of Labour on Mass Cases overtime and prohibited by the hypothesis of exceptions where overtime is possible. These issues are the subject of discussion and these issues need to be settled in order for the proposed texts to work. Otherwise we accept some texts, we say that we have guaranteed flexibility, we say that we give them the opportunity to enter into employment contracts every four hours. Yeah, but under current law, art. 66 of the Labour Code, para. 1, t. 8 Accurately enables the employer and the worker to determine the length of working hours. What are we doing, then? I didn't get it when we discussed this law?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u25	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, these are not any texts, as you have completed your speech. These are important changes that have been dictated, as I said, by both farmers and employees who work under the Labour Code Act and the Civil Service Act, as well as trade unions. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee has received nearly ten opinions from the two trade unions, from employers' organisations, from state institutions, from the NSI, from the Ministry of Agriculture. And all the opinions are positive, there's not a single criticism! Everyone says these are important changes, long-awaited changes that are in favor of the quoted individuals who will affect this change. So I cannot agree with your claim that this change is not necessary. You yourself voted on the Committee on Labour and Social Policy to support this bill. And now you have concluded your statement that you have not understood what the purpose of these changes is. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u28	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Ademov! I'm taking a cue from the last words you said about art. 66. In this regard, I would like to ask you this question: do you not think that art. 66 generally regulates all types of labour law in terms of time and that instead of introducing four-hour contracts, it is high time to remove the day-to-day contracts? Let me just remind you: when we accepted them, you remember that in the discussion we talked about that these day-to-day contracts should be carried out in one year, let's do an analysis of what the results are with pros and cons, and then we can go on with them. I think, first of all, an analysis wasn't done. Secondly, we have all been convinced that these treaties violate the rights of workers, and essential social rights are violated by this thing. And that is why once again I would like to ask you the question: since you do not see the meaning, and I agree with you, of these amendments for four-hour contracts of employment is not the time to remove the day-to-day ones to return to the original text 66 of the Labour Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Back and forth. Whether there should be such an article. 114a of the Labor Code? This is a serious discussion. This text violates the principles of social security law and I will tell you why. Because the right to conclude day-to-day employment contracts has people who receive social assistance, they are entitled to people who receive unemployment benefits. The philosophy of receiving benefits is related to replacing income from work. Compensation is an income that replaces income from labor. Once you get an income for replacing income from labor, you get a second income from working. Which one is true? But I don't want to get into it because it's complicated. It is obvious that in this situation in the labour market, including what Mrs. Angelova said, the social partners with their positive opinions make compromises with the principles of insurance law. However, compromises are always at the expense of social security and labour rights. When compromises are made, it's always at the expense of something else. As far as I'm concerned, I don't see why these texts are being adopted. I said it, Mrs. Angelova, about this because the rosober and picketing of lavender, which are mentioned in the motives, will end before the adoption of the changes in this Law and before the changes in the regulation. Because without changing the regulation, which will take at least two months under the Law on Regulatory Acts, it will not work for this year. We accept this Law in the hope that it will work next year for these two activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u31	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very interesting people, the MPs. Yesterday at the Labour Commission constructively, quietly, calmly without any particular obstructions, without any comments we debated and almost all the opposition and the leaders, voted for a vote, with one exception Mr. Gokov. Now what's going on here? Here you simply search under the ox. Tel, speak oppositionly. On a committee where things are closed to the media, for observers, we are constructive, and here in the Chamber today we are doing such obstructions, we are introducing such topics, such remarks, as if the end of the world is coming, as if we are getting to the derogation of the Labour Code. We have had one debate at all about the Labour Code, which has nothing to do with the particular domestic case. I say homemade because it's in the order of domestic law. I am so delighted and pleased that this text brings us into mode to make fine adjustments in labour legislation and the Labour Code.................................. because such phenomena in the society, there are in the work. Of course, the rose is harvested in the morning and in the morning, the rosubert lasts at most 3 hours, with the lavender is the same. Officials of the Ministry of Interior, regulated under the special law of the Ministry of Interior, go on cases, on crimes and on any crime anywhere 24 hours a day, elections are held and to regulate these phenomena is normal, natural, logical. That is what this bill is doing, so the day before yesterday, I say to you again, the entire committee voted with one abstention and without these phrases, words and accusations. Here from this fact, perhaps another parliamentary scandal would have resulted, and I would have gone out to the stands to calm things down a bit and put them back in the normal mood of the debate. It is not that they will not arise and do not arise from these provisions problems, I have said and asked a committee, and now it is not clear to me: what is going on with the social benefits of the people? Yes, that is also a problem, but all these issues that have been raised here by both the honourable President of the Commission and Mr. Gokov and myself are resolved by the general provisions of the law. For each of the issues raised there are common parts of the Labour Code which decide these specific provisions. And if you don't decide there, there are instructions, there are regulations that will be issued. So let us not continue to do from here an excess which has been done many times to vote on the law as it is presented. And if there are proposals between the two readings for any changes and some even thinner settings and layouts, we can make them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? Dear Members of the Parliament are students from the school. St. Cyril and Methodius. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, I wonder if we've been on different committees, that we haven't understood what this is about? The construction really did have it in the Commission, but I said at the meeting the same thing I say here. And there wasn't only one abstentionist, there was one voice against one, and there was one abstentionist voice, even though everyone was worried about these contracts, including you. Only now let's clap our hands and hug each other and push it through just because someone wants it and move on with this messed-up thing, I don't know! You talk here, you're glad you're making fine adjustments to labour law. I don't know what a fine adjustment to labour law is to withdraw labour rights? I said them to you just now in my main speech, now I have no intention of repeating them, but one thing I will tell you is how the people's representation recorded in the same article. 114a, para. 1 what we are repairing now, and in para. 2 We have recorded that, according to this provision, work under this contract is not considered as service? What are we doing with this Labor Code? I don't know! And you yourself claim in your statement that there are problems with the application of this article and between the first and second votes we will correct it. The only proposal between the first and second votes may be art. 114a to drop out of the Labour Code as text. There's no other proposal and there can't be. I don't know! You decide, you vote, but I don't know why the MPs would vote on something I say again, it takes rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u36	Who says there can't be another offer? Do it between the two readings! Here in this regard it can be considered and can be done. So I went out earlier and told you between the two readings many of these problems can be solved, can be cleared. And, Mr. Gokov, we were on the same committee! And your co-parties voted all for. No one shared your views there. And I'll tell you why? Because some of them are from the constituencies where these problems are solved in relation to the rosobera, in connection with the harvesting of the lavender. And they are aware of the voters and the economic operators that this amendment is necessary. Even on the point that it wouldn't pass for this rosober or for this harvest from the lavender, well, if we tried hard, we could. But we don't just do it for the campaign this year, we do it for years! And we do it for other campaigns. And as for the Ministry of Interior, there things are permanent, there things will apply from here on a general basis if the Law is passed in the near future.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Yankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this opportunity to express an opinion on the so proposed additions to the Labour Code in both parts. But first I note to the importers and to those who are ready to support the proposal that you are again demonstrating your work on legislation in a piece. Among the importers, there may be no former firefighters among the ruling majority, but firefighters act in changing the labour legislation tabled by MPs, which will take away workers' rights. And a rhetorical question: what has changed in the labour market that further change is needed for farmers again? How did they work so far? Do the opinions you apply to us give the overall picture of the problem? Otherwise, I will speak more specifically about the transformation of the relations of some of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, which is required in relation to the amendments of the Law of 1 February 2017, and these are the provisions of art. 187a and 187a of the Ministry of Interior Act. Question: how has overtime been regulated so far? Has the law been violated so far when it comes to the overtime of employees of the Ministry of Interior? This is about these 14 months, more than one year, of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, whose status is governed by the Law on State Staff and the Labour Code and by the Department of the Department of the Bulgarian Identity Documents, the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate of Migration, the Research Institute of Forensics and the Institute of Psychology. This is a continuation of a strategy beginning with Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov, who passed through Rumyana Bachvarova, now Mr. Radev with the assistance of Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Tsvetan Tsvetanov as Minister of Interior had no view to change the legislation, although structural changes were then made in the Ministry. But now you are not hearing the screaming officials of the Ministry of Interior who want higher remuneration, who want respect from the political leadership of the authorities, but you are falsely announcing that you have heard the need to regulate overtime situations. But according to the Labour Code it will be up to 150 hours, according to the special law of the Ministry of Interior it is 280 hours a year, with hypotheses 25 hours a 3-month period, which as a balance those under the Ministry of Interior Act can do overtime up to 380 hours on an annual basis, and those under the State Staff Act and the Labour Code up to 150 hours. Dear colleagues, they work together, don't they? Right when there is a critical situation or there is a need for quick, efficient, timely engagement of staff for operational and search activities, the work at the Ministry of Interior is teamwork? Or this, no matter how much we tell you, you don't understand it!? The chaos at the Ministry of Interior with the beginning of a change in legislation and the division of different categories of employees continues. Otherwise, I agree that the need to include this type of work, the hypotheses in which, exceptionally, work can be done outside the established working time, stems from the fact that activities related to the preparation of expertise, psychological assistance in carrying out operational and search activities and critical situations are necessary. That's part of the motive. However, honourable importers, I ask you to answer me: why is the so- proposed addition written as well as other work related to security and public order? I accept the hypothesis that it is necessary to regulate legislation when it comes to the preparation of expertise and psychological assistance in operational search activities and the management of critical situations. I read to you from the proposal to supplement the Labour Code. But you're opening up the possibility not only of these hypotheses, as you wrote in the motives, but at all. And that is the question of whether there is a level playing field in determining this overtime, namely not only for critical situations, but also for operational and search activities if necessary. In this scope, who can answer: is the escape of two prisoners through the central entrance of the prison a critical situation and is there a need for overtime, or is the arrest of Sofia's navel on the centre? Is there a butchery to the proposal made? Because the overtime that employees do has to be paid. What is their fault that those who lead them are incompetent and do not know the order in which detention is carried out, or how exactly should they approach operational search events? Many issues that are not fully addressed in the motives. The mockery with the employees of the Ministry of Interior system continues. You will not block this cry of trade unions-organized officials from the Ministry of Interior who want a decent pay, respect, motivation and the first thing you need to do is to understand the nature of the work and understand that there is a need to increase the remuneration of those who are involved in ensuring compliance and enforcement of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u40	I don't know what happened. My question is to you from that idyll in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy so far, something has happened, must have belonged to Positano, and I guess what it is?! The Commission shall be voted unanimously, with the exception of abstentions and abstentions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So to Mr. Gokov. However, I suppose the "Positano" when considering the agenda, for what is to be seen today, is said: "But, how can we agree? Aren't we supposed to show our opposition? We need to find a calf under the ox, we need to politicize the debate. " - Although the debate is, again, domestic. What kind of politics is there here? But the BSP has always been true to this, once by the BCP, in every single thing, including mathematics, to bring a political element, ideology, something to do. At the moment, I feel guilty to my parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Yesterday I reported at the agenda meeting today about this law and I say: yes, calmly, normally, constructively, there will be no drama, there will be no problem and we quickly and easily passed the item on the agenda. I reported to my colleagues and we all decided that we were in favour of the bill. That's not how it is with you. Something must have happened to Positano and you can tell me what happened. Perhaps the opposition instruction was made, and today to turn the subject again, if possible, some scandal to arise from this. It is very interesting how those fellow Members from the Commission will vote, who voted indisputably for the Commission. I don't see much here, maybe that's why they're gone. How will all of the BSP vote, who have apparently convinced today to be radical, uncompromising and verbal opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov, come in. Third line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u42	Madam President, honourable Members. Dear Mr. Yankov, I have been following this debate for over an hour and a half with amazement, and in no way wanted to enter it, because I thought it was normal, in general, for you to exhibit another demagogic thesis, a turn, a delusion. It is a lie that these changes are not for the benefit of the worker and the employee are categorically. As colleague Angelova told you, all trade unions are about this. Of course it will be for that, because it is better for a job than having a contract for four hours than not having a contract; it is better to get a reward than not receiving a reward; it is better to have some insurance rights than not having any insurance rights. By the way, I also remember the debate on the emergence of this instrument. He was represented by the then Deputy Prime Minister, the respected Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, who is a socialist, confesses social views. [[(noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] , and we then regarded it as an entirely social instrument, a tool precisely to protect the employee's rights. I'm not going to tell you, as a former district manager of Sofia, how many employees work. It's an election day and night. Not only the Ministry of Interior is working, the whole administration is working, both municipal and public administration. There is a need for this, and they have rightly told you from the unions: if you are going to refine something, only the possibility of abuse should be refined, that is, of creating such fake contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The third line is Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. While it is moving towards the stands, honourable MPs, let me tell you that today's guests of parliament are young people from Shumen region who are on the balcony. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u44	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u45	I'm here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u46	Yeah, I was just looking for you. I am amazed by your critical statement on the Bill. Last Wednesday was the meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussing this bill. You haven't been to this meeting. Why didn't you stay in this meeting to make your case? [[Noise and lines.]] Didn't you just introduce them here? Next, according to the submitted report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, it is clear that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code was adopted unanimously by 13 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Take a look at your colleagues who voted for you. So it's hypocrisy on your part. [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u47	Mr. Iankov, after three lines you have the opportunity for a dot, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! No one so far has challenged what I have said in essence. This support point for the consent of all parliamentary groups collapsed with the first speech of colleague Gyokov of the parliamentary group. I asked you a question as to how the Ministry of Interior has regulated and paid overtime since 1 February 2017 and no one has responded. Has the law been broken? You're taking away labor rights. This hug suffocates not only the small partner, but also you, the representatives of GERB. I'm talking about the department where you hugged each other. So the proposed addition to the Labour Code is untenable as arguments to convince Mr. Kirilov that it is better to have a contract for four hours than not to have any contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u49	Yeah, and I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u50	You say there are workers without a contract. Where are the institutions that need to identify what they need to sanction? I'm talking to you about the work of institutions. You are trying to convince who, Bulgarian citizens, that we have agreed to take away labour rights, that we have not defended the interests of employees. You're taking them away! As harmless as you try to make this proposal for an addition, because there is no amendment to the Code, it is a continuation of your policy even when changing the Act for the Ministry of Interior. You have no concept and work firefighter perhaps because your leader, as a reflex, has this particular mentality and shows it daily! That is why I asked you: what is an emergency situation, a need for quick and urgent operational and search measures and events? The escape of two prisoners has shaken the state arrest and after the arrest explanation, the tenth day: has legislation, regulations been respected? And now you're trying to regulate? At least the employees who are extremely committed to staying in the center of Sofia, to work at night, not to complain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr Popov procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since this tribune is quite speculated by the government so far, and obviously their memory is quite short-lived, most reaching the horizon until last week, I ask you as chairman to remove the menograms from two and a half years ago when we voted this same law in terms of the day-to-day employment contract, and to familiarize the rulers with our then positions, how we voted, namely. We are consistent in our position, honourable rulers, so do not speculate in this way. In this case, the President could introduce you to the transcripts from two and a half years ago to remind you of our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I think that each MP himself forms his position on the basis even of what you want to pay attention to. I am hardly the institution that should provide any assistance, assistance or, God forbid, otherwise influence their position. Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, let's ask for an extension of the group's time. Members of Parliament, the current bill I want to talk about is in particular and only in the part of the proposed amendment of the Labour Code in art. 114a on the withdrawal of workers' rights and privileges. What do I mean? With this bill is confused the philosophy of the law, namely the proposal contradicts the philosophy of the law itself, the Labour Code and its concept. On this one-day contract, which is codified in art. 114a, lacks a characteristic of a contract of employment and is therefore not recognised for service. This employment contract is intended to arrange for the lawful employment of a labour force engaged annually for agricultural activities of a company nature and for a short period of time require a large number of workers. However, if we do assess the effects of the application of this legislation, several more important developments are revealed. With regard to insurance, the work on the day-to-day contracts is not recognised as an internship but is recognised as an insurance service, as it is provided for the workers to be provided in the Pensions and Employment Accident and Occupational Disease Fund; it is also provided for workers to be provided with health care, in which case the employer must pay the health contributions in advance. However, from the point of view of the workers, regulation of their labour thus creates legal uncertainty that they will get what they have worked out, as well as relevant social and health rights. This legal framework gives and creates poor practice among employers to avoid the demand and employment of workers on a permanent employment contract or on a temporary and appropriate reduction of control by the competent authorities. Thanks to the day-to-day contracts, a worker can be called to work today and not called tomorrow, thus being held in a subordinate position until it is not so easy at the time-term or at the time-term testing contracts. In this way, legislation and court protection are avoided. Consider, too, for whom this covenant applies. This contract may be concluded between a worker and an employer who is a registered farmer for occupations not requiring special qualification in the main economic activity of a plantation company, but only for the processing of plantations and manual harvesting of fruit, vegetables, lavender and colour from an oil rose. However, we must note that on the other side there are workers who are low-qualified, illiterate or age before retirement. They do not have the necessary legal culture, knowledge and degree of education to protect their own labour rights and privileges which they are entitled to. On the other hand, we also create an opportunity for the employer not to be conscientious to his workers. We are also facing another problem - the advance growth of employees in agriculture after the introduction of the day-to-day contracts - is a signal that the share of informal economy and undeclared employment in the sector is increasing. How has it so far been possible for these employers to carry out their work, their work, without having had such day contracts, but to have concluded such short-term or timeless contracts? The trend shows that the introduction of day-to-day contracts shifts traditional employment relationships. On average, 2015 and 2016 78% of persons insured under day-to-day contracts were not provided on any other basis for employment or service. The number of persons who were provided by hiring under a one-day contract for the period July 2015 to September 2016 exceeds 23 thousand, of which 17 700 were not provided on any other basis for employment or service. These data confirm the hypothesis that the majority of employed under day-to-day contracts are people who work entirely in the grey economy. Unfortunately, the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code does not solve problems, on the contrary, I would even say that it creates such in the legal field, nothing relieves, creates chaos in legal peace and in the caselaw. I believe that it is right and proper for the importer to withdraw it, as it is contrary to the basic concept of the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to Mr. Baichev? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Then we'll move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 954-01-20, submitted by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Plamen Nunev, Irena Dimova, Dimitar Gechev, Kalin Popovski, Rosen Zhivkov and Ralitsa Dobreva. They voted 143 MPs: 90 against 7, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group. Please come in, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's hear these words and pay attention again to the ruling coalition's MPs: The conference destroyed the work of generations before us, destroyed the work of several generational youths and showed complete disregard for young people at all. This conference was a textbook example of what is not the inclusion of young people in Europe. These are not your political adversary's words, these are not BSP's words, but the bitter truth spoken by Luis Alvarado, President of the European Youth Forum. The occasion: organized by you and failed European Youth Conference, which was held in Sofia within the framework of the European Presidency. Obviously, with this organization, the government failed. Such public assessments are not often given. We do not say it with gloat, because the stain is not only for the government, but for Bulgaria. In Bulgaria we know our ministers, we know how much national funds are spent to organize applause, for smiling photos, for media effects. We also know the style of the prime minister, who advises young people to become shepherds when it comes to unemployment, youth unemployment, or to plant potatoes when it comes to livelihood. At this unfortunate conference, the Prime Minister advised young people in Europe, notice, to breed. From what positions does the government give similar outside of all reason advice? Perhaps from the fact that the demographic crisis in our country is gaining threatening proportions, perhaps because of the fact that Bulgaria, honourable MPs, slowly but every day disappears. Every year, over 15,000. Young people leave the country and only a few return. Do you not realize that the simplification of politics and public life is one of the main reasons why we deprive ourselves of our children? Don't you realize that young people want to talk to them instead of you talking to them? They want dialogue, and you respond to them with phrases taken from the chalgotecs, and wait for the clackers to applaud your wits. Do you not realize that young people in Bulgaria do not see the possibility of professional realization with knowledge, with education, with their qualities? They see beautifully that in order to succeed, they must belong to the party-family circle of the rulers. Don't you realize that not everyone wants a future like this? Do you not realize that this conference was another missed opportunity for the authorities to speak openly with the Bulgarian youth and to present and compare their problems in the context of European life? Let us be clear: there is an alternative and we offer it to you every day. Lower interest rates on student loans. You rejected it, more concerned about the profits of the banks and not about the young Bulgarians. We have offered family income tax to help young people working with children. Cultural check for Bulgarian culture, for art, creativity, education. Four times, including today, you do not accept our proposal for the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Youth and for Young People. That's why we tell you every day: there is an alternative, but you need willpower, you need political will for it. It is clear that despite the organizational blunder and failure, Minister Lilyana Pavlova, Minister Krasen Kralev will not resign. Needless to say what European practice is when political responsibility is assumed, but at least today, honourable rulers, you owe a big apology, you owe an apology to the young people who are watching you today from the balcony. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Now, please give it up for the visiting group of students from the town of Lyaskovets. [[Applause.]] In addition, on the balcony to our right, mayors and municipal councilors from Kazanlak municipality. Please welcome these guests of ours as well. [[Applause.]] Thank you. We continue with the next point in our program: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONS SCARED WITH REGARD TO THE REASONING PRODUCTION. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the First Voting of the Bill. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, honored guests! I request a procedure for admission for the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u59	I put to the vote the procedure for admission to the Deputy Minister of Justice's room. 120 MPs voted: 114, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the Deputy Minister of Justice to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to the Members of the National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018. At its meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy of the Prosecutor General and Mr. Dimitar Vlahov, Director of the Department of Protection of the Prosecutor General. The bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who noted that it aims to create conditions for reducing the risk of counter-attacks against protected persons by optimizing special protection with a view to ensuring their safety. A definition of the concept of special protection is introduced, which provides for the implementation of two types of protection in two stages of prior protection and protection program. The special protection is always intended to start with prior protection, which aims to ensure immediate protection of the endangered persons and to apply until an order has been issued by the Prosecutor General or until a decision is taken by the Council on the protection of a protection measure for a period laid down in the law which may be extended once but not more than initially defined. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that it is envisaged that the Bureau of Defense will give a reasoned opinion on the proposal of the District Attorney or the Court of Justice on the possibility and type of a specific measure for the prior protection of the endangered person. The prior protection shall aim at providing time for the collection and evaluation of the information necessary to take an informed decision by the Prosecutor General to include or not the person under threat in the Protection Programme. The implementation of the preliminary protection measures is envisaged to begin following the order of the Prosecutor General and the written consent of the endangered person, and in the event of refusal of consent by the endangered person, the procedure should be terminated. The measures of prior protection are: personal physical security; property security; accommodation at a safe place and accommodation in another place for the punishment. Preliminary protection is proposed for a short 30-day period in order to be effectively implemented by the Bureau of Protection. Mr. Stoyanov noted that the draft proposed amendments to the existing protection measures under the Protection Program, which include: change of place of residence in the country; change of place of employment; change of the educational establishment; accommodation in another place for punishment, as well as relocation in another country. He pointed out that a mechanism for periodic assessment for the existence and determination of the degree of threat of the protected person was provided. The Bureau of Protection is obliged to deliver an opinion that takes into account the information on the development of criminal proceedings by the authority that made the proposal on the need to continue and the type of protection measures. The proposals for amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure aim to provide the victim with the necessary procedural guarantees in order to protect his fundamental rights and legitimate interests by establishing a legal framework that complies with the requirement of procedural economy and speed of criminal proceedings. It is intended to establish the same procedure and order of appeal and judicial review of the unlawful judicial acts by which criminal proceedings are administered. The Law on the Protection of Classified Information introduces a separate category of information to be classified as state secret with a view to securing the specific activities of the Bureau of Protection with the Prosecutor General. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev, who expressed their support for the bill. In response to the question asked by Mr. Kirilov, the representatives of the institutions pointed out that the measure was not applied in practice and its character was always fixed. Ms. Shishkova stressed that the proposed bill was agreed without comments from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, analyzing and sharing the European experience and best practices in the legislation of the Member States of the European Union in the area of the protection of persons threatened with criminal proceedings. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection and no abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Dear Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor for the Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018. At a meeting held on 19 April 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General at the VKP, and Mr. Dimitar Vlahov, Director of the Office for Witness Protection at the Chief Prosecutor's Office. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. He pointed out that the same is intended to create conditions to reduce the risk of counter-attacks against protected persons by optimising special protection with a view to ensuring the safety of endangered persons. The Law introduces a definition of the concept of special protection, which will include two types of protection and will be implemented in two stages. Prior protection shall also provide technological time to collect and assess the information necessary to make an informed decision by the Prosecutor General for inclusion or not of the endangered person in the Protection Programme. A change of the existing protection measures under the Protection Program is proposed, namely: change of the place of residence in the country; change of place of employment; change of the educational establishment; accommodation in another place for punishment, as well as relocation in another country. It is also intended to be possible for the Prosecutor General to validate samples of special clothing, distinguishing marks and service cards, order for their use by the staff of the Bureau of Defense with the Prosecutor General, as well as for the Prosecutor General to assign his/her powers under this law to his/her deputy. With the proposed amendments and additions to Annex 1 to art. 25 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is intended to specify a separate category of information classified as state secret, with a view to securing the specific activities of the Bureau of Protection with the Prosecutor General, including by supplementing this. 7 of Section II. During the discussion the MPs Mr. Philip Popov, Mr. Slavcho Velkov and Mr. Dimitar Lazarov addressed specific questions regarding proposed texts under paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, as well as regarding the funds of the Bureau of Protection. In response Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General at the VKP, and Mr. Dimitar Vlahov, Director of the Office for Witness Protection at the Chief Prosecutor's Office, pointed out that the adoption of the bill aims to reduce financial and human resources, as well as improve the interaction with other state authorities involved in the implementation of the special protection. Following the discussion in which the MPs expressed their support to the Bill, the Commission with 5 votes for the Law on Protection of Persons Threatened to Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor to speak. Mr. Velkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to say that what we are going to vote on today is, in our opinion, extremely important for the results and outcome of criminal proceedings. It concerns the protection of endangered persons. My colleague Popov and I took part in the Commission meeting. We voted for the draft, but I would still like to ask our guests, who are present here as importers of the Bill, because the case concerns the protection of life, the property of endangered persons and is related to a change of basic data, including identity; address; registration of motor vehicles; of movable and immovable property. We've received satisfactory responses from the importers, but I'm asking the question if, of course, they want to answer. How will security of information be ensured when changing key data at service level that register and re-registered? Let's say: people who are not familiar with the case are working in the Esgraun Office, in the DMV and elsewhere, where there are no requirements for confidentiality, how will the information be protected, or if we follow the Roman Sentence, who will protect us from the guards?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velkov, of course, your question to the Deputy Minister remains. I don't want to replace the importer in this explanation in any way, I'd rather take a line to explain it. We discussed quite in detail why a complete change of identity is required, and in fact one of the main arguments presented by the Director of the Protection Bureau was in this connection, because this means a complete change of identity to such an extent that the person's claims and legal status, including succession, are changed. It is obvious that, where the measure is temporary, it is applied provisionally. It is not necessary to notify other registrars who, to say say, maintain the register. With regard to the part about the new identity, about the time of the measure, about the time when the person is included in the protection, we explicitly underlined, and you also see it in the Law, and in the text that this is classified information and it is of the degree of classification of a state secret. I believe that in these cases the security of the so-called new identity of the endangered person is ensured. Thank you. Of course, the Deputy Minister will stay if he wants to.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Before I give the floor for further comments, honourable Members, please welcome our guests.. students from the Debate Club to the municipality of Petrich. [[Applause.]] Are there any other lines? I won't. Do you have any dots? Mr. Velkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have asked for an answer and interpretation from the importers. Mr. Kirilov tried to answer me. Part of the question, Mr. Kirilov, we have received the Commission's answer and we are satisfied. We recommended to our parliamentary group for a reason to vote on the adoption of the Bill at first reading. This is about something else. In the event of a change of identity, including the data on movable, real estate, property, then, when the ordinary employee in the municipality of..................I apologize for using your name, changing the identity of Mr. Emil Marinov Hristov, for example, of Mr. Ivan Petrov Ivanov, he will know that this person until yesterday was Emil Hristov. How can we guarantee that he will not spread that he will not share with his neighbor, since he is not confidentially obliged, has no access to this information? That's what I meant, and that's why I turned to the importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure, No 802-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, students from the language school of Ivan Bogorov are visiting us. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next point in our program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION TO ACTA TO ESTABLISH MILK ACADAJA, GEORGI STOKOVSKI, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW ON THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE LAW ON HIGH ARCHIVENESS. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u70	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am doing an admission procedure in Mrs. Klimentina Deneva's Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u71	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Deneva to the hall. Who will present the report to the Defence Committee? Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Admission procedure in Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov's room for points four, five and six of the National Assembly's adopted Work Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u73	Thank you. I understand you, Mr. Yankov, until the discussion of points four, five and six is over. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Zaprianov. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Zaprianov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u74	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision of the National Assembly amending a decision to bring the act of setting up the Military Academy in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher Education Act, No 802-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 March 2018. At a regular meeting of the Defence Committee held on 19 April 2018, a draft decision of the National Assembly was discussed to amend the Decision on the establishment of the Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. 18 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, Trayko Stoykov, Head of the Department of Education and Qualification, Andoneta Yakimova, State Expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Yordanka Petrova, Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Chairman of the Defence Committee noted that three draft decisions were presented on the Military Academy and Higher Military Schools. He pointed out that the proposed projects for a solution are basic acts of very important importance for the relevant military institutions. The drafts for a decision are discussed by a working group with the participation of experts from the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence, which has prepared proposals for the revision of texts. The proposed draft decisions shall be aligned with the existing structure of the amended decision, which shall result from the provision of art. 93, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Editorially and legally and technically they comply with the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is regulated that the rules of the Military Academy are issued by the Minister of Defence. The subject of activity has been revised. An opportunity has been introduced for the head of the Academy to be a habilitated person within the meaning of the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft decision was presented by Deputy Minister Zaprianov. The proposed changes are imposed due to the significant development in the last fifteen years of the activities of military education institutions both nationally and internationally. New specialties in accredited professional directions have been revealed. The interest in the education services taught is increased and the number of people willing to study in the military educational institutions is increased. There have also been changes in the legal framework and in particular in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, regulating the activities of the Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski. Amendments to the Act establishing the Academy are also required in connection with the implementation of the Program for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. The draft decision includes changes concerning the subject of activity, the functions of the Minister of Defence and the Administration of the Academy, as well as the appointment of the Chief of the Military Academy. Deputy Minister Zaprianov pointed out that the Ministry of Defence fully supports the proposals for editing the draft decision. Members of the National Defence Committee Kolyo Milev, Milen Mihov, Spas Panchev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Slavi Netsov took part in the discussion. Support was expressed for the edited proposals and welcomed the work of the experts. The positive fact was highlighted that the three documents were harmonised and the head of the Military Academy and senior military schools were placed under the same conditions. There was a desire for amendments to improve administrative capacity, functioning and funding opportunities for higher military schools. On the basis of the discussion held and the proposals made by 18 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: Supports in principle the text of the importer and proposes to the National Assembly to accept the following Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the establishment of the Military Academy in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher Education Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 1 and 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. Points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski is a structure of direct subjugation of the Minister of Defence. Sofia has its own flag, stamp and holiday 2. The subject of activity of the Military Academy "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski" includes: (a) training of listeners for the acquisition of higher education of the Master's degree of education in the professional field of military work. (b) training of students in the acquisition of higher education in the educational and qualification degrees of the Bachelor and Master in other accredited professional fields; (c) training of PhD students for the acquisition of higher education of educational and scientific degrees. (d) training to improve qualification; (e) specialised training, acquisition of qualification and professional training of servicemen, civilians, employees from other ministries and offices and of citizens under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (f) carrying out scientific and research activities in the field of security and defence and in other areas related thereto; (g) the development of scientific, publishing, sports and business activities related to the main activity of the Military Academy and the realization of its research results and other intellectual property sites; (h) other activities provided for by law, in an act of the Council of Ministers or commissioned by the Minister of Defence. 2. Points 7 "11" shall be amended as follows: "7." Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski is included in its structure: command, main units, branch, administrative and service units. 8. The Minister of Defence shall present to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm: (a) the number of participants accepted for (b) the number of students and PhD students accepted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Academic Council. 9. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, presents to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm the amount of fees for applying and training of students and PhD students. 8 (b). 10. The Academic Council, through the head of the Military Academy, is proposing to the Minister of Defence to confirm: (a) the official schedule of the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski. (b) the support staff of the Military Academy for civil servants at the expense of their own revenue; (c) the decisions for the opening, transformation and closure of departments, departments, scientific sections, administrative and service units at the Military Academy of Georgi Stoykov Rakovski. (d) the training plans for the specialities of the professional field "Military case', in agreement with the Minister of Education and Science; (e) the qualification characteristics of the specialties of the professional field of military work. 11. The head of the Military Academy is a soldier who may also be a habilitated person. He shall be appointed and dismissed under the terms and conditions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its powers shall not be terminated with the expiry of the term of office of the General Assembly. 3. Points 13 and 14 are amended as follows: "13." The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Chief of Military Academy Georgy Stojkov Rakovski, opens procedures for the occupation of: (a) free academic positions at the Military Academy of Georghi Stoykov Rakovski. Under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, the additional requirements for their occupation are laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; b) Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Master Instructor and Senior Instructor at the Military Academy of Georghi Stojkov Rakovski, under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. 14. The Minister of Defence or an official authorised by him on a proposal from the Academic Council submitted by the Chief of Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski: (a) appoints academic positions at the Military Academy (Military Academy), Georghi Stoykov Rakovski.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) appoints servicemen to the positions of a professor, a senior teacher, a instructor and a senior instructor at the Military Academy... Georghi Stoykov Rakovski.. under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (c) Releases soldiers from academic positions at the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski. In cases and under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Law on Higher Education. 4. Points 15 and 16: ..15. Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Chief of Military Academy, Georgi Stojkov Rakovski: a) approves topics for regular and background PhD at the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski. (b) opens procedures for the admission of regular and part-time PhD students at the Military Academy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules on the Construction and Activity of the Military Academy of Georghi Stoykov Rakovski. (c) charge for training persons admitted as regular and completed PhD students under point (b); (d) charge military and civilian personnel to PhD students by self-preservation. 16. The rules for the construction and operation of the Military Academy. "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski" is issued by the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Dear MPs, before announcing an interruption of the work of the National Assembly, a photo documentary exhibition was opened at the Club of the National Representative. The exhibition is prepared by photographer Stefan Papiukchiev from Kazanlak city with the active support of the Military Academy Georghi Stoykov Rakovski. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm announcing a 30-minute suspension of the National Assembly's work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u76	Honourable Members, we are continuing with the report of the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u77	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision amending the Decision on the alignment of the Act establishing the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski At its regular meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed Draft Decision amending the Decision establishing the Act establishing the Military Academy of Georgi Stoykov Rakovski in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education, No 802-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Angelina Lambreva, Director of the Department of Higher Education, General Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Traiko Stoykov, Head of the Department of Education and Qualification, Andoneta Yakimova, State Expert at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. He noted that the proposed amendments are required by changes in the regulations concerning education in the military schools that have occurred over the past 15 years. In 2009 a whole new Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. A new Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in 2010 and a number of amendments and additions were made in the Law on Higher Education. The proposed changes to the Project for a Decision are also in line with the adopted Program for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and with the adopted Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. In particular, the changes relate to the subject of activity in order to ensure the possibility, apart from students, to conduct training of servicemen for the acquisition of an educational-qualification degree of the Bachelor, specialized training of employees from other ministries and offices. The proposals related to the management bodies are in line not only with the Law on Higher Education, but also with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is specified that the Minister of Defence presents to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the number of accepted listeners at the Military Academy and students and soldiers in higher schools. Another part of the proposed changes differentiate the functions of the Military Academy and higher military schools management bodies related to the proposals to the Minister of Defence for the disclosure and closure of organizational structures, with the proposals for appointment and dismissal of soldiers from the academic staff and others. Next, the proposed changes synchronise the texts concerning the status of the Head, the Deputy Chiefs, the directors of departments, institutes and subsidiaries with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Supplements related to the exercise of the powers and appointment of the Chief of Military Academy and Higher Military Schools are proposed, providing for the possibility for the Rector to be habilitated in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. The Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova noted that the draft decision was discussed by a working group of experts of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence. The Working Group has made proposals to refine texts under the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the MPs are familiar with the texts concerning: - alignment with the existing structure of the amended decision which complies with the requirements of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 93, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the content and structure of the acts for the establishment and transformation of the military schools and the Military Academy respectively; - the subject of activity of the higher schools and the Military Academy, which should be refined in terminological and legal and technical terms with the requirements of art. 6, para. Art. 1, art. 21, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 43, Art. 63 of the Law on Higher Education; - alignment with the amendment of art. 95, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is necessary to amend the decisions as the Rules on the Construction and Activities of the Military Academy and the Higher Military Schools to be issued by the Minister of Defence and not by the Council of Ministers, as is the current order; - the text of the Defence Minister, on a proposal from the Academic Council, presents to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students, as well as the fee for applying to the listeners/cursants and to drop the words as well as the fee for applying to the students/cursants, given the powers of the Minister of Education and Science under art. 9, para. 3, p. 7 of the Law on Higher Education; - the proposal that the chiefs of the Military Academy and the higher military schools may also be habilitated persons in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and the Law on Higher Education. General Atanas Zaprianov expressed support for the recommendations of the working group. Support for the proposed editorials is also expressed by the Minister of Defence in a letter with letter. No CN-803-09-1 of 16 April 2018 The Deputy Minister of Education and Science Petar Nikolov also expressed support for the proposed editorials of texts from the draft decision. National Representative Anelia Klisarova asked a supplementary question about the possibility that the changes relating to the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski, the Higher Military School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov and the National Military University of Vasil Levski to be reflected in an act which was answered that the Military Academy and the Higher Military Schools are separate structures, part of the armed forces, and each school is created by a separate act of decision under the Higher Education Act. The National Assembly of the Committee on Education and Science expressed no objection to the proposed editorials of the Draft Decision amending the Decision to bring the Act establishing the Military Academy. "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski" in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result: 18 votes........................................ and 1 vote....................................... and 1 vote.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that I have a sentiment on the issues we are looking at, namely the draft decision to amend the decision to bring the act of setting up the Military Academy, as I am an alumni of the Military Academy and, of course, of the Military School Vasil Levski. That's not important, though. I would like to say that at last the higher military schools in Bulgaria found their compliance both in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces and in the Law on Education. I think that what is proposed is even late, although we can say that after its adoption we will have no concern that it is up to date and that this proposal was therefore supported by the Defence Committee, further proposals were made by General Milev, by Nikolay Tsonkov, Vice-President of the Commission. I would like to say to General Popov as President of the Commission that he honours you, that you have complied with them, and that the Commission for the last time has shown that national priorities have national responsible behaviour. Therefore, I also recommend that my colleagues vote for the adoption of these changes not only for the Military Academy, but also for military schools afterwards. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm also joining what was said just now. We have reached consensus in the Defence Committee and our parliamentary group will support the changes not only for the Military Academy, but for the National Military University, and for the Naval School. I would particularly like to address my satisfaction that it was finally given the opportunity for chiefs and directors of military education institutions to appoint not only servicemen, as is the case under the Defence and Armed Forces Act, but for the serviceman to be a habilitated person as well. Until now, there have been doubts about speculation, even discrimination in some respects, that a certain colonel or general has not been habilitated and can be easily replaced. In order not to get that impression, I think it is right to allow it to be both a serviceman and a habilitated person. It is noted that a number of our prominent commanders, working in the formations of the Bulgarian army and growing in the official hierarchy from lieutenant to colonel, general, at certain times of their service even on a mission, had no opportunity to habilitate themselves. This was an obstacle in some ways when they were candidates for chiefs of these schools or the Military Academy. Personally, I and our parliamentary group will support these three acts for which the amendment and the Appendix are being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to thank the two committees that have worked and the working group for the fact that it was extremely important to put on a person who could also be a habilitated person. When we talk about an academy, when we talk about a university, besides guaranteeing the quality and knowledge of military work for military schools, it is no less important to guarantee the quality of higher education. You know, these schools sometimes have a profile that isn't military, so it's extremely important to have a habilitated face in the school management. This is in connection with the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, with the Law on Higher Education and with our Strategy, namely that it is good to have the development of science in higher schools and in the Academy, because the achievements in defence are mainly related to the achievements of science. I hope that more habilitated individuals will participate in the management of the relevant institutions and will motivate young people towards career development in both directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u84	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision to amend the decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Military Academy - Georgy Stoykov Rakovski. In accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education, which was read to you a short time ago. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION TO ACTA TO ESTABLISH THE HIGH MILM SCHOOL - NIKOLA YONKOV VAPZAROV, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE LAW FOR HIGH LOCATION. A report from the Defence Committee. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision of the National Assembly amending the Decision to bring the Act establishing the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher Education Act, No 802-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. At a regular meeting of the Defence Committee, held on 19 April 2018, a draft decision of the National Assembly was discussed to amend the Decision on the establishment of the Act establishing the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education, No 802-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. 18 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, Trayko Stoykov, Head of the Department of Education and Qualification, Andoneta Yakimova, State Expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Yordanka Petrova, Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Chairman of the Defence Committee noted that the proposed draft decision was a foundational act of very important importance for the high naval school. The draft decision was discussed by a working group with the participation of experts from the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence, which has prepared proposals to refine texts provided to the members of the Defence Committee. The draft decision was presented by Deputy Minister Zaprianov. It has been noted that changes in the regulations governing the activities of military education institutions have occurred. Changes are also required in connection with the implementation of the Defence Capacity Development Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The changes are also the result of the development of the activities of the Higher Naval School in both national and international terms. New specialties in accredited professional directions have been revealed. The interest in the education services taught is increased and the number of people willing to learn is increased. Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov is among the twelve most prestigious maritime universities in the world. Deputy Minister Zaprianov pointed out that the Ministry of Defence fully supports the proposals for editing the draft decision. Members of the National Defence Committee Kolyo Milev, Milen Mihov, Spas Panchev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Slavi Netsov took part in the discussion. The MPs united around the proposals for editing. On the basis of the discussion held and the proposals made by 18 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: Supports in principle the text of the importer and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft of DECISION: amending the Decision establishing the Act establishing the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher Education Act (DV, No. 62 from 2002) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 1 and 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. Points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." The Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov is a structure of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, with its headquarters in the city of Varna and has its own flag, stamp and holiday. 2. The subject of activity of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov includes: (a) training of students and servicemen for the acquisition of higher education at the educational level of the Bachelor's degree in the professional field of military work and in specialties from the regulated profession, as well as in specialties from other accredited professional directions; (b) training for the acquisition of higher education in the educational and qualification degrees of the Bachelor and Master in other accredited professional fields; (c) training for the acquisition of higher education of educational and scientific degrees. (d) training to improve qualification; (e) specialised training, acquisition of qualification and professional training of servicemen, civilians, employees from other ministries and offices and of citizens under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (f) carrying out research and innovation activities and applied research; (g) the development of research, publishing, sports, cultural and business activities related to the main activity of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov and the realization of the research results and other intellectual property sites created by him; (h) other activities provided for by law, in an act of the Council of Ministers or commissioned by the Minister of Defence. 2. Points 7, 8 and 9 are amended as follows: "7." The Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov includes in its structure: command, main, administrative and service units. 8. The Academic Council proposes to the Minister of Defence through the Head of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov for validation: (a) the official schedule of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov; (b) the auxiliary official timetable of the Higher Naval School "Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov" for civil servants at the expense of their own revenues; (c) the decisions for the opening, transformation and closure of departments, departments, scientific sections, administrative and service units at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov. (d) the training plans for the specialities of the professional field "Military case', in agreement with the Minister of Education and Science; (e) the qualification characteristics of the specialties of the professional field of military work. 9. The head of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov is a military official who may also be a habilitated person. He shall be appointed and dismissed under the terms and conditions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its powers shall not be terminated with the expiry of the General Assembly's term of office. 3. Points 11 and 12 are amended as follows: "11." The rules for the structure and activities of the Higher Naval School "Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov" are issued by the Minister of Defence. 12. The Minister of Defence presented to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the approval by an act of the Council of Ministers of the number of accepted for training at the Higher Naval School of Military Affairs of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. The following points are inserted: "13." The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, shall present to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal for approval by an act of the Council of Ministers of: (a) the number of students and PhD students accepted for training at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov in the competence of the Council of Ministers; (b) the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students under the letter 14. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov, opens procedures for the occupation of: (a) free academic positions at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov. Under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, the additional requirements for their occupation are laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; b) Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Master Instructor and Senior Instructor at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov, under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. 15. Minister of Defence or an official authorised by him on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov. (a) appoints academic positions at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov (military) under the terms and conditions of the legislation in force; (b) appoints servicemen to the posts of a lecturer, a senior lecturer, a instructor and a senior instructor at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov, under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (c) Releases soldiers from academic positions at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in cases and under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Law on Higher Education. 16. The Minister of Education on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov: a) approves topics for regular and completed doctoral degree at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov; (b) opens procedures for the admission of regular and additional PhD students at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in the framework of the number established by the Act of the Council of Ministers under the terms and under the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules on the Structure and Activity of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov. (c) charge for training persons admitted as regular and completed PhD students under point (b); (d) appoints servicemen and civilian employees at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov to PhD students through independent training.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. The second report belongs to the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision amending the Decision establishing the Act establishing the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher Education Act, No 802-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. At its regular meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Draft Decision amending the Decision establishing the Act establishing the Higher Naval School of Naval Arts of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education, No 802-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Angelina Lambreva On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. He noted that the proposed amendments were imposed as a result of changes in the regulations concerning education in higher military schools over the last 15 years. In 2009 a whole new Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. A new Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in 2010 and a number of amendments and additions were made in the Law on Higher Education. The changes to the Project for a Decision are also in line with the adopted Programme for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and with the adopted Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. In particular, the changes relate to the subject of activity in order to ensure the possibility, apart from students, to conduct training of servicemen to acquire an educational-qualification degree of Bachelor and training of staff from other ministries and offices. The proposals related to the management bodies are in line not only with the Law on Higher Education, but also with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is clarified that the Minister of Defence presented to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the number of students and soldiers admitted to the military schools. Another part of the proposed changes differentiate the functions of senior military school management bodies related to the proposals to the Minister of Defence for the disclosure and closure of organizational structures, with the proposals for appointment and dismissal of military personnel from the academic staff and others. Next, the proposed changes synchronise the texts concerning the status of the Head, the Deputy Chiefs, the directors of departments, institutes and subsidiaries with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Supplements related to the exercise of the powers and appointment of Head of Higher Military Schools are proposed, providing for the possibility for the Rector to be habilitated in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. The Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova noted that the draft decision was discussed by a working group of experts of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence. The Working Group has made proposals to refine texts according to the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the MPs are familiar with the texts concerning: - alignment with the existing structure of the amended decision which complies with the requirements of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 93, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the content and structure of the acts for the establishment and transformation of the military schools and the Military Academy respectively; - the subject of activity of the military schools and the Military Academy, which should be refined terminologically and legally-technically with the requirements of art. 6, para. Art. 1, art. 21, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 43, Art. 63 of the Law on Higher Education; - alignment with the amendment of art. 95, para. 1 of the Law on Defense and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is necessary to amend the decisions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - the text of the Defence Minister, on a proposal from the Academic Council, presents to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students, as well as the fee for applying to the listeners/cursants and to drop the words as well as the fee for applying to the students/cursants, given the powers of the Minister of Education and Science under art. 9, para. 3, p. 7 of the Law on Higher Education; - the proposal that the chiefs of the Military Academy and the higher military schools may also be habilitated persons in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and the Law on Higher Education. General Atanas Zaprianov expressed support for the recommendations of the working group. Support for the proposed editorials is also expressed by the Minister of Defence in a letter with letter. No CN-803-09-1 of 16 April 2018 The Deputy Minister of Education and Science Petar Nikolov also expressed support for the proposed editorials of texts from the draft decision. National Representative Anelia Klisarova asked a supplementary question about the possibility that the changes relating to the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski, the Higher Military School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov and the National Military University of Vasil Levski to be reflected in an act which was answered that the Military Academy and the Higher Military Schools are separate structures, part of the armed forces and each school is created by a separate act of decision under the Higher Education Act. People's representatives from the Committee on Education and Science expressed no objection to the proposed editorials of the Draft Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of the Higher Naval School of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result of 19 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection and no abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in principle the draft decision submitted by the Council of Ministers, reflecting the proposed amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Do we have any speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. I'll make one clarification. In the draft decision, which we will be voting on in a moment, point. 16 has been read. The Minister of Education is the Minister of Defence. For the record, please note. I put to the vote the draft decision amending the decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Higher Naval School "Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov" in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 to shorten the period between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, which was adopted at first reading in today's meeting, to five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u90	Thank you, dear Sirakov. I put to the vote Mr. Sirakov's procedural proposal. 99 MPs voted: 81, Against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO TAKE A DECISION TO TRANSPONSE THE HIGH WONDERFUL SCHOOL WAS LEVISH, THE HIGH MILK SCHOOL FOR ARTILERIA AND THE PROVERSION OF WOLV AND THE HIGH MILK SCHOOL SCHOOL "GEORGE BENKOVSKI" IN NATIONAL MILE UNIVERSITY WAS LEVISH. Mr. Stankov will introduce us to the Defense Committee report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u91	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision of the National Assembly to amend the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military Military General School of Vasil Levski (Vasil Levski), the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence (ATS), Panayot Volov (Voorgi Benkovski) and the Higher School of Staff at the National Military University of Vasil Levski (Vasil Levski), No 802-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. During a regular meeting of the Defence Committee, held on 19 April 2018, a draft decision of the National Assembly was discussed to amend the decision to convert the Higher Military Military Military Military School to Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence, Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 802-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. 18 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, Trayko Stoykov, Head of the Department of Education and Qualification, Andoneta Yakimova, State Expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Yordanka Petrova, Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Chairman of the Defence Committee noted that the proposed draft decision was a foundational act of very important importance for the National Military University. The draft decision was discussed by a working group with the participation of experts from the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence, which has prepared proposals to refine texts provided to the members of the Defence Committee. The draft decision was presented by Deputy Minister Zapreyanov, who stressed that the changes reflect changes in the regulations governing the activities of the military educational institutions. Changes are also required in connection with the implementation of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. The main changes regarding the subject of activity, the management bodies; the functions of the Minister of Defence and the management bodies of the National Military University, the appointment and exercise of the powers of his superior. The changes are also the result of the development of the activities of the university and revealed new specialties in accredited professional directions. Deputy Minister Zaprianov pointed out that the Ministry of Defence fully supports the proposals for editing discussions Draft decision. Members of the National Defence Committee Kolyo Milev, Milen Mihov, Spas Panchev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Slavi Netsov took part in the discussion. The MPs united around the proposals for editing. On the basis of the discussion held and the proposals made by 18 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: Supports in principle the text of the importer and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft of DECISION amending a decision to convert the Higher Military Military Military General School to Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Anti-Audience Defence.. Panayot Volov.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 1 and 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. Points 2 and 3 are amended as follows: "2." The National Military University of Vasil Levski is a structure of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence. Veliko Tarnovo has its own flag, stamp and holiday "November 26." 3. The subject of activity of the National Military University "Vasil Levski" includes: (a) training of students and servicemen for the acquisition of higher education of the educational and qualification degree of the Bachelor's degree in the professional field of military work, in the field of higher education, in the field of security and defence, in the specialties of the regulated profession, as well as in the fields of higher education, social, business and legal sciences, (b) training for the acquisition of higher education in the educational and qualification degrees of the Bachelor and Master in other accredited professional fields; (c) training for the acquisition of higher education of educational and scientific degrees. (d) training to improve qualification; (e) specialised training, acquisition of qualification and professional training of servicemen, civilians, employees from other ministries and offices and of citizens under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (f) carrying out research and innovation activities and applied research; (g) the development of publishing, sports and business related to the main activity of the National Military University and the realization of its research results and other intellectual property sites; (h) other activities provided for by law, in an act of the Council of Ministers or commissioned by the Minister of Defence. 2. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." The National Military University of Vasil Levski is included in its structure: Command and administrative units, three faculties with schools in the town of Vasil Levski. Veliko Tarnovo, gr. Shumen and gr. Lower Metropolitan, as well as other major and service units. 3. Points 9 "11" are amended as follows: Nine. The rules on the structure and activities of the National Military University are issued by the Minister of Defence. 10. The Academic Council is proposing to the Minister of Defence through the Head of the National Military University of Vasil Levski for validation: (a) the official schedule of the National Military University of Vasil Levski. (b) the staffing schedule of the National Military University for civil servants at the expense of their own revenue; (c) decisions on the opening, transformation and closure of departments, departments, scientific sections, administrative and service units; (d) the training plans for the specialities of the professional field "Military case"......... with the Minister of Education and Science................................................. with the Minister of Education and (e) the qualification characteristics of the specialties of the professional field of military work. 11. The head of the National Military University is a soldier who may also be a habilitated person. He shall be appointed and dismissed under the terms and conditions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its powers shall not be terminated with the expiry of the General Assembly's term of office. 4. Points 13 "15" shall be amended as follows: "13." The Minister of Defence presented to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the approval by an act of the Council of Ministers of the number of students accepted for training at the National Military University of Vasil Levski....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 14. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, shall present to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal for approval by an act of the Council of Ministers of: (a) the number of students and PhD students accepted for training at the National Military University of Vasil Levski................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students under the letter 15. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the National Military University, Vasil Levski. (a) free academic positions at the National Military University "Vasil Levski" under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and the additional requirements for their occupation are laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) Free posts at the National Military University (Vasil Levski) under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. 5. New t. is being created. 16 and 17: ..16. Minister of Defence or an official authorised by him on a proposal from the Academic Council submitted by the Head of the National Military University Vasil Levski: (a) appoint academic positions at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. (b) appoints servicemen to the positions of a lecturer, a senior lecturer, an instructor and a senior instructor at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (c) Releases soldiers from academic positions at the National Military University "Vasil Levski" in cases and under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Law on Higher Education. 17. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the National Military University Vasil Levski: a) approves topics for regular and background PhD at the National Military University "Vasil Levski"; (b) opens procedures for the admission of regular and additional PhD students at the National Military University "Vasil Levski" in the framework of the number established by an act of the Council of Ministers under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules on the Construction and Activities of the National Military University "Vasil Levski"; (c) charge for training persons admitted as regular and completed PhD students under point (b); (d) appoints servicemen and civil servants at the National Military University of Vasil Levski to PhD students through independent training. 6. Previously on "T." 16, 17 and 18 become 18, 19 and 20 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Stankov. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on the Draft Decision amending the Resolution on the Transformation of the Higher Military Military General School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Anti-Soul Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff at the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 802-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. At its regular meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Draft Decision amending the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military General Military School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at the National Military University of Georgi Benkovski, No 802-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Angelina Lambreva, Director of the Department of Higher Education, General Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Traiko Stoykov, Head of the Department of Education and Qualification, Andoneta Yakimova. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. He noted that the proposed amendments are required by changes in the regulations concerning education in the military schools that have occurred over the past 15 years. In 2009 a whole new Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted, in 2010 a new Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted and a number of amendments and additions were made in the Law on Higher Education. The proposed changes to the Project for a Decision are also in line with the adopted Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020, as well as with the adopted Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. In particular, the changes relate to the subject of activity in order to ensure the possibility, apart from students, to conduct training of servicemen for the acquisition of an educational-qualification degree of the Bachelor, specialized training of employees from other ministries and offices. The proposals related to the management bodies are in line not only with the Law on Higher Education, but also with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is clarified that the Minister of Defence presented to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the number of students and servicemen accepted in the military schools. Another part of the proposed changes differentiate the functions of senior military school management bodies related to the proposals to the Minister of Defence for the disclosure and closure of organizational structures, with the proposals for appointment and dismissal of military personnel from the academic staff and others. Next, the proposed changes synchronise the texts on the status of the Head, Deputy Chiefs, the directors of departments, institutes and subsidiaries with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Supplements related to the exercise of the powers and appointment of Head of Higher Military Schools are proposed, providing for the possibility for the Rector to be habilitated in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. The Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova noted that the draft decision was discussed by a working group of experts of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence. The Working Group has made proposals for the clarification of texts under the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the MPs are familiar with the changes concerning: - alignment with the existing structure of the amended decision which complies with the requirements of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 93, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the content and structure of the acts for the establishment and transformation of the military schools and the Military Academy respectively; - the subject of activity of the higher schools and the Military Academy, which should be refined terminologically and legally-technically with the requirements of art. 6, para. Art. 1, art. 21, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 43, Art. 63 of the Law on Higher Education; - alignment with the amendment of art. 95, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is necessary to amend the decisions, such as the Rules on the Construction and Activities of the Military Academy and the Higher Military Schools, to be issued by the Minister of Defence and not by the Council of Ministers, as is the current order; - the text "The Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Academic Council" presents to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students, as well as the fee for applying to the students/cursants, in which to drop the words as well as the fee for applying to the students/cursants, given the powers of the Minister of Education and Science under art. 9, para. 3, p. 7 of the Law on Higher Education; - the proposal that the chiefs of the Military Academy and the higher military schools may also be habilitated persons, in accordance with the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and the Law on Higher Education. General Atanas Zaprianov expressed support for the recommendations of the working group. Support for the proposed editorials is also expressed by the Minister of Defence in a letter with letter. No CN-803-09-1 of 16 April 2018. The Deputy Minister of Education and Science Petar Nikolov also expressed support for the proposed editorials of texts from the draft decision. People's representative Anelia Klisarova asked a supplementary question about the possibility that the changes concerning the Military Academy "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski", the Higher Naval School "Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov" and the National Military University "Vasil Levski" to be reflected in an act which was answered that the Military Academy and the Higher Military Schools are separate structures, part of the armed forces, and each school is created by a separate act of decision under the Higher Education Act. Members of the Education and Science Committee expressed no objection to the proposed editorials of the draft decision to amend the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military Military Military General School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Higher School of Higher Education. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result of 18 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 1 vote, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly that the draft decision submitted by the Council of Ministers should be adopted in principle, reflecting the proposed amendments and additions. [[Applause and singular shouts "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the draft Decision amending the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military Military General School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff at the National Military University Vasil Levski. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We move on to item seven of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADDUCTION OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY [[total Project drawn up by the Energy Commission on the basis of the bills adopted at the first vote on 4 April 2018 with importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 8 March 2018; Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov, 27 March 2018]] . Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, to brief us on the report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on the General Draft Law of the First Voting on 4 April 2018. Draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov, submitted on 27 March 2018, and Draft Supplement to the Energy Act, No 854-01-17, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u96	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u97	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following 1. In para. 2 the words "Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria" are replaced by "Strategie for Sustainable Energy Development of the Republic of Bulgaria." 2. In para. 3 the word "Energy" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u98	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u99	Madam President, although the Commission supports this proposal, I would like to explain what this is about. So far in Bulgaria there are over 400 strategies, only new and new ones are created and their number is increasing. Maybe this is the first time we've reduced them and combined two strategies into one. Currently, there is a concept in the Energy Strategy Act, in the Energy Efficiency Act, there is a Strategy for Energy Efficiency and Two Strategies that needed to be adopted. One was adopted in 2011, the other was still not accepted, I do not know for what reasons, and it is being worked on. Moreover, these are two interconnected problems, as the Energy Efficiency Strategy develops those measures and policies that allow the state to deal more rationally with energy and, accordingly, specify what amounts of energy on the basis of the measures taken at the relevant financial costs will be necessary in the future. We now have a strategy that defines the generation and power associated with energy, and it somehow does not feel attached to the Energy Efficiency Strategy, so we are currently proposing a combination of the two strategies in the Sustainable Energy Development Strategy, where, based on the development of policies in the energy efficiency part, measures for rational use of energy and the projected need for energy in the future, the second part of this strategy will be developed, which will ensure the relevant energy capacities to meet consumption and the need for such energy. That's the idea. I think we were able to find out in the Commission what it was about. I hope you will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 1. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u101	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Delyan Dobrev The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new § 1 is being created. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "7." approve energy restructuring programmes and strategies and maintain up-to-date information on announced intentions of sales, transformations or mergers of companies that are part of critical energy infrastructure; Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, establishing para. 4 in art. 4. The competent authorities shall provide the Minister of Energy with the necessary information in view of its functions under para. 2, p. 14...................................................................... The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words "Energy strategy" shall be replaced by "Sustainable energy development strategy"; (b) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. is the administrator of State aid and de minimis aid in the field of energy; (c) c. 21 after the word "Sources" "Sources" is added from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat. 2. In para. 3 the word "Energy" is deleted. 3. The creation of para. 4. The competent authorities shall provide the Minister of Energy with the necessary information in view of its powers under para. 2, p. 14."....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u102	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy, which the Commission does not support. They voted 116 MPs: 42, against 22, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the creation of § 2, which the Commission supports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u103	Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u104	Proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 after the words "energy label', the hydropower systems that are part of them are added, with an up-to-date assessment of the state and risks associated with their economic situation and the security of operation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3, with a text which was presented by the President of the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u106	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following 1. In para. 1 and 2 the words "Energy strategy" shall be replaced by "Sustainable Energy Development Strategy." 2. In para. 5 words "Energy strategy" shall be replaced by "Strategie for Sustainable Energy Development of the Republic of Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4, with a text which has been submitted by the President of the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u108	Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following 1. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The activities of the administration shall be carried out by persons working in the employment sector. The employment relations of the Commission staff shall be governed by the provisions of the Labour Code. (4) An official of the Commission may not be a person who: 1. is convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 2. it would be in a hierarchic relationship of guidance and control with a husband or wife, with a person with whom he is in actual cohabitation, with a straight line with no restrictions, on a boardline to the fourth degree including, or by matchmaking to the fourth degree including; 3. is a sole trader, unlimited liability partner in a trading company, manager, sales agent, sales representative, prosecutor, trading intermediary, liquidator or trade union, member of a management body or control body of a trading company or cooperative; 4. is a Member of the National Assembly; 5. hold a leadership or control position at national level in a political party; 6. exercise control over an energy undertaking and/or a water operator or hold directly or through connected persons over 5 per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting or of the capital of the energy undertaking and/or the water operator; 7. is a member of the managing or control bodies of an energy undertaking and/or a water operator or is authorised to manage or represent an energy undertaking and/or a water operator without being a member of its management or control bodies; 8. working on an employment or civil service for an energy undertaking and/or a water operator. 2. They're creating an al. 5? 7: In the conclusion of the contract of employment and each year by 15 May the Commission's staff shall be obliged to submit to the Chair of the Commission a declaration of property and interests under art. 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property. This obligation does not apply to staff holding technical posts. (6) The staff who hold a leading position shall have a higher education with a minimum degree of education and qualification in the field of economy, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate, with a view to the regulatory functions of the Commission's speciality and professional experience in the specialty of not less than three years. (7) In the event of changes in the circumstances under para. 4 persons shall notify the Chair of the Commission in writing within 7 days, who shall be obliged to act in accordance with his or her legal powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u109	Statements? Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Commission and I have supported this text, but I am asking today from the parliamentary platform to share a few of our concerns and to clarify this vote to us. BSP has always proposed an increase in the administrative capacity of the regulator. I recall several discussions on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria when we have made a proposal precisely to increase the Commission's budget for energy and water regulation. Relatively, this is what it looks like from the licences issued, authorisations and fees they charge, the Commission collects about 11 million. Its activities account for about 4 million. BGN so that the Commission itself can support itself from its revenues. With these proposals, the current and those we will then make in several other paragraphs, we will enable this revenue to remain in the Commission. We have always had a permanent position on this because you know how important the decisions of this body are. In the context of the scandal that is happening with the CEZ deal and entering the new price period, you see questions again: how and in what way does the regulator manage to verify the implementation of investment programmes that directly influence the quality of the service and hence directly refer to the price of electricity received and delivered? All these things are the regulator's decisions. You know that his decisions affect huge corporate interests. It's quite normal for employees there to be stimulated, and that's what I always say, we've done it consistently. We asked the importers to argue why a change of employment is needed. The comment was that this was agreed, and the current status of civil servants of the members of the Commission does not allow them to be substantially stimulated. I would like to say that we trust this statement, but we have also put the matter before the President of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I would like to say clearly that from now on we will monitor how the work of the Commission will be carried out, because giving the President the opportunity to stimulate and increase the wages of the employees should not be done at the expense of withdrawing their rights and in no way allow confusion in the work of the regulator, reorganising these relations. We asked Mr. Ivan Ivanov in the portfolio committee, the least he can do is to present the Internal rules for salary and Internal rules for work so that the employees can really be calm about their future and carry out their functions. With this remark, I say again, we will support this decision, as it is a step in the right direction to develop and strengthen the regulator's capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, only two sentences for § 1. Madam Minister, I welcome you to have a very serious task ahead of you. You are tasked with making as much of a strategy as possible. I hope this time this strategy will be prepared not by the administration of the Ministry, but to find the opportunity to make use of all the capacity of the Bulgarian Energetics in order to have a new strategy to give a vision for development of energy by 2030, by 2050. I see that as administrator of state aid your tasks are very large, but I believe that the beginning has been set. I welcome the fellow Members who have proposed this paragraph. Let's go back to § 5, which we are currently discussing. Fellow Members, when dealing with such serious laws, non-seriousity is evident when proposals are made between first and second readings that are not discussed at first reading. When the law was introduced to us here, the idea was to change the overall philosophy of electricity trading, to make it go through the stock exchange. The stock exchange should be that entity through which we initially make all those rules through which electricity trade will pass, knowing that we monopolise the exchange, but it was necessary for the state. Why was it necessary to propose today to reduce the Commission's level of energy and water regulation and the administrative capacity that they had so far as civil servants and to do them in labour law? I tried to find an argument from the colleagues who made this proposal. God, I couldn't find it because if you wanted to increase administrative capacity, in 2015 we, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, offered you from this platform to have two committees for energy and water regulation: one for electricity, the other to be on water. Then the number of commissioners will be such that they, in addition to determining the price of energy and the service that the final customer will receive, are able to carry out monthly audits of production capacity, distribution power plants. Because today, asking why CEZ is being sold and we don't know, then we'd already know. Asking the question that someone in energy steals, the audit done by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission would be with a report before us, with a monthly report, and we would know what is going on. I am far from thinking that the government has hidden before the public the way in which all the things that are being done in energy should be taken into account. Now I doubt once again that by trying to increase the salaries of those working in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we are giving colleagues the opportunity to deal with the party functionaries of those Commission officials who do not comply with the rules of party requirements. Colleagues, Mr. Ivanov is chairman today. He told us he wouldn't replace any of the employees. Is that enough? I am not convinced that the next to come to rule, and now the government will not put pressure on you, given that Mr. Ivanov is a very collegiate, good person. I do not know how he will resist the pressure on him to make certain employees of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be replaced. Therefore, colleagues, our argument is to leave the Commission's independence for energy and water regulation, to vote against it, to remain employees there as civil servants, protected by the law, protected by any political intervention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u113	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of this text is, by the way, a proposal of the regulator itself and supported by the regulator, and is not an idea that has come to the Members of the National Assembly when, later in the Law, we give financial autonomy by voting on the texts of financial autonomy, the regulator has the opportunity to increase the remuneration of administrative staff within the regulator itself. You know that under the Civil Service Act there are restrictions, there are limits to the ranking positions, and salaries in energy are significantly higher. That is to say that the employees in the regulator are civil servants restricts the possibility for them to receive even the average wage for the sector. Whether they are civil servants or in employment, it has absolutely no meaning if we are talking about the independence of the regulator. With what does a civil servant, compared to an employee appointed in employment, make the first more independent than the second? And last but not least, of course, if you look at the next paragraph, we actually give these employees the same protection as civil servants, only without them being civil servants. That is, on the one hand, they are not civil servants, they can receive the average wages for the sector, say about 3000 BGN, and at the same time have the protection from the Law with all the rights that the civil servants have. In this sense, the only change is in the direction of enabling the regulator to select quality specialists and not to be the last alternative to anyone seeking development in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u116	Mr. Dobrev, once again you convince me to read the next paragraph 6. You say that there you copy absolutely all the requirements that the civil servant must have. Then why aren't there any civil servants left? For the simple reason that when they go on a labour-legal relationship, you can deal with them, fire them and appoint them whenever you want. The second argument about their pay, because now the employees, when they hear that their salaries will rise, their hearts tremble. As a civil servant every quarter, they also, on the basis of an assessment, have the opportunity and the right to raise their salaries by 15%. Will this Commission from now on be as independent as we all want, or will the next to come to rule, and the next to be president, will line up all those who participated in the elections on their table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u117	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u118	Mr. Atalay, you're wrong, and if you read al. 7 of the following paragraph, it reads: "The Commission's officials shall be subject annually to an assessment of the performance of the labour force in order and so on. The employment of an employee may be terminated without notice when he has received the lowest possible annual assessment of the performance of the employee. It's the same text as in the Civil Service Act. That's the defense in the Civil Service Act. No other member defends them that way. Among other things, see para. 6: The Commission's members and administration shall be insured with the insurances of Life and Accident at the expense of the Commission's budget and so on. Once again, I'm telling you all the rights are given. If we accept your proposal not to support the transition to the employment relationship, this means that these employees will remain with maximum salaries around BGN 2000. Maximum salaries as per the Civil Service Act. Besides, you're wrong about that 15% increase. There's no such increase. Further material stimulation may be given on a quarterly basis. Put 15% on BGN 2,000. How much is it going to be? 2300 lv. Do you know what the average cost of an energy worker is? "3600" 3700 BGN. Is it going to happen with your 15% as much as the average energy? That's not gonna happen. If we accept your proposal, you set a salary limit in the regulator, which has no relation to the reality of energy. The rewards in energy are higher. Give the regulator the opportunity to appoint quality specialists, not to appoint people who elsewhere in the energy sector have not taken them, because given that elsewhere in the energy sector they have paid higher salaries, they have gone to NEK and to Bulgartransgaz and everywhere else. They didn't take them anywhere, so they go to the lowest salary in the regulator. And then ask for quality from the regulatory service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u119	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 and the text has been presented to the Members of the National Assembly. They voted 129 MPs: 109 against 1, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u120	Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. 16a. (1) The basic monthly remuneration of the Commission staff shall be determined by the President in accordance with the Internal Staff Regulations adopted by the Commission and within the limits of the resources available to the budget for the year concerned. (2) The staff of the Commission may receive additional remuneration for the results determined in order and in a manner established by the Internal rules on salary. (3) Where a post in the administration of the Commission is occupied by an employee with a higher legal education, the acquired service or service experience shall be recognised as an internship in the specialty of law. (4) The members of the Commission and the staff shall be entitled, on an annual basis, to representative clothing of up to three minimum salaries, with the means provided by its budget. The individual amount of funds shall be determined by the President of the Commission. (5) The staff of the Commission may be awarded with awards and/or prizes up to the basic monthly salary for the performance of certain tasks within the budget available for the year concerned in order and in such a way as to be established by the Internal rules on salary. (6) The members and the administration of the Commission shall be insured with the insurances of Life and Accident at the expense of the Commission's budget. (7) The Commission's staff shall be subject annually to an assessment of the performance of employment in order and in such a way as to be established by internal rules. The employment relationship of an employee may be terminated without notice where he has received the lowest possible annual assessment of the performance of the post within one month of receipt of the final assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u121	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text presented by the President of the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u122	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, b. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article Proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 22a the words the licence holders shall be replaced by the licence holders. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 21 a sentence second is created: the supplier does not determine the availability of producers whose regulated price exceeds by more than 10 percent the estimated market price for the regulatory period, with the exception of those under art. Art. 93a. 94. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. They're creating a t. 8b and 8c: 8b. determine annually by 30 June premiums for electricity from renewable sources and from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat produced by plants with a total installed electricity capacity of 4 MW and more than 4 MW; 8c. for pricing purposes, determine annually by 30 June the estimated market price of electricity to cover the technological costs of the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 the word "hospitable" shall be replaced by "or at its own initiative" adopted or amended. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 17 after the word "supplied" is added and "Secretary System Security" is added and the words "unrecoverable" and resulting from their obligations towards society are deleted. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 21 a sentence second is created: the supplier does not determine the availability of producers whose regulated price exceeds by more than 10 percent the estimated market price for the regulatory period, with the exception of those under art. Art. 93a. 94. 5. A t is created. 22a: 22a. requires the owners of licence holders under this law within the annual reports on the implementation of the licence holders to declare the existence of intentions of separation, separation, merger, disposal of shares or shares representing more than 20 per cent of the capital or sales of parts or all the assets of the energy company; 6. They're creating a t. 41a and 41b: 41a. monitor the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (OB, L 326/1 of 8 December 2011).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011'; 41b. interacts with state authorities and cooperates with regulatory authorities of other Member States of the European Union and ASRE by concluding information exchange agreements and establishing mechanisms under Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Speech said the people representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I take the floor as I may have to take the tape back a little bit and remind you that this bill has been drawn up and is a bill of two bills passed at first reading. One belongs to colleagues from the Political Party GERB, which occupies the main volume. The other one belongs to the United Patriarchs, who has only two texts. Two texts, however, are very important, which were aimed at the extremely unpleasant public situation, which arose from the sale of CEZ's assets in Bulgaria to an unknown company. The fact that we all shared at the time at first reading is that there is no state instrument by which the state can regulate whether the acquirers of such a type of company are so important for national security and for security of supply of millions of people, to assess whether this will cause any risks. In practice, in violation of art. 84, para. 2 in the part where it is said that the proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the first vote of the bill are not discussed in the Energy Commission, we adopted the proposal of the MPs Mr. Ramadan Atalay and Mr. Bürhan Abase of the DPS. They, with two texts for dropping these two of our texts, have virtually abolished the entire Bill adopted at first reading - something that I think is procedurally unacceptable. Moreover, there is no such text in the Commission's report itself at the moment. I, first of all, procedurally insist on Art. 23a by importer to be put to the vote separately, as it is not legally justified that it be removed from the possibility for Members of the National Assembly to vote for it. In essence, I can call again on all those who are for transparency in energy, all those who want to have some control, and state control, to support this text, because it is simple, but I think it will be working enough and will oblige all the owners of shares and shares, respectively, in commercial companies carrying out the transfer or distribution of electricity, to coordinate these sales. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should approve the new buyer on a basis, of course, not on any whims, but on the basis of national security criteria, ensuring security of supply and public order. Texts which are in exactly the same way laid down in the case of withdrawal of a licence. And if these equity owners are not good enough to ask the State before they sell, they should be sanctioned accordingly by revocation of a licence and the State should therefore become in its role and appoint a special manager of the enterprises. I say again, which are of strategic importance to the Bulgarian energy sector. I call mainly on colleagues from GERB, who have experienced some hesitation in the Energy Committee, to reconsider their position because the text that we and my colleague Siddy proposed for a new para. 22a, by which we want the licence holders to declare the intention of selling, is actually complementary to this basic text. The idea of this text is that in one year it is clear that when a company sells over 20 percent of its capital, they cannot break them, for example, four by five and circumvent the ban on the law. In this sense, the two texts of art. 22a and 23a are part of a complex of measures which I think we all owe to the Bulgarian citizens so that we do not become aginci.................. our energy. I rely on your wisdom, I count on you to vote, as you voted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Veselinov, one clarification: You want a separate vote on the text of art. 23a?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u127	Okay, I'm going to put it to a vote and then we're going to vote separately on the text presented to us. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, our proposal is not against the law, and your proposal, Mr. Veselinov, is unconstitutional. In Bulgaria there is a level playing field between private, state and municipal property. When there are relationships between two private entities, there is no way other entities can interfere, all the more so as you want this thing to happen retroactively. Why? Because if right now, colleagues, this thing happens, if you do that, if CEZ claims are now worth 630 million, you're going to put another 630 million away and the state has to take out of its pocket and pay the bill. We have no public interest at all. I believe that in that euphoria GERB had gone astray. I think they subsequently agreed and entered into the regulations and regulations of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why we have proposed it, and you are afraid to oppose GERB does not mean that we are going against the state. So much for this text. Colleagues, I would ask you at least today to be at the level of the National Assembly, because the shame we take in adopting certain bills is large enough. I will speak, Mr. Chairman, and on the proposals of Mr. Delyan Dobrev, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules, which gives such an opportunity. Such an opportunity is given, but such a serious proposal to be tabled and dealt with in the Commission in the last five minutes and to be accepted with the clear awareness that it is not a working text is not a text which governs the relationship between producers and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but only because we will please some businessmen who have recently taken up the positions of a minister in this country. The lines I heard earlier that with this text we are almost against because they correct the relationship of TPP "Bobov dol" - TPP "Varna" - that is not the case, colleagues. What is proposed here is against the interests of the production of TPP 2.. the state production of TPP 2. TPP 2 wants BGN 98. The price of electricity and here we offer them the market price to be plus 10%. The market price is BGN 70. and 10% is BGN 77. With £77. TPP 2 how will it work? Did you go to see the mine in what state it was in? Not a clue. The miners are in front of the Ministry of Energy, although they should be in front of the Council of Ministers. With the adoption of this law, they will also come to the National Assembly. It is not the National Assembly's job to write figures and determine whether it will raise the price by 10%, or by 10% will reduce the price of electricity, but the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory is an independent committee. Mr. Chairman, that's why I'm proposing an amendment. Yes, there is a trial, in the Law it says that the Commission must accept the proposals of all producers in order to include them in the mix, but we can with a more leaky text oblige the institution, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to deal with this process and not the National Assembly. I propose that the text acquires the following form:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 93a. 94. In this way, colleagues, we can now really stand as MPs and say that we have passed a working Law and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to take the relevant decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u130	Mr. Atalay, the only non-constitutional thing that has existed for 30 years in Bulgaria is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It's a public fact. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] An ethnic party that uses every excuse to destroy statehood. That's the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u131	Mr. Vesselinoff, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u132	This amendment of yours is against the interests of the state. She wants to hide once again from enlightening certain economic processes. But as it is known, the DPS is the master of dark schemes. That is why my appeal is again to the other MPs: let us ensure the transparency we owe to the Bulgarian citizens regarding the claims that ownership is inviolable. This property in this law is special and, accordingly, the Law has created a special status not only for shares and shares, but also for ownership as material, as parts of networks, from energy infrastructure to which the KEWRC can effectively prohibit alienation, it can introduce a company itself as a responsible manager. That is, you are trying to mislead the MPs that our proposal sets a precedent. No, it does not set a precedent but expands the Institute so as to achieve a guarantee not only in the expropriation of part of the asset of an undertaking or only of the assets of the undertaking, but also of the shares and shares which constitute a kind of abstract property. In this regard, I do not know who might have anything against the state seeing what is happening in energy. The current case: for four months we have been in a scandal that is unattractive, and everyone is pouring some accusations about something and we are making parliamentary committees just won't exist. I don't know, do you eat from scandals and wish there to be constant scandals in this country? [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay. [[Replications outside the microphones between President Emil Hristov and the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Ramadan Atalay.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u134	First, procedure. Colleagues, let's extend the time to vote on this paragraph. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u135	Answer the backdrop, Mr. Atalay, and then we'll do the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u136	My hole is this. Mr. Veselinov, I have just said Mr. I mean, I'm going to buy you a shirt of this money you see there's a lot in the DPS. Your arguments are based solely on the fact that there is a MP from the DPS telling you these truths. You don't have any other argument. I'd like to ask the National Assembly a question. The Minister of Finance is of the same opinion: is he also from the DPS? In the same opinion is every reasonable person who sees how and how that basic law has been arranged, in which we have made all the rules since 2003.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u137	Mr. Atalay, please, we're gonna miss the time to vote on the extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u138	Thank you. Let us vote: it is my procedure to extend the time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u139	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the working time until the procedure of voting on a text. They voted 125 MPs: 85, against 31, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. We continue with speeches. People's representative Delyan Dobrev come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u140	Mr. Chairman, I am giving up the opportunity to speak so that we can move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u141	I thought you had a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u142	If you insist, I'll speak. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u143	No, I gave you the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] You'll have your say, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u144	Honourable Members, regarding the ten per cent question is that of household subscribers, the regulated market, cannot include more expensive plants and more than 10% of the market price, protects the public interest in my opinion. He's not protecting business. This text doesn't concern business. They are not concerned because they are on the free market, on the free market, where they buy their electricity. Why do we have to allow this text to come out, why should we allow the regulator for the domestic market, for the domestic subscribers, for the regulated market to include plants and to set by dozens of percent higher than the market price for people who are largely energy poor? According to the World Bank, if I'm not mistaken, about 70% of the people... Madam Secretary, is that all? Yeah? [[Reply from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova away from the microphones.]] Ah, 30% of the people I apologize, the opposite is, 30% of the people are energy poor. So we will tell the energy poor: you will pay the expensive plants, and the free market will pay at the market price. What Mr. Atalay proposes, I also do not accept it, because it is essentially an existing text in the Energy Act. The regulator has the right now to decide which plants to include or not. This is what you suggest we do a methodology to decide with. And that is exactly the problem, because because the regulator had the right to decide, he said: One instance said: "Yes, the regulator is right, why will the people, 30% of whom are energy poor, pay more than actually cost on the free market this electricity? " However, the other authority has said, and the Supreme Court has said: "Because this text is unclear in the Energy Act, it gives the regulator freedom to determine whether to include them or not, under some own rules, methodology and so on, it seems to us that the court may think that discrimination might be included, others not included and subjective decision by the regulator. That is why we want to register in the Law: The Bits subscribers in Bulgaria, 30% of which are energy poor, and the small companies, of course, for which this regulated market is defined, which after the changes in this law will shrink to about 30%, we want to clearly write in the Law that it will not pay more than 10% higher price than the market price. Yes, the regulator can consider including a plant that is up to 10% at a higher price than the market, but only up to 10%. And not on the market to be 700 leva, to show up a manufacturer with 1000 leva. a price, and the regulator must accept this 15 times, for example, a higher price, because the text in the Law is unclear. From this point of view, I maintain my proposal for the adoption of the proposal given by me in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2. This version is also accepted by the regulator because his opinion is that he will thus manage to balance the interests of society. Otherwise, if this text is not adopted or an amendment to this text is adopted, then the regulator will have to comply with the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and include all producers no matter who is at what price, who wanted to sell electricity to the population in Bulgaria. Because again, the regulated market is for the population. That is, the SAS said:........................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u145	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dobrev, I thought at least you weren't a populist, but listening to you, I feel like you're coming from the left side of parliament. I stated precisely and clearly: TPP 2 They want to get into the mix, BGN 70. is the market price, 10% above is BGN 77. Are you going to get TPP 2 to withdraw now the 98 leva? and will it be interfering with the work of the enterprise? Would they want less than £77?? Will the miners come and ask for the people too? Don't denigrate us so that I almost want to include the highest prices and people to lose weight because they are poor. People get tired because you don't create jobs for them. People get tired because foreign investors leave Bulgaria from your management. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] People get tired because you pass such laws without the corresponding financial and economic analysis. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's not go into reality that you don't want to hear because I'm hearing it, but it is. Well, let's see what we do now. The law, Mr. Dobrev, at the moment, as I recall, says that the KEWRC has an obligation to include in the mix every producer. With this text we do not give an obligation to the KEWRC to include anyone who has decided to give some price, but we give him a methodology based on this methodology to say who are the producers who can enter, setting the lowest price that they have given as a request to be included in the price of the mix and to receive the population. Don't fool people! You're a serious man. I respect you. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u147	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u148	Mr. Atalay, I wasn't talking about power plants. Which power plant can give a price up to 10% higher than the market, the law does not prevent it from turning on and providing energy, the regulator setting a quota for it. I'm talking about a principle. If TPP 2 is 98 BGN. and they can't sell at BGN 77, why should people pay them BGN 98 when the current is BGN 70 on the market?! If on the market the current is 70 BGN, why should someone pay, and then people, ordinary people, 30% energy poor, have to pay 100 BGN, or 150 BGN, or 200 BGN. And as much as it is?! Now we say up to 10%. You're wrong here, too. The law doesn't oblige the regulator. The court obliged it, because the Law says: "The regulator can judge. " - Only that the court says: "How will the regulator judge judge? Once the legislator has given such an opportunity, then we must all participate. That's it, without talking about power plants, without talking specifically about TPP 2 or any other power plant. To give a price that is up to 10% higher than the market, the regulator will be obliged to include them in the quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A statement request please, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return the debate to the other law because there was another law, and it was justified here at first reading only a week ago with a few words. One was: The Energy Act does not allow the regulator to intervene effectively on the occasion of the specific deal to acquire CEZ by the candidate buyer Inercom. With these arguments, the importers from "United Patriarchs" came and explained that if we did this amendment, then the regulator would be able by the time of the gyrosing, I think it was the exact words of Mr. Veselinov, to intervene and to check whether the candidate of CEZ would be able to fulfil his claim obligations. That's pretty much what I was talking about. And this was voted by a large majority. We cannot be angry with the MPs of the DPS today, who said that for them this does not correspond to different principles and performances. But all the other members of the parliament, GERB, BSP and Volja, if I am not mistaken, voted unanimously on this text for this to enable the regulator to check the deal with CEZ. It was so simple! All of a sudden, the exact moment that allows a check to be carried out along this line is out. There's one half of the information that doesn't make sense what he's going to do. Some say to the regulator that, you see, there's some plan to sell. We mentioned the regulations. One of the criticisms of this text is that at the moment, you see, they do not comply with basic regulations. If we read the Energy Act as KEWRC reads it, and not from now, but from a few years back, including for other acquisitions, we come to the absolutely absurd statement that, see, if you have to sell a Trafopost, you have to ask permission from KEWRC on the basis of the relevant item. Art. 23, art. 53, which requires authorisation from the Commission in order to dispose of property with which licensing is carried out. So, for a piece of cable, for a trap post, for anything on CEZ, CEZ has to ask permission of the regulator, but for the whole CEZ at once no. This statement alone can be challenged, but in order not to engage in disputes, we have decided to do what they want us to do. And now he's suddenly falling. And here we have to ask ourselves the question: what does it really fall? The obstacle falls, the check in front of the deal concerned, the last authority that could possibly intervene. There's a committee of inquiry right now and checks are running. One of the objectives of the checks is to check the sources of the funds that will be used to acquire this thing. Suppose it turns out these sources aren't very clean. And what does the state do? He raises his shoulders and says, "Important deals." The regulator does not have these powers. " Well, here is the possibility for the regulator to give the powers. And here the question, ladies and gentlemen, is entirely in the field of GERB. BSP gave and confirmed its support to empower the regulator to intervene. The Patriots maintain their proposal, as far as I understand from them, although the report describes that they have been withdrawn by the importer. Speculate this with the importers. REPORTER DELIAN GOODV: Another part has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u151	Therefore, whether the KEWRC will be able to verify the deal "Inercom" "CEZ," and whether it is possible to implement its licensing regime or not, will depend, ladies and gentlemen, on the upcoming vote and the decision of GERB party. That is the responsibility we face. I hope we're aware of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u152	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Zarkov! I'm taking the floor so there won't be any misunderstanding. We have withdrawn texts under art. 22a, which are secondary and auxiliary, let's put it this way. Our main text, which is the text of the importer and was in the main block of the Law, was neither withdrawn nor we would have had the right to withdraw it because it had passed at first reading. It has no right to be rejected as a whole with this bill, I say again "the two texts by the Commission because it simply does not have such a right. The rules in this regard are categorical. In this regard, the United Patriarchs stand behind the texts in general and strongly insist that all MPs support them in this part of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zarkov, I think you're a lawyer and you understand what you're saying here. You know why electricity distribution companies, when they sell a trappost or a car, ask permission from the KEWRC. I think you understand, I don't have to explain it to you. Only here you're speaking in the opposite direction. This is about the sale of shares, and there as a legislator in 2003 we have laid down rules that when the time comes, and that means when the deal is over, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission under the Constitution, according to the laws of the state, will intervene and tell you what will happen to the deal, whether it will be the Inercom or whoever. And I ask you the question: when E.ON was selling, where were you then? I ask you: why, when E.ON sold out two years ago, not one came out to say why E.ON sold out its shares and why is Energo Pros now the owner of these shares? You didn't have a reaction back then! You thought you'd taken the thin position of the government and knock them down in one swoop! But maybe you should have waited a little longer! I don't know how much! They're shaking! There's a lot of things that are rocking. Mr. Veselinov, your bill, I understand you are now trying to pass...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u156	Who are you making the line of Veselinov or Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u157	On your bill two of the points have been passed, the entire bill has not been rejected! [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u158	Turn to Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u159	Who's he making the line to?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u160	Turn to Mr. Zarkov, you make a line on him, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u161	Okay. Mr. Zarkov, I think you understand. And to you, Mr. Veselinov is wrong, Mr. Zarkov! [[Laughter]] He's clean and he just wants to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u162	Mr. Atalay, you're already out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u163	...successed those ideas of yours that you wanted from here to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u164	You're out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u165	Now to Mr. Zarkov, I'm talking to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u166	But you're out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u167	Please, guys! It would be funny if it wasn't serious! Let's get on with it and pass the Law as it has to go to be serious people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u168	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there a third line? Here you are, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, Mr. Zarkov! I would like to say that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is mainly conducted under the Energy Act. It's not under the Money Laundering Act and so on, whatever functions at some point you can tell him. That is, if there are any doubts about the money it will be financed with, the KEWRC must rule. He's got institutions, he's got a law on money laundering. Any institution relevant to this law can intervene without any problem when there are doubts about money. In the end, the services will check that once the deal is done and eventually the shares will be transferred. I think that this text gives KEWRC sufficient opportunity, it is in its function to monitor and regulate the activity carried out by the transmission company, it is in this activity that it can assess whether it can perform its functions or cannot perform them. Once we have created this text, that is, they will already have the opportunity to know the intentions and check the factual situation, to assess whether to appoint a special manager and to implement what has already been entered into the Energy Act. If it has to be perfected, it will be perfected. But right now they don't officially know if it's going to sell, if this deal is going to happen. With this text, which the Patriots have proposed and is, in fact, currently subject to the modification, I think we are giving enough power to the KEWRC to already have the knowledge of this and they will be able to assess whether they will be able to fulfil this condition. They can call the firm, like we called it to the Commission, to tell them their business plans, to say if they'll leave management, wouldn't they? I mean, I think this text is doing the job we wanted. We cannot assign to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission functions that are not at all at the heart of what it was created for. So I think this text is very good and we need to support it. We do not want to hide anything at all or restrict the power of the Commission for energy and water regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u170	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, to Mr. Honest Vesselinoff. Thank you for that line. She showed that you hold for your proposal and whether it will be accepted or not depends on GERB at the moment. This is important to know, as the proposal itself is important. Mr. Atalay, why hasn't anyone reacted during a previous transformation? The first answer could be because the company that bought that energy distribution company was not made yesterday; because the company has great revolutions and traditions in the relevant activity; because the Minister of Energy did not resign on the day it was understood; because the chief of the Energy Commission did not say it seemed false news and because it did not become clear at least three government confusions regarding this deal. That's one part of the answer. The other part of the answer is more general. I believe that even then a check had to be made to see if this undertaking could fulfil its licensing obligations. I also believe that the Energy Act and, as it is, provides some opportunities. But we don't have to get into this argument. I would not allow myself here to convince you, rather I would refer to an undisputed authority, such as Professor Valeri Dimitrov, who understands from this thing, who is a member of the Advisory Council on Law, who expressed a public amazement by the lack of such regulations in the Law and sent to all parliamentary groups his reasoning, which we have come to know and which, I think, were even at the heart of the initiative of the United Patriarchs. So, according to him, he explains that a licensing regime, which has no way of prior verification, is in itself absurd, and you don't have to be a lawyer or a lawyer to understand that it's completely illogical to demand from some licensed enterprise that you regulate, an investment plan for example, for 5 years ahead, to which you set prices and make different prices if he just decides at any time that he is tired of selling and selling. That doesn't fit into legal, but in life and normal logic. Finally, Mr. Nikolov, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is not an indisputable organization that can monitor money laundering and so on. But it is with this law and with the following provisions that we give power to the KEWRC, for which many special services would envy. These are things we are about to discuss. Why? To check whether the really investment programs we are talking about and their licencers are doing practically the work; whether when he explained that he had made such a repair, he was made, and various, perhaps more complex things, excuse me if I simplify. Why, tell me, for what reason, since this is in the Financial Supervision Commission, in BNB, in other regulators, when there is a demand of the state company to sell to another private company, this private company should not be checked on certain clear criteria for one simple thing: will it be able to comply with the investment programme approved for years to come, for example, 2023? Can it meet certain criteria that we can define?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u172	Mr. Zarkov, you're way out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u173	I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u174	I left you to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u175	I conclude with this: the deal "CEZ" "Inercom" has to be checked, it needs to be checked by the regulator, and I ask you to reconsider the decision and give it the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u176	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start from where my colleague Krum Zarkov graduated with a quote, if I may, from 2 March 2018. The drama that has been played is the result of the failure in the Energy Act. It's a failed law with huge defects. It's about the existing law so far. The Authority has not implemented the own contribution regime, respectively the KEWRC is a toothless regulator that cannot control the shareholders of the ERPs. The KEWRC has no supervisory and authorization authority that BNB and the Financial Supervision Commission have, and this is the huge problem. That's why it's a toothless regulator. The law does not introduce this authorisation regime and this is a regulatory failure. The result of this is that now the state has to buy or not share in order to control things or take other actions. Dear colleagues, this is really Professor Valeri Dimitrov, member of the Advisory Council on National Assembly legislation. My speech is in favour of the proposal of colleagues Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy, including in their part to vote separately on the proposal under art. 23. Because the merger's a little blurry about the real picture of things. And I want to tell you this. I want to distract two myths. The first myth is that you and I here have nothing in common in this matter. The problem, however, is that the breaches that exist in the existing law allow strategic undertakings which are privately owned to be resold without any guarantees for the protection of the public consumer where there is a great public interest. And that's a fact that you and I have to face. We see in the proposal of our colleagues from the United Patriarchs that this is the opportunity. You're gonna say, "What's the drama?" Drama, honourable colleagues, is a woman from Pazardzhik to become a spokesperson for the Bulgarian Prime Minister on energy issues. The drama is to wake up with the fact that the state should participate or the state should not participate in the evening, not knowing which document has sent and what we have classified in the Secret Office of the National Assembly. This is the withdrawal of the state. That is why we have regard to this matter with you! Something else I'd like to say and continue the thought of colleague Zarkov. The Energy Act of the existing, you know, in art. 21 and currently gives regulatory and supervisory powers to the KEWRC. It is extremely strange, however, honourable Members, that the KEWRC has a licensing power within the meaning of the current law, but does not have the power to authorise, respectively, prior approval of transactions in shares and shares. This directly negates the function of the KEWRC. It becomes a meaningless organ. The example that my colleague Zarkov gave with BNB and with the Financial Supervision Commission is that not only in licensing but also in the sale of shares and shares, if they are not publicly announced and declared there, they are illegal. That is why, by analogue, colleagues, because in this context of regulation are pension, insurance, banking, financial companies, precisely because this is a serious public interest, we will support the proposal of the Members of Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy. I have two words to finish with my colleagues from the DPS. I respect your liberal point of view, liberal position and, in a sense, so admire your idea sequence. However, Mr. Atalay, I will remind you of other events since 2003, which for me was the wreath of liberal governance in Bulgaria through the Coalition of NDSV and DPS I say it without irony. I would like to remind you of the five conditions when you then set a bet for this sector. I've said them here, I'll allow myself to tell you again: 700 million. EUR, proven capital of the future owner in financial statements; not less than 7 thousand. Gigawatt hour turnover through own networks; at least one European country to have as an operator in its asset; three times the B+'s credit rating and the fifth, which was valid in 2011. An absolute ban on the distribution of offshore companies and related capital with offshore companies. How come, dear Mr. Atalay, with such a good liberal framework, we won't be consistent? And, colleagues from GERB, I will ask you: if this thing goes through, my opinion is as follows: that the spring of the parallel state and of the slicks is coming. Keep in mind that after the spring of the wise men comes the winter of discontent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u179	Mr. Kostadinov, colleagues from BSP! With such statements you are actually misleading the House because this text of art. 23a doesn't concern CEZ. There, the deal was concluded, as we understand it, December last year. This text is valid from now on if the "Energo-Pro" decides to sell. That's the truth. You are deluding the hall and are trying almost to say: "Here's something GERB has that they do not want to tell us." Quite the opposite. You saw, you proposed a committee to investigate the CEZ deal, and we supported it unanimously. GERB supported your proposal. This is not all we have given you as chairman of this committee. This is not the only thing we are constantly participating in this committee, supporting your efforts and helping you in its work. We vote unanimously with you because there is nothing to hide. The texts in question for art. 23a have no retroactive power. They will not act for transactions concluded last November, but will act for transactions concluded next November. We are also talking here about philosophy of proposals. There are similar texts in the BNB Act and in the Financial Supervision Commission Act. However, what is the difference between the ERP and banks or pension funds? The difference is that in banks and pension funds Bulgarian citizens have savings. Those institutions hold the money of the Bulgarian citizens, while in the case of the ERPs, or any other enterprise in the energy sector, it simply provides a service, does not hold the savings of the Bulgarian citizens. And not only does it provide a service, but it is highly regulated because the prices of this service are determined by the regulator. By the same logic as you went to art. 23a, in a few months you can also propose a change in the Food Act, for example, where for every bakery in Bulgaria there should be pronounced some body in the country, because food is also very important. Not just bread, maybe other products. So we're talking philosophy here. It's not about CEZ, because CEZ has a deal. It's about the future. The ERPs provide a service, do not store the money to the Bulgarian citizens in order to apply such text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u180	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Another line? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kostadinov, I have been listening very carefully to you since the beginning of the situation that was created in the energy sector. You're getting serious, but I couldn't agree with the quotes you made. Of course, every person has a right to develop. Prof. Dimitrov was in this National Assembly, he was Chairman of the Economic Commission, in the same period he was a member of the Legal Commission when we created the Privatization Strategy. He was an active participant at the time, but I would ask you not to mix sale with privatisation. The privatisation strategy, which was established together with the World Bank, had a number of rules and requirements that proved to be correct. But subsequently, the current sale or subsequent sales that will occur with the electricity distribution companies, you derive from the assumption that almost electricity distribution companies are such undertakings that without them or with them it is now over with energy. Colleagues, from 100 BGN, who collect electricity distributions, 93 BGN. go to the manufacturer, 5 for ESO, and only 7 BGN. remain in the electricity distribution companies. Nothing else! It's a mailbox. Moreover, all the investments made by these people are regulated by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Their control is also carried out by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. What's this crying about I can't understand?! Why don't we leave it alone, guys? [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Sit down and read this Energy Act at last, to see that the rules have been created...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u182	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u183	...so good that you'll be surprised once you understand them. But apparently you'll find it hard to understand them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u184	Thank you. Mr. Nikolov, third line. [[Noise and lines from OP. A line from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] No requirements. For the speeches are in the Rules. If Mr. Nikolov, after being recorded, I'm sorry, I didn't see it, you gave the order. Thank you, Mr. Nikolov, for the gentlemanly gesture. The third line by the United Patriarchs is Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u185	Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I take the floor to complete your speech, because perhaps because of the time limit it was not complete. If the text of art. 23a is accepted, he will surely have an attitude and under his control will pass the deal on CEZ. That's definite! This is because the transaction may have been concluded, i.e. a contract may have been concluded, but the actual composition of the transfer of the shareholding of the shareholder in the case has not been completed. In fact, it is precisely this transfer that the ownership of the shares or shares is under control. In this spirit, by adopting this text now, we will oblige both the seller and the buyer to refer to the KEWRC and, accordingly, to pass this check, which you quite rightly mentioned, that it needs to be carried out. That was my addition to your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u186	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! With some of the things mentioned in Mr. Dobrev's reply, I agree, but I would be much more satisfied and happy if they stand on their position from the vote of the first vote because, as Mr. Veselinov told you, in my opinion the deal is not finalized, there will be no retroactive action of the Law and in this sense it can be applied before the finalization within the nine months. I have too much respect for you to say this as a line, but the example of bread, bakery and pancakes is irrelevant, Mr. Dobrev, one third of the Bulgarian state and a natural monopoly. Because in my opinion, the experience with Inercom is the first swallow, the first bird to show what we will do with the concessions of the water companies, how far we will get in harm's way to the public interest. What Mr. Atalay said was that it was a normal exercise for a normal business or a mailbox, for God's sake, any such mailbox for nearly 2.5 billion. lv. a year's financial flow. So this line is not accepted, it is untenable. Again, the withdrawal of the state from the protection of public interest and the non-imposing of the requirements of course that I distinguish between privatization and another trade deal will lead the public interest to the edge of a huge gap. We, by the way, have already brought him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Angelov, you have a stated statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think today is important for understanding who is actually behind such dark, scandalous deals in the Bulgarian economy and in Bulgarian energy. And that's clear to everyone. DPS boycotted our proposals [[DRF lines]] because they gave the Bulgarian state the opportunity to protect the national interest of the Bulgarian state in the energy sector. DPS, of course, have always been against the national interests of Bulgaria. Of course they'll be against it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] But it is interesting for us to understand why other political parties were influenced by the opinion of the DPS? Why for a short time turned things around, including, as far as I know, our proposals have a positive opinion from the Ministry of Energy, including were voted at first reading by GERB. For me it is interesting who is GERB's partner at the moment [[Applause from the OP. Noise and lines from DPS.]] If you want the DPS, here they are, haalal. In the end, politics must have morals, responsibility, and a person to keep his honor and his word. [[Noise and lines.]] Things that we have suggested that guarantee public and national interest can be boycotted just like that behind our backs. The DPS is clear on what they are. But what GERB will do, and I see that those who have the will of Voljja. They snuck out, too. Let the Bulgarian citizens make it clear today who will support the behind-the-scenes in such transactions. Because the first vote also supported our proposals. A little while ago, before the voting time came, they got away because they had the will. Colleagues from BSP, thank you for supporting our proposals. You have repeatedly supported our proposals over the last three or four years, but you miss the MPs in this House in general to pass. It was the same when you pretended to support us last year for the budget. When the minimum pension had to be increased by 300 BGN, only twenty-several MPs from BSP were helpful, although they supported us. You're 15 people now. How does this offer of ours, if you want to support it, go with 15 people from BSP? [[Applause from OP.]] Because it's very nice to be a populist. It's very nice to say nice words. To say: the proposal is wonderful, we will support it. And where are you to support him? Where will you come from? Enough with the games! If you're gonna be men in politics, be all men. If we're gonna play backstage, we can play backstage, believe me. [[Applause from the OP. Revelations: "Bravo!" by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u190	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u191	Dear Mr. President, I did not expect this paragraph to cause such violent debates, and at the same time there are committees that are launching. I suggest we calm our passions, delay the debate for tomorrow. [[Heckling]] Do not stop, we postpone the point of view tomorrow this paragraph in peace, without being worried about the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u192	A reverse opinion? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Just a reverse opinion. It's a procedural proposal. I understand you, and we'll continue tomorrow from where we're going to end today. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov, and we're done. You have a line to Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u193	I have a line to Mr. Angelov and in this regard because things are going the way they are, let's finish our speech procedure. We'll continue tomorrow morning, I have a statement with you. I don't want to do this right away, so let's do this thing tomorrow. Mr. Angelov, we voted against continuing the time until this point was completed so that we could be on the line tomorrow. When we make speeches, let us make them prepared. Let's not make them for the cameras, because they're not here right now. Let's try to be constructive in our speeches, because otherwise we create an impression of hysterics, but not of reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Line, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Angelov, I think we are looking at a proposal for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act, not whether the DPS is a coalition partner with GERB or not. If you are looking for this answer and will satisfy you, Mr. Angelov, DPS we are not a coalition partner of GERB. You are GERB's coalition partner and you lead them to that abyss where they cannot understand where they are going. [[Noise and lines from OP. Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by DPS.]] Mr. Angelov, in energy emotion, hatred, appearing from this platform, thinking that by spitting on the DPS you will pass a proposal that is unconstitutional, you will pass a proposal that is against any European requirements, you will support the visit of your leader in Crimea...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u196	Mr. Atalay, please, the line to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u197	...you'll do whatever it takes to establish yourself politically, it won't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u198	Please, the line to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u199	Not gonna happen, guys. Let's get back to energy. [[Noise and lines.]] We are not partners of GERB, but we will not be partners with you ever! [[Noise and lines from OP. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u200	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Do you have a hole? With the back, we close the debate and move on to the vote on a procedural proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] There are two lines, a third line, but it was stated by you. [[Reply from MP Halil Letifov.]] Here's a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] The word in the manner of conduct as a procedure is given immediately. We'll wait with your line. I'll give it to you, Mr. Popov. You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct is with you. You interrupted Mr. Atalay while making your line, and you take note of how much it is and how much it is not. Your coalition partners, starting with Mr. Veselinov and passing through Mr. Angelov, were not on the topic from their first statement to insinuate and insinuate any imaginary ones of theirs, and to speak against the DPS. This was all the policy they have been making since the campaign until now and, as Mr Atalay said, to ruin all the authority of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, take your part, keep your coalition partner safe and don't take the floor away from the MPs. [[Applause from the DPS. Noise and lines from OP.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u202	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Third line please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, a very brief line. Dear Mr. Angelov, tomorrow we will be here the whole group and will support this proposal, as we have repeatedly stated, but when it does not pass because of your coalition partner, then I do not ask you what you will do and what action you will take?! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u204	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u205	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Popov, first of all, if we give explanations to someone, we will give them to our voters, not to BSP in general, right? We don't owe it to you to at least explain anything. So if there's anything we need to explain, we'll explain it to the people who voted for us and not BSP. Mr. Ermenkov, I may have spoken hysterically and in any other way, as you wish to say it, but I have spoken the truth. No matter how I said it, I told the truth, I didn't lie. Because you can make a reference and take out the votes, see, and you'll find out what's true. More importantly, it was really BSP to be the majority of the group here, because the vote could be now, couldn't it? It could have been now, and it couldn't have gone away! [[Noise and lines.]] On the occasion of the lines that are made by the DPS, how can in a statement that concerns energy for example, and we see what the DPS offers, and what interests it stands for and defends, let us not say what we think. It may be a more political statement. This is the fact, because you have always supported things that we think are against the national interests of the state, and should I keep that from you by not liking it in any way? So we have the right to tell the truth and even to make political statements from this tribune, and that is the right of every MP. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u206	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev to end the debate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u207	It's not a suspension, it's a continuance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-25.u208	No, there was a suspension... [[Noise and lines:? Postponement, delay!?]] Latency thanks for your help. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 109, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next regular plenary session shall be on 26 April 2018 at 9.00, according to the adopted programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
