ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Procedure and then another procedure. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I propose that the points of today's agenda.. first and second, be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. I hope that my colleagues in the ruling majority have nothing to be ashamed of and what to hide, so let them support this proposal of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for a direct broadcast of item one and second of today's agenda. Vote 159 MPs: 76 against 28, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, for a second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote the adopted yesterday, 22 February 2018, Draft Decision No 854-02-11 on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the additional expenditure/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 10 May 2017 to 31 January 2018, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 February 2018. The re-vote is required due to a manifest technical error, a discrepancy between the name of the decision and its operative, namely the starting date of the verification period. Instead of the correct date in the title. "1 January I therefore ask you to reschedule the title of the Decision, namely: A decision to award to the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the compliance of the additional costs/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018. Madam President, please put the proposed text to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm voting on Mr. Ivanov's motion to re-vote. Vote 162 MPs: 157 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE DEFINITION OF THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED OWNITY. Importers: MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018. Welcome to the report, Mr. Kirilov, to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hristian Radev Mitev on 19 February 2018. At its meeting held on 21 February 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Christian Radev Mitev on 19 February 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. Mr. Plamen Georgiev Chairman; by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Blagoy Stanchev. The bill was presented by Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that after the entry into force of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property new requirements for municipal councillors related to the institute of incompatibility were provided. As a consequence of the changes, municipal councillors may not be sole traders, partners, shareholders, members of management, supervisory or control boards of commercial companies which have concluded contracts with the municipality in which they are municipal councilors, as well as with commercial companies with municipal participation and with municipal enterprises. The Bill aims to ensure a sufficient period of time for municipal councillors to comply with the newly introduced requirements of their elected office. Mr. Plamen Georgiev and Mr. Blagoy Stanchev expressed their support for the bill. Members of the National Assembly Yavor Bojankov, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. Mr. Popov and Mr. Bojankov expressed their negative views on the bill and said they would not support it. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, 6 votes against the House, No 854-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hristian Radev Mitev on 19 February 2018....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Now another report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u8	♪ I can't believe on a bill to supplement the Anti-Corruption Act and to withdraw illegally acquired property No 854-01-9, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev At a regular meeting held on 22 February 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-9, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018. Representatives of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Christian Mitev. It is proposed by the Bill to postpone the operation of the provision of § 19, t. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law for the next term of the municipal councils. With the visated norm was made an amendment of art. 34, para. 5 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, e.g. 3 of the same provides that the municipal councillor cannot be a sole trader, partner, shareholder, member of a management, supervisory or control board of a commercial company which has concluded contracts with the municipality in which he is a municipal councillor, as well as with commercial companies with municipal participation or with municipal enterprises. These restrictions create problems in practice because when the changes enter into force, a small part of the municipal councillors, on different legal grounds and in different quality, appear in contractual relations with the municipality. This requires delaying the norm, and in the next local elections candidates for municipal councillors will be aware of the restrictions and will be able to make an assessment and choose whether to run or maintain their contractual relations with the municipality. During the discussion, representatives of municipalities supported the proposed change. The MPs expressed different positions for both the proposed change and the proposed change, and those who disagreed with the proposal were motivated by the need for other changes that will have to be made in the Law. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 12 votes.......................................................... and 6 votes against...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Can you introduce us to an importer's motives, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, will you present them to us?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In short, I will present the reasons for the submitted bill. The point is that in terms of the status of municipal councillors, we have provided new radicals, on heavy requirements for their status, and related to incompatibility. This happened during the third year of their term of office, when they had already met once the requirements for taking up the post, for which they have declared the proper circumstances and as candidates for municipal councillors, and immediately after their election, and before taking an oath. There was a reaction from all municipal councillors, regardless of their political affiliation. It is obvious that the time to bring the municipal councillors their status to these requirements will require a certain period of time. At the same time, we discussed a letter with questions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the main one was related to this: is it appropriate, during the current term, to set new stricter requirements regarding the status and position of municipal councilors? For this reason, also in today's day, and today's day is February 23, which, in the strictest interpretation of the Law, actually represents the last day of the one-month period in which municipal councillors would be obliged to submit a new declaration of incompatibility if we do not consider and accept this proposal. I will not go into details of the interpretations of the declarations requirements and of the authorities approving the declarations. We believe that the regime that we have provided here was in favour of the municipal councillors to have at least two alternative options with regard to the bodies to approve the model for these declarations. At the same time, I should also emphasise the opinion of the new Commission on overcoming corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, which remembers that, without regard to the procedure for approving the models of declarations and according to the caselaw, the lack of an approved model of those declarations does not exempt the persons obliged to declare those circumstances. We believe that with this bill, which we have proposed to your attention, we have tried, within the short term, which is for more than 6000 municipal councillors, to react adequately so as to propose that this requirement be postponed for at least the beginning of the next term, so that candidates can already know and be aware that there are new stricter requirements that they should comply with in the next electoral procedure. At the same time, I will allow myself to make a request for the following. This delay would enable us to specify the new requirements so that we can separate the cases in which we have domestic grounds for collision, that the municipal councillor, in one way or another, uses such property in one form or another, to say, as a doctor, tenant of a cabinet in a municipal medical establishment, and to separate those, conditionally speaking, domestic, natural, usual cases from those cases where there is indeed a corruption risk, where the relationship and the possibility of the municipal councillor having an impact on one or other decisions regarding the management and disposal of municipal property should be radically overcome. Therefore, colleagues, I appeal to all of you, not to politicise the debate, but to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I open the debate, I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're going to amend the Law of Law! The law that we discussed for six months should have been corrected before it even entered into force. We have warned repeatedly that this law is unthinkable, that it will cause more problems than it will solve. You have no right to say just like that. It will not work. This is the first time that it is clear that it will not work, that it is unthinkable. But if only that was it! Where is the Ministry of Justice at first? Why do MPs again clean up the mess created in this way? Why did we think that by changing a bunch of laws just like that, just to fill out a recommendation, we wouldn't do anything good? Where is the National Association of Municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria, which made a fuss, but after the Law was passed? Why didn't they express their opinion and concern when we discussed it? I have a possible answer. Because the clash was highly political, we had two different concepts of fighting corruption, and every single one of us who saw that we were making nonsense did not dare to announce themselves so that they would not be accused of supporting the opposition. No, sometimes the opposition says something, and it's just true, and it has to be supported because the consequences are very severe. What has become clear, though, since this debate was heated? He's coming to the gym now, but he's been on phone numbers for several months now, on the phone and on the towers of parliament. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u13	Mr. Zarkov, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats, let's keep it quiet in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u14	Madam President, precisely because we do not listen to each other, we correct the same laws every two weeks. But if the MPs here are not listening, be assured that they are listening to our citizens and the people who are interested in at least the 6,000 municipal councillors who risk, if they do not submit this declaration in time, being placed on a comprehensive due diligence for ten years back. That's what might happen to them. That wouldn't be bad in itself. Imagine that the newly established body, which already gives opinions, but has not yet been elected to it by the President and who is in a procedure for president, when 6,000 files for checking 6,000 people for the property in 10 years are arriving, this body will finish its work before it has started. Purely administrative, he won't be able to process this database. But what do we care if we sent the Law to Brussels and from now on to what we want?! A responsible factor in the National Association of Municipalities announced that day: if you do this, Bulgaria will remain without municipal councilors. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen of the House? Then let's ask ourselves, we've already opened the debate, who, how, and why does he become a city councilman? Is it true that if we ban the councillor from having a commercial relationship with the municipal council where he works, we will be left without municipal councillors? Do you understand what this means?! We therefore insist now and in the coming days to provide information about all municipal councillors in trade or other relations with the municipalities in which they work. Because it is a very good example, which is given in the motives and is very often quoted for the doctor who is a municipal councillor, and has a cabinet in the municipality, because in small towns there is nowhere else to have a cabinet. This example is true in many places, but 265 are these doctors. Every city council has one, they're 265 people, let's make an exception for them. Because I can think of other examples, not just the doctor who has an office in the municipality, but also the tenant who works municipal lands and is a municipal councillor. I can think of a security guard who owns private security companies, and he's a city councilman. I can think of dozens more cases. And faced with this problem, which, as you can see, is multi-layered, what do the importers suggest that we postpone it for two years?! Let's just postpone it for two years! We are not going to solve the problem, because the problem is in the non-fellar department.... excuse me for the expression of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. We won't solve the problem, but we'll postpone it for two years to see, see, to know the people who apply for councillors, what kind of fire they'll be cooked on. Only it's probably gonna happen something else. In these two years, the same municipal councillors who are now, and, you see, we're gonna lose, they're just gonna set up their jobs, they're gonna transfer their businesses, they're gonna sort things out, they're gonna be able to stay municipal councilors, and they're gonna keep their business with the municipalities. In a nutshell: hold on to corruption, GERB is kicking your ass! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, when here in this Chamber and in the Commission, both at first and second reading, we talked about the harmful effects this law would produce in practice, then no one called, on the contrary to those of the ruling majority, you see that BSP is not against corruption. Now it turns out, not a month after this law was passed, that we started with the patches of this law. They will not be the first or the last, for there are many internal contradictions in it. In it, the anti-corruption tools are practically minimized. This law can't technically even work in the parameters and within the time limits you set for it, the importers of this bill, and which you supported it. Now, with this amendment, you don't solve the problem in any way, you just delay it in time, sweep it under the carpet. Meanwhile, by 2019, there will be many more amendments to this law, because, as it is currently set out, it simply cannot happen, it cannot work. But when we talked about this law being lousy, then everyone including the Association of Municipalities didn't have any suggestions. It was all flowers and roses, and now suddenly it's a shock and a horror! Today the municipal councillors must submit the declaration provided for in this law. At the same time, the administration, the so-called Occupied Administration, has not yet been formed in practice, it has not yet really started working with all its structures. And now you are making these changes, and you are delaying the entry into force of this paragraph of the Law with regard to declarations. There will be many more changes and this law in practice, just a month after its adoption, proved its ineffelability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the question was repeatedly raised where were the municipal councillors and mayors, yesterday in the Commission I asked the Association of the National Association of Municipal Presidents: Why didn't you react? I do not know about Mr. Kirilov, but the Executive Director said that in the process of the debate the Legal Commission was informed and some of the importers shyly said that it was very difficult for everything that was not well proposed by the Ministry of Justice to be improved in the process of law-making itself. This two-year delay is not gonna solve anything. I believe that even if we start applying it as it is right now, there are long lists. It's not a coincidence there's two of them. We're just about to freshen up, rearrange the municipal councils, and we'll pull out those who are in conflict of interest if they decide not to be checked, resigned, and others will come. That is, for two years we will have had some councillors, and instead of those who are in a scornful relationship with the view of the ruling majority, may come new, it is not a problem. But here there is a new question in the Law on the rental relations of municipal councilors with the municipality. In the previous law there were members of boards of directors, of supervisory boards, controllers. In the previous law there was also a member for the incompatibility of the municipal councillor with other positions. The introduction of the rental relations and the noise that has been received, colleagues who have highlighted a vicious problem, which I am convinced that by 2019 or you will leave it so if the ruling majority is still in parliament, or it will have to seek a solution. Perhaps between first and second readings to propose to make a public register of all rental relations, which a public register to be seen through the President of the municipal council and in the body that will be set up perhaps within a week, so that the citizens may know the municipal councillors in what hired relations they are, to control them and to be able to form an attitude. For this reason, I believe that one option is to postpone the problem, but the problem will remain. The second question is to say: "Yes, we are now on the first step, and there will be more opportunities to work until we decide what we will really do with the rental relations. " We have many relationships that are related to doctors, dentists, land tenants, users of municipal forests. Especially in small settlements will be questioned by what status are the Chitalishtes and in the relations of these activists where are they, municipal hospitals with municipal participation? There is an opportunity through this law, just as it came out of the public debate, which was very dynamic, and perhaps I am glad that it was your municipal councillors who were very clear, as these authorities are now in your hands and you have rather a majority based on the choice you have, in this situation the problem of the conflict of interest issue will remain, it will be unresolved. We will only postpone it in time, but it means that we have highlighted a problem that we are now standing on, putting up with and waiting to see what will happen, and we do not want to solve it as legislator. If you want to solve it and you have willpower, give between first and second reading something to do. If you're going to sweep it, you're going to delay it in time and you're going to cover a problem that's quite reprehensible and that society will only hear. He knows it, but he won't see it, and it's better to brighten it up and show it. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, first line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't want to take a line and get into this debate and, respectively, extend it, because actually Mrs. Yankova spoke on topics and problems that were in my presentation of the Bill. However, I will point out the following. Dear Mrs. Yankova, this text was proposed in the earliest, in the first procedure, in the earliest texts of the bills for the creation of the new anti-corruption body. That's four bills ago, four years ago. And here I wonder where the National Association of Municipalities was. It is not true that we have such an opinion. All opinions are on the website of the National Assembly, you can find out for yourself. I mean, here's the thing. If there is a conflict of interest, you are referring to the old, under the repealed Law, this behavior was sanctioned and sanctioned on a complaint by any person concerned who received the legal protection. So my deep conviction is, especially in these collective, political bodies, if there have been such framing cases, they should already be considered, discussed, assessed by the former already invaded by the new single anti-corruption body, the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests (KPOSI). We can look at their decisions, they're public too. My appeal is for this. This is where we solve a matter for the deadline. Let's figure it out today. I promise and we are committed to our group within a month, not within a few days, to make a precise analysis of the possible criterion for differentiation and to undertake a separate legislative initiative on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u22	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Kirilov, there is no question that there was a Committee on Conflict of Interest on both members, and it was acting. Now we're talking about where the shoe kills the city councilmen about the rental relationship. That's where I say there's a problem. You know, I guess we'll be in a happy situation, waiting for you to make the next change. However, the problem is this. Yes, it is a pity that a law that was very highly advertised, which you enjoyed and clapped on, on the second, third week we made a change. Mr. Kirilov will make a change and within a month you will lead the dance, and we will have opportunities to tell you that in this situation laws are not made that way. The problem of hiring relationships, if you've decided that this is a conflict and it's reproaching, and you've been offering it, and if there's a noise down below, then there's a noise that you're going to be covering for two years now or we're going to wait for you to make a proposal. Don't worry, we'll let you make the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Next statement? Just a second, Mr. Bojankov, let me take a look at the other parliamentary groups, because I want to alternate the speeches. There's no statement. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! We've also started this debate with the law to give the law a chance. This is one of the few new texts in the Corps of the Law, which received its chance one month. We continue to hold on to our thesis that corruption is a systemic, deep-rooted problem and every interference causes a tremor in the foundation of the system. This is not about some technical amendment to the Law. This is about how the Bulgarian municipalities are managed and how the local authorities function and the answer gives it to the Bulgarian society, the media give it, unfortunately the foreign authorities are corrupt! If you think that someone demonizes the local authorities, if you think that someone goes too far with this statement, let me read you a few words spoken by the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria to the Legal Commission: We're going to an early election a year before the local elections. There was a lot of tension in a number of counselors. What apocalyptic picture, if these are isolated cases, if this is not practice, and this is not the principle on which local authorities function?! Why does the Anti-Corruption Authority itself state that it would be difficult to handle such a volume of work? And that's what we're going to tell the Bulgarians: we don't have the capacity to carry out the relevant checks. As lawyers we can speak eloquently and verbally, but let's put it bluntly and let's put it plainly.... what we do today is this, and the Bulgarians must understand it, and we are responsible to say it simply, and it can be said in one sentence: We give time to our political friends to bring our trusts in order and to continue in the same way.. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. The line, Mr. Hristov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, for the second time in this room I hear something that disturbs me very much because there are former mayors among us, there are former presidents of municipal councils, there are people who have worked in governing bodies at the Association of Municipalities. We cannot and should not be the one from here to generalize and say that if you see the government in the Bulgarian municipalities in general it was corrupt. No one denies that there are problems in the management of the Bulgarian municipalities, no one denies that there are problems, no one denies that in the municipal councils everything is not the cleanest, but we cannot speak from this tribune that only people who are corrupt work in municipal councils and who do nothing but enrich themselves. On the position of the National Association of Municipalities, which was made clear. They don't protect corruption. They protect the normal functioning of municipal councils. In the municipal councils there are not only representatives of GERB. It is not only representatives of the ruling party who are in some kind of relationship. You know perfectly well that in smaller municipalities mostly in relation to the municipality are municipal councilors from all parties. The position of the Association of Municipalities mostly reflected their concern about what could happen in municipal councils, what would have consequences. We are not opposed to the work of the municipal councils to continue by new rules, on the contrary. In the municipal councils and especially in their committees that work well, I mean the conflict of interest committees, very often there are clashes, very often there are disputes, but there are all united. Let us not give and not give food from this tribune for discussion on the topic of all are corrupt. Yes, there are problems, but there are many honest people in municipal councils who work well and work well together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u28	Dear Mr. Hristov, I made this statement on the basis of this statement, especially because of the findings of the Association of Municipalities. Maybe I was wrong, maybe I'm not that objective. Therefore, it is good to give, as colleagues say, a chance for the Law to work and prove that these are isolated cases. In fact, we will not go to new elections, the work of municipal councils will not be blocked, and there will not be 6000 declarations to enter and actually 6000 to have a problem. However, if we do the opposite and postpone the Law by two years, that is, until the next elections, this will be the signal that we will send to the Bulgarian society and we will confirm this doubt. So let's clean up the image of the local government and let the law work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, first of all, I would like to extend the time of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u31	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u32	Colleagues of Members, the conflict of interest in the state and municipal administration shall take place at the intersection between the public and private interests, namely where a public office holder has a private interest which may influence the impartial and objective performance of his powers and duties of service, as appears to be the case with the municipal councillors acting at the time. One month after the new bill, which was widely advertised, including by the importers of the current changes, was promulgated and has to come into effect, we are now being offered another change, and it is by the same people who have been zealously defending it and now even more zealously than the stands claim that mistakes will be corrected. Even then it was clear that it would not work and was not synchronized with the rest of our legislation. The correction will really strengthen the nepotism in the local authorities and confirms our thesis that there is a convergence between business and political power. BSP's warnings that the Anti-Corruption Act is full of shortcomings have proven themselves, but importers are in a hurry to make changes to sweep them under the carpet. The approach to declaring conflict of interest and administrative criminal liability should apply accordingly to persons who do not hold senior public positions is now causing quite serious problems, and by listening, especially in the ranks of importers. The problem is that it is necessary for all municipal councillors in the country in a short period of the promulgation of the Law to submit a declaration of incompatibility again, but already under the new conditions. That is, people who were chosen a year ago and more by other rules now have to declare again the existence of incompatibility. Municipal councillors are forbidden to be sole traders, partners, members of management and supervisory boards of companies having relations with municipalities, and the deadline proposed to postpone the operation of the Law is 1 December 2019. In this way, is not one tolerance given, one signal for possible plundering of municipalities and redistribution of the property of municipalities, with the deadline nailed on 1 December 2019? Many times in this room, laws have changed, and the scope of their action has been directed towards far more numerous groups of people. Even now, a bill is being discussed in the committees, which discusses a proposal to change the cash register, which will cover far more legal persons than those who are municipal councilors. I wonder if these people will be offered the same tolerance from time to time to introduce the new cash registers, for example, also from 1 December 2019? I don't understand why, once again, we are putting politicians at a better disadvantage? Are we creating a new, superior political caste to which we are assigned a priori? I also want to ask you something else: when will the next bill be to supplement and amend the Anti-Corruption Act so that we can still mentally prepare ourselves and the rest of society too? Mr. Kirilov correctly asked for a month of analysis, but we cannot say in a month what the conclusions of this analysis will be. What if they think everything's okay now and there's no need to change, in three months, what are we gonna do? Do you think they'll get something else on their mind? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement, then Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a statement that I hope I don't overdo and overdo the debate. I would not like to go back to all the mock arguments that were brought down by the opposition. My request in this direction is this: let's not speculate and let's not hyperbolicize! Some other time, I'll take the liberty of telling the case to the city councilman Hyperball of Athens. Look, there is no way behind a technical solution in which, I admit, we do not see justice, and the organisation of municipal councillors and mayors insist on this justice, there is no way this decision to burden it with these political conclusions. Colleagues, it's obvious the law is working. It's obvious! In your previous statements, there was a huge contradiction. The Law did not work, but a great fear arose. The law only works that when such a serious, large-scale resolution of authorities, a change in legislation is undertaken, it is normal and explainable to have the need to refine some of the organizational and technical consequences. And I have lines to the decisions made in the working group at the Ministry of Justice, which sits for many months. Once again, this was the third, fourth, stage of discussion on this bill. And these proposals are from the very first draft bill, the so-called project Kuneva and the municipal councillors and society, and we knew. I can argue a lot about who slept through what here. If the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria had reacted in any of the moments of public discussion or debate in committees on this bill, we would have discussed this issue and probably made a preliminary decision. However, we have a firm conviction that not only in respect of the rentals of municipal councillors, but also in respect of any other contracts, a precise control should be applied. Plus, there should be maximum and maximum publicity for this. Again, the time until the end of this term, of these municipal councillors, is not blocked, is not placed in the freezer so that no control can be carried out in relation to connectivity or conflict of interest or corruption risk. Look! We're watching too! I will not argue here who are your municipal councillors who are our municipal councilors. We have proposed an equal decision for all municipal councillors, no matter which political party and with which political power they participated in the elections. I don't think this delay would be considered an indiscipline measure. Yes, you are! I believe that this time should be used, but it should be used precisely so that both the audience and the political opponents and the municipal councillors themselves can legislate, take into account the new heavier rules that will be applied, and therefore make a choice to end their relationship with the municipality or not to be municipal councillors. This choice must be made! True, in this interpretation of the Law, the time of one month is evidently short. I appeal to you, to examine this bill within two readings, so that we can respond legally to the problem that has arisen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Mr. Milkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kirilov, I'm using my right to reply to you, and I'm not going to give you an assessment of the legislative work or the text of the law. I will start my line and hope that these words will truly be accepted by all our colleagues. The law can't be given a chance! I'll say that every time. You can't give the law a chance. The law is a system of rules that, if properly written, if the public relations are in line, we here only need to press the start button and it will work. Mr. Kirilov, you said: justice, and that prompts me to give you a line. With this bill, we don't give justice. Justice is judgment, justice is judgment. Right now we're not making a decision, we're delaying the decision, we're currently giving sleeping pills or painkillers. We're sweeping a question under the carpet for two years. The text in the way it was formulated, in which it was adopted, contains that which I said in the Legal Committee, essential problems, which even if we sweep now for a certain period, they remain. In the text, honourable Members, you did not foresee, because I did not vote for him, that municipal councillors do not have contracts with the municipality where they work as municipal councilors. Take a look at this. Three! It is said that they should not have contracts with commercial companies with municipal participation or with municipal enterprises throughout the country. The text is not properly drawn at all. Whether we postpone it or not, it's like a job done. Whether the text was previously created four mandates before us with four drafts of this law, [[the President signals that time has run out]] I am finished, Madam President, the responsibility is not of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The responsibility lies with the National Assembly. In particular, it is the responsibility of the majority responsible and for absolute clarity, in particular, it belongs to the Legal Commission. Whether anyone has noticed it, whether it has not noticed it, whether it has signaled the bill has been reported, accepted and applauded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Second line Mr. Popov, third line Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, you said the Law worked. How will it work when repairs are imposed two weeks after its adoption? This means that the Law does not work, that it is not good, since amendments are imposed suddenly and very soon after its adoption. The municipalities have not given an opinion it is true, but it is your job, as the leaders, as importers of this bill, to submit one that works, not to wait for the opinion of the association of municipalities, but also to listen more to the opposition's voice. Because when we spoke, you couldn't hear us against the charges against us. Now, two or three weeks after his acceptance, it turns out we were right. Indeed, the municipalities have not given their opinion, but they are not a legislative body. At the moment you are the majority of the National Assembly, in particular you of the ruling majority, and you should have perfected this law. I am sure that these will not be the first or last amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u40	Dear Mr. Kirilov, the argument that really needs to be respected and taken into account is that relations change on the move, that is, people have become advisers under certain conditions, we change them on the move. This principle, which you are defending at the moment, that this is wrong and I share it, I ask you to protect it always and with regard to the other entities in the country........................................................................... Because I can give you dozens, if not hundreds, examples of how this National Assembly was changing the rules and the small and medium-sized business, has taken credits for decades ahead and started under some conditions, but they radically changed on the move, their rights no one ran them. Then no one took their opinions into account. This requires the conclusion that in Bulgaria you should be a politician, have a political lobby and political friends in order to receive a postponement or the law to be changed as you are comfortable. Here I come back to a topic that we have discussed many times about impact assessment. If we didn't make it formal, if we really appreciated how any text would affect any target group, we would have foreseen that. This is not the work of the Association of Municipalities and even if no one gave an opinion, we could have foreseen it. But, unfortunately, we have developed in Bulgaria a new one, not only for the country, but also for the world, methodology, in the Bulgarian National Assembly the impact assessment to come on its feet to the MPs, loaded on its back with the impact. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u42	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable Members, who have made speeches! Maybe I'll start backwards. The assessment of the impact of the regulation is a relatively new instrument, which was adopted by the previous National Assembly and was adopted again with the reproach that we are introducing a problematic, controversial institute that we will make it difficult for the legislative initiative. And once again, colleagues from your group swear to God, and on this whole thing, you're making it unconstitutional. In this Bill, especially the last one, which eventually became a legal act, had 70 pages of analysis and impact assessment. I won't comment, I say again I don't want to talk and I don't want you to take my words as a reproach in any way with regard to the National Association of Municipalities. Mrs. Dora Yankova from your group said very well: "We are not one and two who worked for the municipalities and have worked for not a few years in one way or another. So I respect the local authorities, and I respect the municipal councillors and all representatives of the local authorities. I can see why there hasn't been an adequate response during this two-year period. I will also go to the reply of colleague Milkov. You want to take responsibility for the government, it's our responsibility. I'm not running away from her, but I don't want you to denigrate a Legal Committee because you're also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. True, you were the only one who commented not on this issue, but on the issue of the declarations, but after we adopted it, the act, the law, was adopted. And thank you for that comment. Thank you for looking for a way to meet me and say: here there will be a problem with the forms of declarations. Colleagues, I don't want to theorize, but democracy is not just the government, it's the opposition. And you were silent! And the local self-government specialists have been silent for two years! Now the municipal councillors from BSP in Sofia say: "We support this change." Well, I say: "Tell it to the MPs then, by supporting this change." [[Radio and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Mr. Sirakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer. I have seen that the debate is mainly between lawyers, but I have been in the local self-government for the last seven years. Everyone sees in a situation what they want to see. You see, this law doesn't work. I would say that this particular case proves that the Law works. Why? Because he, as Mrs. Dora Yankova said, highlighted a problem. This problem I'm going to divide it into two. On the one hand, what the new law says is about the relationships of municipal councilors with the municipality, with municipal companies, with the participation of the municipality in companies and so on. We all agree that this should not be the case, and it is a wicked practice. So we have this text in the new Law that prevents these relationships. On the other hand, as Mr. Bozhankov said, and I agree with that, in the context of a welded situation a year and a half before the expiry of the mandate, these municipal councillors, at the time when they were candidates for municipal councillors, have become so under certain conditions other than the current ones. That's why this amendment is just delaying in time, solving this particular side of the problem. The other side, which is proof that the Law works, is contractual relations. Yeah, we've established that there's a problem there that we haven't thought of as one yet. Perhaps our society has become much more sensitive to him right now...... whether a doctor, for example, should rent a room in the municipal DCC and if so, how can we change the Law so that they can do so, as well as for the lands? Mr. Kirilov said that within a month we will have a proposal on this case so that this problem can be cleared up. To conclude, I would just like to say that the ruling authorities, in my opinion, are divided into two: government and opposition. We're all in charge. If the Association of Municipalities didn't say anything about this text, I don't know what specifically you said about it? I'm not saying this as an accusation, I'm just giving it as an example that sometimes it takes something to start, to work to make its fine settings, and for me this particular case is not a patch of the Law, but a fine setting. You are lawyers and you know very well that we have a procedure for amending and supplementing the Law, which shows that this is a practice and that this is possible. Will this law change? Yeah, I'm gonna change just now, because he needs to get his fine-tuning done to work. I would very much like all of us to be the leaders and the opposition, all of us as rulers, to remain sensitive to this topic and to make these amendments that the Law really works. Because in the universe, everything is cyclic. There will come a time when you will surely be ruling, we will be opposition, and the Law will continue to exist. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u46	That's a very short line, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, what fine settings are you talking about? We haven't spoken specifically on this text. We've had a lot of pressure on us at both first and second readings to talk about the Bill. And we haven't made a proposal between the first and the second, because figuratively speaking, you can't sanitize a wreckage because inside every single legal text there is a logical consistency and connectivity of the texts. Where this bill is missing even when, on the other hand, there is part of some logic and consistency in it, if it reaches into one point of this Bill, it inevitably leads to a review of all other points, members and paragraphs in the Bill. There is no way we can make our proposals, provided that this law is virtually non-sanitary! That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sirakov, I take the floor for a reply initiated by the following words: we are all in charge. We're all in charge as much as we're all lawyers here. We cannot be divided into lawyers and non-jurists, and whether the issue is legal or not legal. You have set a good example of how you have dealt with the problem today. There are no finer settings. The amendment and supplement procedure applies when public relations change when outside the Law changes, then the Law changes. Understand something, we legislate, we create mechanisms for which we must have the responsibility to be so good and give them enough time to become good before we press the green button. There are no finer settings. The finer settings are on people's backs. They show that the software program we created is not good enough. It excites our talking today. Thank you for your other nice words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sirakov, of course, a bill can be amended, amended and supplemented. It is quite normal that it is not normal to have a month after it has been deeply discussed. This, one. Secondly, what is this about? We're not changing anything. We're putting off a problem for almost two years, and what's the problem? We made a provision in a special law on local self-government, which, one that prohibits a municipal councillor from being in any relationship with his municipality, but, secondly, prohibits this municipal councillor from being in any relationship with all other municipalities. Because that's also one of the key points of the problem. Why isn't this about a fine setting, it's about a whole logic? Because the Law is built so that non-compliance with an obligation, non-application of a declaration, triggers necessarily a variety of procedures, including property checks back, that is to say, any action in this law is related to other actions of the administrative authority that we create this on the one hand. In the private case of the municipal councillor we created an absurd structure of conflict of interest in which the municipal councillor, who is possibly in relation to this municipal council, will be judged whether he is in conflict of interest by the same municipal council. This isn't about fine-tuning. It's about profound confusion in the idea of the entire bill. And when the chair of the Legal Commission rightly says: "They also now exist these people. Why hasn't the Commission for Conflict of Interest established him or hasn't sanctioned him yet? This question is completely legitimate. However, instead of taking the problem of conflict of interest and developing it and removing it, we have done it absolutely not applicable. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The hole, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u52	I'm a little uncomfortable having a debate with a lawyer I respect with an internship. I really do not think that the change in the Law is currently delaying the solution of the problem. First, because these relationships will start to apply at a later stage. We're not saying they're out of the question. They're staying. And where we found out right now that there was a problem, we made a commitment to remove it. Secondly, I want you to understand me correctly. You really don't have a proposal on these particular texts. That's what I'm trying to say. In fact, it is not in a position for such a great Law, a new Law, with so many details to see into it before it starts working! You can see that the Association of Municipalities, which brings together municipal councillors and mayors of all parties, finds the problem not when the Law is adopted, but only when it has to apply it. We are currently commenting on a specific text, a specific case. The only thing I can't accept is talking in bulk, that something is generally not good. Maybe it's not good. Let's wait and see if it's really good. At the moment, it's just a hypothesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time for the legislative part in today's sitting until the debate and the vote on this. One on our agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Inverse opinion please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am proposing an extension of the legislative time until the debate and the vote are exhausted as per paragraph 1. 1, et cetera. Two on our agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Essentially, you want an extension. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to extend the time until the legislative part under point is completed. 1. They voted 133 MPs: for 101, against 5, abstention 27. The offer is accepted. We continue with speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was genuinely pleased when Mr. Kirilov came out to do a procedure and hoped that he would propose that we end this pointless debate and move on to a vote. Unfortunately, you did the opposite. We have been listening to the same speech for two hours by our colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, which begins with the words: "This is a Law that is not working and which only two weeks after it is a fact, we need to repair. Okay, guys, but the law is already there. Either way, there's a problem that's being born right now. This small change is essentially a major one, but at the same time it is a correction that solves a particular problem in this law. Do you think with the amendment that GERB offered and ashed their head that they were wrong, doing this thing in the Law, we will solve the problem, or will we postpone it? This problem is now very serious and urgent. We have to do something. I didn't hear you say that the proposed amendment should not be voted on at the moment. And we're listening to the same thing: "Did we tell you? " - Yes, you told them, and we told them that the Law has problems. But it is a fact, and we need to start repairing it. This is the first step, and I suggest we don't waste our time repeating the same thing, because all your speeches are the same, but we move on to the first reading of this amendment. If you offer her a more reasonable version between the two readings, I am sure that all of us here will discuss it together So far, that's not a fact. I appeal that there is no such procedure as to put an end to the debate, to go further, to the next item on the agenda, and not to waste time repeating the same thing. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, I will listen to your appeal and I will speak briefly, although I don't think this is about wasting our time. If we listened better to these general fairy tales, they wouldn't be the specific problems, and the small specific problem you are talking about, this small particular problem has shown that in Bulgaria if you forbid the municipal councillors to be in commercial relations with the municipality in which they work, you will remain without municipal councillors. If this is a small problem, say hello! The other thing that has shown is that for these two years, which we leave to fix the problem, we have concrete proposals under the ZMSA (The Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration). If you want, I'll introduce you to them whenever you want. The two years we're giving to fix the problem will fix exactly those doctors who have offices in the DCC, because there is a way for them to fix the other municipal councillors. You know who we're talking about. They'll have these two years to work things out. That's not a small problem. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u61	A year and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Hole, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I don't know where you heard in my words that the problem is small. I explicitly pointed out that the problem is essentially a big problem, but the proposal that is currently being discussed to resolve or postpone this problem is working and it can very quickly give real results........................................................................................ My idea was that if you didn't offer something concrete now, and a hundred times to repeat that the Law is not working, that it should be repaired, on the principle. We'll fix it. There's no way to say now with all these speeches, "It's bad, it's gone, it doesn't exist." He exists. Even if we have to make a thousand repairs, we'll have to make them, unfortunately. So let's take the first step and start repairing it if we have to, every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the first vote a bill to supplement the Law on Countering Corruption and to withdraw the illegally acquired property, No 854-01-9, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev. They voted 145 MPs: 108 against 30, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Mr. Kirilov, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to proceed to a second vote on the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote, because no proposals for its amendment or supplement were made during the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Back-up offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u67	Honourable President, I ask you not to put this proposal to the vote, because from our parliamentary group we have the desire to make proposals between first and second readings on this bill. [[Arrival in GERB.]] I propose a 3-day deadline for the proposals to be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov to move to the second vote of the Bill. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You've expressed your opposite opinion. Here you go. [[Replications between MPs Danail Kirilov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. Noise and lines.]] Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u69	Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you: what gives you the right to deprive Members of a legislative initiative? Why are you denying the opposition the possibility of finding a better solution than the government on this bill with proposals between the first and second votes and consideration of the texts? If you put this motion to a vote, you rudely violate the Rules of Procedure. And don't say, "You are right, or are you wrong?" I think you're wrong. Do not deprive Members of the possibility of a legislative initiative. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to put to the vote the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When, Mr. President, there is a proposal made and one stated by MPs from a parliamentary group that proposals will be made between first and second readings... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB: "Why didn't you say that? "]] We are now stating it from the stand I came out specifically to say it! A little while ago as a counterproposal... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u72	Keep your cool, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, from our parliamentary group we will make proposals between first and second readings. Where there is one stated, our Rules of Procedure shall not immediately move to a second vote in the Chamber. Once again, I propose a 3-day deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A new procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u75	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to read the second sentence in par. 2 of art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure: This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendment or supplement to the Draft Law have been made during the discussion. No such proposals were made during the discussion. I offer you the following way out, Mr. Chairman, in this situation. Please put to the vote first the opposite proposal If it gathers support, then my proposal under art. 80, para. 2 shall not be put to the vote. And there will be a three-day deadline for proposals. Then let Mr. Ivanov explain to 6,000 municipal councillors [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why, because of speculation and manipulation, we have missed the term of the 23rd.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I would just like to remind you that, and what you have proposed, I cannot do so to put to the vote a proposal that has been made after yours. I am obliged to put to the vote first your proposal under the Rules of Procedure. New procedure Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u77	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because here the President of the Commission is trying to manipulate the National Assembly and you are allowing it to do so. [[Noise and lines.]] It is written in the Rules that if there is an explicit will to make a proposal between first and second readings and not made proposals between first and second readings, the adoption of the Law at second reading is not allowed. Please follow the rules! Stop practicing with how to break the rules! Mr. Chairman, get your act together! If you want, ask for a break. Look, read the rules! Read the Rules of Procedure what it says and then move on to breaking these Rules! Because we are really starting to look like a parliament in which the ruling majority uses the Rules above all to lean on sleep. [[Noise in the room.]] Don't do that! Follow the rules, be lawmakers! Yes, six thousand people may suffer, but they will suffer from your hasty decision, not that you are changing things quickly again!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u78	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u79	Yeah, it's to you, and you're letting this thing happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u80	Is this another procedure that you're conducting? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, colleagues, keep your cool!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, you allow the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who reports on the bill, to suggest to the Members of Parliament and to the people that hardly Mr. Ivanov or any of the Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, is guilty of this mess, which was obtained with your quick and thoughtless actions in the adoption of this law, and that Mr. Ivanov should explain to six thousand municipal councillors what was going on. In my opinion, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Daniel Kirilov should explain to six thousand...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u82	Mr. Gokov, to me and do not analyze the speakers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u83	But I can't help it, because you allow such suggestion to Mr. Danail Kirilov to suggest that someone should explain to those six thousand. Besides him and the group of GERB, who adopted this bill so quickly and quickly, there is no one else to explain to the municipal councillors why they messed up this mess and why now with violations of the Rules and how it should have been made in the debate on a first vote proposal between the first and second votes. When was this? [[Replying and waving by the GERB group.]] Get out of there and don't wave your hands at me and yell at me, it's not gonna work! It just doesn't work like that by breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u84	Mr. Gokov, I beg you again, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u85	Mr. Chairman, don't break the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Again with the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Really make a remark to Mr. Kirilov when he gives qualifications who should explain to six thousand advisors that they will be victims of the Law! He better explain to six thousand businessmen how they should end their conflict of interest, not that they will suffer as municipal councilors. Perhaps they will suffer their business, Mr. Kirilov, but in the end your fight is for lightening, for fighting corruption and not blackmailing the National Assembly... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u88	To me, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u89	Don't blackmail the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u90	Our fight is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u91	...on Friday to do such wicked acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u92	Please, both of you, don't engage in dialogue! Thank you. It's procedure again, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure not to answer in any way to my colleague Svilenski, but to point out the following: In addition to the explicit statement in our Rules that the request for proposals must have been made during the discussion, in this sense we have a detailed analysis of this provision of our Rules in Decision No 8 of 27 May 2010 in Constitutional Case No 2 of 2010. In the reasons of this constitutional decision, it is again explicitly assumed that the application for proposals between first and second readings must be made during the debate, during the discussion, and not after that. But what does the Constitutional Court say? And here I will agree with my colleagues. If such a second discussion is allowed and there is a desire for proposals, these proposals should be allowed to be discussed at the very second reading. Therefore, I make the following invitation if we go in at second reading, I have an editorial proposal, as the whole law is in a short sentence here we do not have much advance preparation. You've had a week, if you wish in this sentence, where there is one date and one provision, you could prepare yourself. And now you can prepare yourself to make proposals. And I invite you to do this to allow us a second reading. From now on, just like Ivan Ivanov, if we enter at second reading in this sentence of § 1 I will make a proposal. If he is ready and willing, he will also have the opportunity. I therefore believe that we are firmly fulfilling the requirement of Constitutional Case No. 8 of 2010.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Again with the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Again we have heard false data and Mr. Kirilov's attempt to manipulate the National Assembly. I don't know what week he's talking about, but the bill was reviewed on Wednesday. Yesterday he was voted and entered as an emergency point. What week exactly are we talking about that we had at our disposal? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u96	[[GERB, from place.]] : Wednesday to Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Is there another procedure? There are no more procedures. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov to move to the second reading of the Bill. Vote 165 MPs: 112, against 48, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We proceed to the second vote on the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Name of the legal act: The law on countering corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u99	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the legal act. Vote 161 MPs: 117 against 38, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ................................................................................... Paragraph 68 shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 19, t. 2 shall enter into force as from 1 December 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u101	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I have repeatedly been able to say to the respected Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor to make an editorial proposal regarding the text of the proposals § 68. I suggest that he be as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 4, para. 1 concerning the municipal councillors and § 19, p. 2 shall enter into force from 1 December 2019 I'm clarifying and explaining. In the text we include § 4, para. 1. This is the obligation to submit a declaration of property and interests in which I also propose that the implementation of this obligation be postponed for municipal councillors for 1 December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Spits, speeches? I won't. In this situation, I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 as it was made as an amendment proposed in the text presented by Mr Kirilov. Vote 161 MPs: 113, against 43, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The name of the unit of the final provision. ..................................................... The Law shall enter into force on 23 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u105	Statements? I won't. I put the name of the provision to the vote and the text proposed by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Vote 159 MPs: 117 against 41, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. This also ended with the second vote of the Law. Dear Members of Parliament, parliamentary control will begin at 11:00. Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u106	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There have been new requests for the period from 16 February to 22 February 2018: - a request from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov to Bisser Petkov was received from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on income policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 March 2018. - a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Nikolina Angelkova is asked about the business environment in the sector of tourism. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 March 2018. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova Hristova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dora Yankova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - written answer from the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev. Declaration please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, a dozen honourable MPs from GERB and almost none from the United Patriarchs and dear Bulgarian citizens! Yesterday, information came out that the company "Intercom Group" is buying CEZ Bulgaria. Ginka from Pazardzhik registered this company in September 2017, i.e. a few months ago, with a capital of 50 thousand. lv. And Ginka from Pazardzhik pays 320m euros for a business that turnovers more than 1.5 billion. lv. and affects over 2 million Bulgarian citizens and families! It is true that we live in a market economy and everyone can sell and buy assets, but we do not live in a savage country. We don't live in savage, but we may live in that parallel country, which we have been talking about for a year and a half from BSP about Bulgaria and we ask: is there a real state and will we be silent now?! When the king sold 67% of the electricity distribution company we kept silent and did not respond to our arguments that this was not good. When Boyko Borisov sold 33%, again you did not hear BSP. Are we going to shut up now?! Mr. Siderov, where are you? You are partners in this government, and I would not like to mention what the Patriots of this tribune spoke about CEZ, because it was extremely extreme, and it crossed all boundaries. However, it is yours to say that with some good lawyers you will expel CEZ from Bulgaria. We did not approve of these extremes, but I remind you simply because absent patriots today are part of this decision. Does the state not have 320 million to regain control of national security because it is also about national security?! Do not tell me that this is not modern, that it is not European, that what we have been proposing for a long time to become the owner of CEZ was anti-European, because France, Belgium, Greece, the Czech Republic are European countries. And there the property is state because it is a matter of national security and of care for their citizens; it is a question of state relations. We respect Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's efforts to unite the Western Balkans to the European Union. We support it and, as you all know, we are all working together on the priorities of the Presidency, but we strongly insist between two nights to come to the Bulgarian Parliament and to give answers, and they are possible two, to the question: is the government information about this deal and what is its attitude towards it? I don't envy his answers either way. If there is information and silence, then besides a parallel state, we have a parallel government and a parallel prime minister. If he has no idea about this deal, it means that the backstage has long taken over the state and the government has no meaning for him. It is worse that the Czech government thus demonstrates an attitude towards the Bulgarian and the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who is currently in charge of the European Union. Therefore, from the BSP for Bulgaria................................................. the Republic's Ombudsman to take a position on how we will protect the rights of two million Bulgarian consumers! I call on President Radev: Mr. President, we are talking about national security, energy security is part of national security and in your powers is the issue of national security. Please take a position on this matter! I call on civil society and all Bulgarian citizens to talk about more than two million Bulgarian citizens, families and consumers. Probably some of these people like GERB, colleagues, probably some of them are our followers or the Patriots or the DPS, but above all they are bulgarians! There is no view of their political affiliation, addictions or our party rations! It is about the future of these two million Bulgarians, of those families who will have to pay their electricity bills one day with the question: in whose pockets will this money go drained from the Bulgarian people? We call on all institutions and civil society as one to stand this time, once again I say, without regard to my political bias, and say: we do not give our country, Mr. Borisov, nor Ginka from Pazardzhik, nor to anyone who stands behind it! And you, Mr. Borisov, are personally responsible for the future of this deal! We will be against it by all legal and political means. With the help of civil society and institutions we will oppose this brightest example of the parallel state in Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. A declaration on behalf of a group. Come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u109	Dear colleagues! There is no need to dramatize, Mrs. Ninova, I also expressed concerns, I asked questions, in the end there are institutions in Bulgaria and there is no need for you to call them to do their job. You are very well aware that CEZ has chosen to negotiate only with the Bulgarian group "Intercom" and this deal will go through the most thorough inspection by the KZK and KEWRC, and not only by other institutions. So you don't have to summon them, because they'll do their job. There is no need to minimize the meetings of Prime Minister Borisov because they are not just some evenings that you are talking about. 12 leaders from the European Union attended the dinner in Belgium with the Prime Minister of Belgium. Notice, not 28 - 12 leaders from the European Union! The only leader from the Balkan Peninsula is Boyko Borisov and you should be happy about it or at least not belittle it the way you do it! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u110	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u111	I don't see why you have to dramatize yourself with a topic that we all put on the agenda?! We in this part of the Chamber do not take your approach at all to maintain this or that because we have seen it in the past and know where it leads. We know how three or four years ago we had a deficit in energy of 800 million. lv. It's a year-long deficit! Every year, energy lost 800 million. lv. and with joint efforts, as we do in energy, with the support of all the parliamentary groups, we have resolved this issue in energy. Let us not try to make politics from energy! Let us not downplay the successes of the prime minister in these high forums. I repeat: 12 premieres attend the dinner, one of which is our Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u112	We're continuing with parliamentary control. We begin by asking the National Representative Dora Yankova about the development of integrated support programmes for areas with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. I don't see Mrs. Yankova in the hall. The second question is asked by the MPs Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov and Ihsan Halil Hakke about the rehabilitation of Route III-702. Here you go, Mr. Khalil. You have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in connection with our meetings with the residents of Isperih Municipality, the question of the rehabilitation of road III-702 Pristoe "Passeva" "Kipinovtsi" was raised sharply in relation to our meetings with the residents of Isperih Municipality from km 2+000 to km 22+125, serving the municipalities of Isperih and Kaolinovo, as part of the overall road network in Northeastern Bulgaria. In this regard, our questions to you are as follows: are the funds provided for the entire renovation of the above section and what actions has the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works taken? In relation to art. 96 of our rules have also applied a petition from the five settlements and the expectations of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u114	Thank you. That was the people's representative, Ihsan Khalil. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Khalil, on route III-702, we all know there is intense traffic of heavy goods vehicles carrying inert materials, agricultural production and materials for the faience plant and terracotta in the city of Isperih. It is extremely loaded not only by light traffic, figuratively speaking, but also by heavy goods vehicles. Despite the resources invested and all the actions taken, the existing construction is unable to take on the heavy movement that we have commented on, leading to a strong compromise of the asphalt flooring. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, are making efforts to improve the overall state of the section of road III-702. Currently, the contractor for the contract for the maintenance of Republican roads in the area, the so-called TRP contracts (current repair and maintenance), is designing a technological project for preventive repair of the section, which is 20 km long from km 2+000 to km 22+125. The technology project I mentioned will be drawn up by mid-April. The experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency have prepared a project for the design of 80 thousand. lv. The finished technology project and the finished quantitative-value account to it will show the exact value of the preventive repair. According to expert assessment, in an announcement I will respond, the value of the types of work will amount to about 10 million. lv. with VAT, depending on what technology will be envisaged. Technology will be set by the currently developed technology project that I mentioned. Once the project is approved by the experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Institute of Roads and Bridges and by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Razgrad, with a view to the introduction of a temporary organisation of movement in carrying out the ongoing repair activities in the section, the road will be rehabilitated immediately, as early as this calendar year, to providing the necessary funds from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and under the contract for ongoing repair and maintenance will be mainly rehabilitated within 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u116	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Khalil.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for the steps the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has taken. Let's hope that within this year, beyond what needs to be done within the framework of the technology project, we find this opportunity, in the summer at the latest, because people expect what needs to happen. The road hasn't been repaired in 50 years. And the traffic that you said is really the kind of raw materials that come from the port to our businesses, at the same time going in the opposite direction, the finished production, to the port of Varna. It is the same with agricultural production, because you know that the region is highly developed agriculture and as fertilizers with large trucks go, so goes back and finished production, agricultural production. I will be very grateful and on behalf of all the settlements that serve the way if we are ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Khalil. Here's your coat, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Khalil, I am using the right of the duplicate not to contradict what you have said, but, on the contrary, to confirm that it is precisely the facts that you have carried out that are a prerequisite for us to take this matter so seriously. Not even summer, I am convinced that April will be ready colleagues from the API with the technology project and that we can start repair work at the beginning of the month. I mentioned secured funding from the Agency's budget. We don't have a contract here. We use the Treaty for current repair and maintenance. Just a little more information about Razgrad region: you know, now road II-49 Targovishte lv. they're putting in this time. Years ago the part of Targovishte district was made, this year we finish the part in Razgrad region. The preventive repair of road II-51 Loznitsa - I-2, Razgrad - Varna. Last year, a full rehabilitation rate of almost 1 million. lv. You know, it's a small precinct, four miles away. We started last year with the preventive repairs, this year the complete rehabilitation of the section will be completed. In the district of Razgrad we see four, there is also Kubrat Razgrad, we start this year summer, they are 11.7 km, so that in 2019 at the latest spring, we can finish with this section and from Tutrakan to Razgrad to have absolutely, completely completed... [[DPS lines.]] That's why I'm telling you to follow us and keep our commitments here, and I-I-49 to be complete from Tutrakan to Razgrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u120	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Good news. Next is a question from MP Lyubomir Bonev about road III-623 Izvor Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, Road III-623 Izvor is 17 km long and has not been rehabilitated since 1981. It has been repeatedly submitted by the Regional Road Management Pernik, for rehabilitation, has also been submitted under the Program. The route is extremely important, connecting the territory of two neighbouring municipalities..Zemen and Kovachevtsi, on the territory of Pernik region. The road section is part of the road network of Radomirska, Kovachevska, Zemenska municipality and Pernik district and serves for the transport of people and cargo, provides the connection of the city of Sofia and Pernik with tourist and recreational destinations... Lobus Reservoir, Zemenski Monastery and the river Struma. My question to you, Minister, is this: is there a major repair and rehabilitation of road III-623 Izvor Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, I can't always bring good news, unfortunately, not that I don't want to. Here I'll be a little negative in my answer, most likely. For the implementation of a major repair of the third-class road for which you have asked a question, III-623 Gg. Kyustendil is needed due to the large length of the section, more than 45 km. You're absolutely right, decades have not been mostly repaired the road, mending, palliative repairs. The Road Infrastructure Agency did not manage to include in its investment programme not only this but also a number of other sites in the territory of Pernik and the whole country, due to the long-standing, long-term underfinancing of the road sector, of the national road system. At present, the revenue from wineries is insufficient to maintain the road network and even less for future investments. Until the construction and introduction of the tol system, the road administration will continue to plan the repair activities of the Republican road network under limited budget conditions and will prioritize both the intensity and load of road sections and their categorization.. Repairs in first class, second class and third class, third place, unfortunately. This year, a priority site on the territory of Pernik region will be the repair of road I-1, in the section from the station to the Daskalovo road hub due to the high intensity of traffic. I have spoken from this parliamentary tribune on the subject, about high intensity not only in peak hours, but also on holidays, weekends and the formation of congestion. Repair activities will include, besides improving the condition of the section, we have to finish repairs which we started last year in the section of Sofia region along route I-1, this is the exit through Vladaya to Parnik, for the road node Daskalovo. Also, in addition to repairing activities, we will implement a reversible movement through traffic relief systems in rush hours and on weekends and holidays. There is also a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. I hope that within 15-20 days we will finish this procedure for selecting a contractor to rehabilitate the road III-1003 Rudartsi "Kladnitsa" with a length of about 9.5 km. The site is part of the programme "Main repair" of the Agency, with just over 7 million. lv. These two roads are mainly included in our repair program for Pernik district. In terms of budget opportunities, we will expand our investment programme with new sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. The word for a reply has the popular representative Lyubomir Bonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Secretary, it's really not good news. As I said in the exhibition, the operating hours of the road expired in the distant 1981. The following repair works have been done from your written reply from 08.08.2017 for road III-623: repair of weak points on the basis of 70 sq. m, mending of damaged areas 1100 sq. I repeat: 1,100 sq. m. This fully proves that the road is currently in very bad condition and is constantly being made partial repairs, repairs per piece. Mr. Minister, the Republican road network in Pernik region, i.e. roads first, second, third class, is 574 km long. The rehabilitated roads from this network are approximately 47 km, that is, 10% of the common road network. In this case, is it not appropriate for users of the Republican road network in the territory of Pernik region to pay 10% of the price of the wine? That's my question. Mr. Minister, I wish to believe in your responsible attitude, concern and empathy towards the problems of the inhabitants of these extremely small municipalities - Zemen and Kovachevtsi - and I am convinced of your willingness and the opportunity to do what is necessary to improve the road infrastructure in the two municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here's your coat, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, yes, I agree with everything you've presented as factology and as problems. I know that you are absolutely well-meaning and sincere in asking the question and hoping to find a solution, but not just the Republican road network on the territory of the two municipalities. On the territory of 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republican Road Network suffered and you yourself mentioned the period of operation of the road has expired. Since then, we have not had major repairs, that is, we are suffering from a systemic problem in the road sector, and not just for the specific area. In a moment, I will reply to Mrs. Sidorova for a Republican third-class road in Gabrovo district. Dozens, hundreds of these divisions are in bad shape, not to mention in a tragic state. It is precisely because of the fact that we have a systemic problem in the road sector that we are looking for and find the system solution with the introduction of tol fees and electronic wineries, because for more than 30 years we have a huge, heavy problem as a deficit of financial resources. Back in time, and perhaps in your opinion at present, due to the poor planning of the renovation activities on the Republican road network, this may be a secondary problem, but the chronic disadvantage of financial resources is the systemic problem that we will solve and find its system solution. This is not only for the current term of office, but for the next and long term, we will solve the chronic problem of lack of funds in the road sector. I am convinced that in the mid-term plan the themes of the state of the second-class, third-class Republican roads will not stand on the agenda of the residents who provoke you, their MPs, to ask these questions. Then we'll talk about other priorities. We will view the system not as a panacea, but as an extremely important and adequate tool, which will give the necessary resources to keep our Republican roads in a future period in good, in European condition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u128	Thank you, Minister Nankov. There is a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov concerning the repair of the republics road I-8 in the section from km 371+680 to km 372+240 in the region of Svilengrad to the village of Kapitan Andreevo. Here you are, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u129	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question is: the Republican route I-8 in the section from km 371+680 to km 372+240 in the area from Svilengrad to Captain Andreevo has been closed for several years due to landslide processes. Two years ago the municipality of Svilengrad made a duplicate track with a base of broken stone based on the existing canvas from the old road I-8. However, the movement is extremely difficult. Profiling, asphalting and drainage must be done. This time it connects three villages with the Svilengrad Municipal Centre and is the only alternative road for passing motor vehicles if the Motorway is closed in the area from Svilengrad to the border checkpoint Captain Andreevo. In addition, it benefits from extremely many people who are involved in wine-growing and agricultural activities, from shipping companies and from those from the villages working in the municipal center. My question to you, Minister, is: will it be repaired and asphalted in 2018 the route of route I-8 in the section from km 371+680 to km 372+240 in the area of Svilengrad to the village of Kapitan Andreevo?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, I take turns in the news. Now is the positive news of this issue. In an on-site inspection carried out on 9 April 2015 by the company "Geosaprotectata" Ltd., which carries out the protection from landslide processes in the territory mainly of South and South-West Bulgaria, was found a landslide process affecting the Republic road I-8 Haskovo in a 200m long section of Svilengrad. The main reasons for the landslide process are the critical water-saturation of the terrains and the basis of the road mass of the fallen heavy rainfalls, geological construction and specific geomorphological conditions characteristic of the maritsa river bed, as well as the intensity of movement in the section of the vehicles, as you mentioned in your question. As a result of the landslide processes, the road lane is folded and the road in the indicated section is interrupted. The unit is listed in the register of landslides in the Republic of Bulgaria, has undergone a procedure for prioritizing landslides in the country and according to the established valuation methodology is included under No 1 as priority in the list of priority landslides, prepared in connection with the procedure for financing landslide activities under the Operational Programme The procedure is 65 million for landslides in Bulgaria. The resource is not enough, but under No 1 is the section that we are commenting on. I mean, there's already funding for him. The priority axis has been open for application with project proposals since the end of 2017, as the Road Infrastructure Agency has taken action to ensure the necessary funding to strengthen the affected road section and since the beginning of September 2017 launches a tender procedure for selection of contractor, carrying out research design works and the exercise of copyright supervision to strengthen the section 200 m from the I-8 road. In the event that the choice of contractor is not contested, a contract with the selected designer will be concluded by the beginning of April this year at the latest. The contract execution period shall be 40 calendar days from the date of conclusion of the contract. After taking the job, immediately after that we start with a choice of contractor, i.e. a builder. We're re-employing a tender procedure. I hope this will happen at the end of May if there is no appeal under the design and copyright procedure. The exact parameters of the construction and repair works, as well as the length of the road section in which they will be carried out, will be clear with the adoption of the project of the Expert Tech-Economic Council in the Road Infrastructure Agency. The deadline for submission of the draft proposal under the Operational Programme is 28 June 2018, i.e. within this calendar year we will have funding and will award. If there is no appeal, we will start and finish the actual construction on the reinforcement of the landslide. The indicative value is 6.5 million. lv. with VAT. The specific will become clear after the draft I mentioned. In the meantime, the Agency will prepare the procedure for the POP. Until the completion of the I-8 road from Svilengrad to Kapitan Andreevo can use the two alternative routes that you yourself mentioned from the town of Svilengrad on the I-8 road through a phased connection to take part in the Motorway at km 106 and following the route of the highway to reach the Kapitan Andreevo junction. The second is to use a temporary bypass, which I also mentioned.. follow the old route of road I-8 with a length of about 600 m. My answer is: yes, there is funding provided, the conduct of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act after the approval of the project and the start of strengthening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u132	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u133	I thank Mr. Nankov for his comprehensive response. I understand that the route of route I-8 will be repaired, not the duplicate route. I hope this will happen at least until the beginning of the winter period 2018, because for each village to live it, timely services are needed in healthcare as well as in the social sphere. It is also important for the people of these villages who work at the community center. I hope this will happen by the winter period of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u134	Would you like a double, Mr. Nankov? No. We continue with a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on the repair of Republican road III-403, the section from the village of Agatovo to Kramolin village, Sevlievo municipality, Gabrovo district. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Nankov, the state of Republican Road III-403 in the region of Village Agatovo is more than bad. The road section has not been repaired for more than 30 years. A partial repair of the leading road to the village of Agatovo was carried out 4 years ago. From there, the holes or, more precisely, the craters, because these aren't even holes, but craters, they're left. The section is part of a bypass road Sevlievo. "Cramolin" and is the only one for the settlements in the region. And there's not a lot of them. The road leads to the tourist attractions of Krushunski waterfalls and several caves. In the village of Kramolin is located a middle school as well as a kindergarten, which is visited by children from the surrounding settlements. Every day these kids go through the likeness of a road because it doesn't look like a road. In this regard, I ask you for an answer: what are the shortest time limits within which the site can be repaired? Is there intended means for rehabilitation and repair of the road section between the village of Agatovo and the village of Kramolin, Sevlievo municipality, Gabrovo district? I hope you're not gonna answer me again about the toll, because this is gonna be the nth time we're gonna fix with the toll. If this is the panacea, then as soon as tolls are introduced, I expect the first roads to be repaired will be in our region.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, I ask you to meet Mrs. Sidorova's expectations and tell her what means to correct the road.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, you will agree with Gokov. We are promised to start with Stara Zagora first, or with Petar Kanev in Burgas. But this is another topic with which we will start first after the introduction of tol fees. We won't comment on the toll system again, but you are an intelligent woman, you understand very well about the systemic problem in the road sector that we always talk about. And don't talk ironically about the toll system and the new policy that will really solve us to 90% of the problem of not financing the sector. It is these roads that we comment on that will find their solution and their rehabilitation after solving the problem of the implementation of tol fees. The road section between the village of Agatovo and the village of Kramolin, which you commented on, which is part of Republican Road III-403, is not part of the Agency's investment programme for 2018. Part of the Agency's investment programme for this year in Gabrovo region are dozens of sites. I won't read them. I will only focus on the biggest of them under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". 14.6 km from Sevlievo to Veliko Tarnovo "Sevlievo" Draganovtsi. The road value is over 12 million. BGN, almost 13 million lv. with VAT; road II-44 Delyanovtsi from km 14,600 to km 24, length 12,6 km. lv. For Gabrovo's tour with all the heavy equipment we are currently building as bridges, one of the longest tunnels in Bulgaria - 560 meters, as well as all the other rehabilitations we are currently carrying out, including the second-class road between Sevlievo and Gabrovo, I will not mention, as these are repair activities that we started last year and we will continue to carry out in 2018. There is no financial resource available for the road III-403. Last year with palliative renovations below 30,000. lv. We've repaired the toughest stretches. This year again, in the course of the current renovation and the maintenance, for which we have just over 1 million. lv. for the whole area and for all Republican roads over 500 km long, to be accurate is the Republican road network in the Gabrovo region. We will repair it when we are allowed the forces in the toughest road sections, including road III-403, especially at the entrance of the village of Kramolin. The road is in extremely difficult condition. I know what you're talking about. There is an alternative route in two directions through Lovech region: the Lovech road. This is an alternative route provided. There's an alternative path if we're so concerned about hiking. We have an annual growth in tourists of the Krushun Falls. This time, which will be a prerequisite for even greater growth of tourists for the Krushun Waterfalls, but to be alive and healthy and in 2019 we hope to be able to implement the Tol system. Let's get this procedure started, find the revenue we're expecting. Then you will agree with your colleagues where to start, but we will have sufficient resources for absolutely all areas, and not to do on an annual basis on a one-year basis, two third-class roads, rehabilitation, and not always full, but partial, but to do seven-seven-eight and within four-year-old to have a second- and third-grade Republican road network with high performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u138	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, there are always alternative roads, but we are talking about a village where, again, I say, children from seven settlements are taught and every day they travel along this road that really doesn't look like a road. I'm glad you're familiar with the entrance to the village, what craters they are, but all the way between Agatovo and Kramolin are. It's a few kilometers, not tens of kilometers. You could and I believe that you would keep to your word at least the repair activities included in the Road Infrastructure Agency programme include this road section. Let's fill up.. not talk about complete repair and complete rehabilitation of the road, but at least to be accessible. Let's talk about hiking and bypassing. I believe that was in the area of the joke and I will not pay attention to this line of yours. As far as the system is concerned, I suppose that at the moment it starts working, so much money will be generated that all roads will start to be repaired at the same time; there will be work for both business and roads will be repaired, and areas. We're not gonna fight, and we're all gonna have nice roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, who will answer a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev about the measures to address the problems in the system for controlling the trade in fuels. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! One of the most loudly proclaimed ones and successes that your government has stated, Mr. Goranov, is the fight against smuggling and the fight against the grey economy. You know that the BSP parliamentary group insisted that the DANS report on the verification of how the information system, which should monitor the trade in fuels in Bulgaria, should be declassified. We've received this consent. You know, there was a debate in the room. I just want to remind you what the conclusions of the SANS report were based on their verification. The Information System of the Customs Agency is vulnerable to impact. After analyzing the hard drive of the operator machine, significant technical problems have been identified, which call into question the reliability and accuracy of the data. Signs that the contents stored on a magnetic carrier have been erased there is a threat to the country's financial and economic security. There are signs that employees of the Customs Agency have amended the content to conceal manipulations carried out in the system. All this, Mr. Minister, doesn't say BSP. All these are cited conclusions from the report of the State Agency of National Security. At the hearing held at the National Assembly, you tried to convince us that these were technical problems. I don't accept that. Smuggling can't be a technical problem. Smuggling is only available when there is protection from the highest administrative and political levels. Mr. Minister, what is important in my question is why the report of the SANS of 12 July 2016 The conclusions and recommendations from the letter you provided on 3 January 2018, we understand that a number of the most basic recommendations and conclusions from the SANS report continue not to be implemented? There can hardly be a more significant issue than the one that guarantees the revenue side of the budget. You know there's over 5 billion in excise revenue this year. I do not understand why no measures have been taken, and why is the report still pending?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u142	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Come in for an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u143	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Boychev! My colleagues at the Ministry have prepared an answer, but I am provoked by the line that the topic is not technical and political, and I will use the time for a different style of response. Certainly, if we are talking about a policy relating to reducing the grey sector and combating smuggling, an expression of such political will is the very existence of the BASIS system. Although some vulnerability has been identified over the past two years, which has given the system a potential for unstable operation, it is the only resource that allows to reduce corruption pressure on the system without human intervention. It was built precisely at the time of the government of GERB, as a clear desire to create all possible tools for reducing the opportunities for smuggling of fuels or rather avoiding the possibility of paying excise duties as a result of which VAT. I will read to you the measures taken in relation to the nine notes that were given by the State Agency of National Security. By the way, in the course of the joint work in 2016 with the State Agency of National Security, you missed to note the debate on 22 January that actually experts of the Customs Agency were seeking assistance from the State Agency of National Security....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the analysis of technical problems encountered and based on the opinion obtained in the Agency by the experts of the NSAs, including the analysis of the administration and operation of integrated communication devices for monitoring and control (ICUNC) and the way to provide data from them to the module (s) measured devices (s) in the period of operation of the BASIS by the customs administration, the following measures have been taken: a system for monitoring the operation of the individual servers, which sends a notification to certain employees in case of technical problems; the commitment to business is implemented, in the face of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, with the aim of monitoring the availability of the network and the state of the operational system of each INC; the excess processes of the IFC servers established have been improved; the mechanism for control of the installed, which are not used, but create the possibility of remote access; a system for monitoring is built to monitor the availability of network connectivity and state of the operational system of each INCS; [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm not gonna use the backrest, Madame Chairman. A number of operational references have been redefined in order to align them with the excise legislation; order, method and form of transmission of the data from the measuring and control tools under art. 103, para. 1 of the Law on excise and tax warehouses; the algorithms on which identified risk events related to the data in this module are updated; migration of BASIS modules to the new versions of the JBoss Application Server app server, version 7, database server and Informix Dynamic Server, version 12 and Java 1.7. Within the framework of the project was carried out the renovation of all IKUNK and the realization of migration to JBoss 7, information boards with diagrams for management needs and funds of IBM Cognos have been drawn up; it has been implemented and integrated into the BASIS monitoring system Zabix, which monitors the performance of the servers of BASIS and IKUNC; an audit has been carried out on the status of information security by Microsoft experts. The recommendations made are implemented according to the plan made by the same experts; a mechanism for access to the employee's work station is implemented only by electronic signature through MS Active Directory tools; policies are imposed to control jobs that are accessible to a certain employee; policies are imposed to limit and use software to only the necessary ones; policies are imposed to limit access to the employee's internet; policies have been reconfigured for the use of non-compromised and secure cryptographic means when using web services and web systems of the Customs Agency. The construction of this system should be completed by the end of April 2018. In the meantime, it has taken over the technical support of BASIS since the summer of last year and I hope that their expertise will further contribute to the stabilisation of this extremely complex and multi-modulated system, which allows to largely control the movement of fuels and all excise goods in the mode of deferred excise duty payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u144	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Here's a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, it is clear that electronic information systems are barriers or obstacles, or should be such, against smuggling and abuse in the case of the trade in excise goods. The big problem, however, which appears after the conclusions of the examination of the National Assembly and remains for all MPs and the Bulgarian society, is that when you build an information system, when you implement this information system, it becomes clear that there are manipulations in it and it allows it to have manipulations, from perhaps the highest administrative level of operation of this information system, the only conclusion I can draw is that the goal is not to combat smuggling and corruption. The only conclusion, Mr. Minister, and this is very serious, which I do, is that the goal is to organise and centralise smuggling and corruption. This will mean that only those who have access to the system at the highest level will be able to tell which or which vehicles, trucks to pass through. This is the big issue that all of us need to solve - guarantee the revenue in the budget. I'm sorry, but your reply didn't make it clear, from the letter you are saying that one of the most important recommendations relating to increasing the security of the transmitted data from these exported points in order to ensure the constant volume, you are saying that the use of the same highest-right user, with the same remote access password, of these 340 points on 3 January 2018, only 47 have made the necessary recommendations. You do realize that even if there is only one, the doubts that the system allows it to be manipulated will stand. That's the big responsibility. I allow myself to say, Mr. Minister, that I understand this either as a provocation to you, because I have no other explanation for so long to have vices in this system and not to be removed from 2016, or I do not wish to accept it as you knew about it and it is done with your consent. There is no other explanation why one of the most important information systems, which must ensure trade in excise goods and revenues in the 2016 budget, when these problems have been identified, they have not been solved so far. For me personally, the state should not have another, more important task than this. I hope that what you have expressed from the stand will be expressed and that you will persuade your colleagues in the parliamentary majority to support our proposal for a committee of inquiry, which will clarify all these issues both from the implementation and the overall functioning of this system. I think we owe all this to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. We should thank the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions and questions to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. She will answer, first, a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov on nuclear energy policy. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u147	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Developing this issue, I will make a brief retrospective of the events of the last few years, which, I can boldly say, radically alter the trends and position of the world community in the field not only of energy, but also of industry as a whole in order to preserve our nature. First, a decision of the Paris Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention of September 2015. A decision to vex environmental pollution measures in the fight against climate change. This decision was made by 195 countries. On 28 April 2017, the European Union, the member states with 20 votes for the Paris Conference and 8 against the Council decided to implement the decision. This also leads to the development of a roadmap for decommissioning of coal heating plants, not of the Bulgarian ones, but of the European ones, which should start in 2021 and end in 2030. Of course, we've already discussed this matter. We will make every effort to obtain the possibility of a derogation, i.e. delaying the removal of our thermal plants, but one is our desire, and another is the results that can be achieved. Because this is about some malicious attack against the Bulgarian thermal plants, this is about a global process. Thirdly, after the arbitration decision, more than a year ago we have already paid the basic equipment with a long life of operation two sets for two thousand megawatt blocks. This equipment is already standing on the site of Belene and is waiting for our solution for its realization. The report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (BAS) came out. Despite the many unnecessary information, I would not categorize it more harshly, there are clear signals as to what is the beneficial option for Bulgaria for building new capacities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u148	The weather, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u149	There is also another element that does not yet receive publicity, but over the next 20 years will inevitably happen.. passing cars with power and stopping the production of internal combustion cars. Simple account: 500,000 cars in normal transition means the need for a thousand megawatt blocks. That should be taken into account. Everyone's quiet. These are simple accounts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Genov, there will be an opportunity for supplementary questions and for expression of attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u151	In any case, there is no alternative to nuclear energy in these conditions, with these changes in humanity's vision. Our question is: what is your ministry's nuclear energy policy? My request is that you state a clear policy with clear deadlines in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u152	Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u153	The countdown has begun.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u154	We're starting to read it. I give Minister Temenuzhka Petkova a chance first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Dear Mr. Antonov, the management program clearly outlines the priorities in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ One of the main objectives set out in the programme is the extension of the duration of the operation of the V and VΙ block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the increase of the power of V and VΙ block to 104%. As you know, the activities of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" on the continuation of the life of V and VΙ block are estimated in two main stages. The first stage is the complex investigation and assessment of the residual resource of the equipment and facilities of the units V and VΙ of the nuclear power plant This stage was implemented between 2012 and 2014. The second stage is the implementation of the preparation programme for the continuation of the life of the V and VΙ block. Following the implementation of those activities in time and completeness, on 3 November 2017, the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency awarded the licence to extend the operation of the V block for a new 10-year period. The findings of the analyses show that there are no restrictions on the safe operation of the block for a period up to 2047. With the granting of the licence, the power to operate the V block 10 years is granted to the NPP. By 2047, the Atomic Power Plant is about to apply twice more for subsequent licences. With regard to the VΙ NPP block, all activities of the second stage shall be carried out in accordance with the deadlines set out in the time schedule of the project. By the end of 2018, all necessary documents will be submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to extend its operating licence. The project to increase the reactor power to 104% is successfully implemented and in November 2017 a phase of the planning tests for the operation of increased power was completed. The V block is expected to rebuild a high-pressure cylinder on the turbine and plans to complete the activities of increasing power in 2019. Another major priority in energy policy in terms of nuclear energy is the safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, including the construction of a national storage facility for the disposal of low and medium active waste. In this respect, on 29 August 2017, a State-owned company "Radioactive Waste" officially launched the construction of the national repository for low and medium-active radioactive waste. The construction of the national repository is also enshrined in the updated national strategy for managing spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste by 2030 and is a commitment of the Bulgarian government to the European Commission. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development financed the project through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the value of the first stage of the construction of the repository was 71 million. 820,000. Euros. Construction works on the first stage are expected to be completed in 2021. Our government's nuclear power management programme is set yet another goal, namely an analysis of the possibilities for using the equipment acquired with a long production cycle to build the nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. As you know, such an analysis was assigned to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As of November 2017, this analysis is already a fact and is publicly available. You mentioned, Mr. Genov, that this analysis is very extensive, involves an analysis of the project from all points of view, from all directions, but what I believe and what the vision of the government is that this report is a very good base, a very good starting point for a debate, for launching a discussion related to really the most rational and most optimistic and defending to the maximum extent the interests of Bulgaria development of this project. I believe that Parliament is the place from which this debate must be launched. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for two supplementary questions, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u157	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Dear Mrs. Petkova, what we have heard is somewhat too disturbing. Indeed, the time is not enough in one question to gather all the information about what is happening with Bulgarian energy, but the real time we are commenting on with regard to NPP is too small and disturbing. Firstly, the colleague gave a clear picture, but we have a few disturbing things. In the Energy Commission Mr. Valeri Nikolov commented that we do not have a nuclear strategy and the report given for NPP "Belene" in fact concerns only NPP "Belene" and does not concern nuclear strategy. So it is imperative that such debates be held in this House, specifically with regard to the NPP of Belene. The headquarters "Belene" began 1980 with the relevant decisions, 1987 the big construction began. It stops in 1990. We have a similar case with now a delivered reactor, which, as a result of the suspension of work, was then sold at an extremely low price. Not to say the price of scrap, but at an extremely low price. Today we have a similar option, only that the case is that we have two reactors, we have a set ready to a large extent and, I continue, a BAS decision, which is for us the most authentic, which has been done by these specialists and experts. So in this direction are my supplementary questions. What are we doing? We need a clear concept. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences report says that the project is an effective project and must be completed under the relevant market conditions. The second thing on the site, Belene, we have two reactors. How do we store them and what do we do with these reactors until they are installed on the site of Belene, respectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Minister Petkova, for the answers to the supplementary questions Mr. Antonov asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, two very important supplementary questions. I think that we have had the opportunity in this House before to debate the topic related to the Project "Belene" with its past, present and, hopefully, future. As you have noted, this is about a project that has been in the public domain for more than 30 years and remains unresolved, what will be its destiny? You have rightly noted that this project has been developing since the 1980s. The project was stopped in 1990 in the event of a site being built, in the case of equipment being delivered, in the case of all licensing procedures to be carried out. Eventually, this equipment, as we all know, was sold for pennies back. I think that this mistake from the past should not be made, and all of us, in common efforts, must make sure that this does not really happen. Besides that in its report the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences makes an analysis and examines different scenarios regarding how the best way to use the equipment for NPP "Belene" how in the best way to make use of these assets and costs, which are the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, which have been made so far, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences makes one conclusion which I consider absolutely reasonable. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences says that the worst-case scenario is to do nothing in this direction. I share this conclusion and I really think that this is the worst case scenario. However, we must not forget that in order to get to the payment of the equipment at the end of 2016, the Bulgarian State provided an interest-free credit to the Ministry of Energy through the budget of the Ministry of Energy to be able to pay this part of the obligation for which we were sentenced by the International Commercial Arbitration. This loan is interest-free, but it doesn't mean it doesn't have to go back. It shall be back by 2023 at the latest. The national electricity company will not be able to repay this loan until then if there is no known development of this project or at least to know what direction it is. I will still allow myself to appeal to you and to all competent people in the field of nuclear energy in Bulgaria: with joint efforts to really make a very meaningful debate. A debate from which to make it clear what are the pluses, what are the minuses, what are the risks and for our energy system, what are the possible negative scenarios both in one direction and in the other, and possible positive scenarios so that we can really make one decision with consensus. I believe that such a project can only be implemented on the basis of a broad consensus. Therefore, I think that when it comes to important things in Bulgarian energy, you have already proved it, we manage to find the common language, we manage to find good tone and sensible solutions. I'm sure this project will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. You're welcome to express your attitude, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u161	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, we cannot be pleased with the answers to the question, although you have tried to take an attitude towards it, because in the end what we have heard were more organizational events that have been undertaken, but not a vision, a policy that should be carried out by you, which is also your obligation under art. 4, para. 1 of the Energy Act. We administrate your desire to hold a broad discussion on the topic of nuclear power in parliament, and we think it is really nice here in this House to reach consensus on the future of nuclear energy in Bulgaria, which includes V, and VΙ Block of Kozloduy, includes nuclear power plant Belene, but also includes a future that does not end in 2047, but goes on after that, which means we need to think about what we are doing with power units in Kozloduy when the time comes. What are the opportunities for meeting the European Commission's requirements in terms of low-energy energy, they are already fighting for emission-free energy? You know very well that the only alternative at the moment, in the presence of modern technologies, is nuclear energy, because there is no other base-free energy at the moment. In this regard, Madam Minister, we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are submitting to the National Assembly a request for a debate on this question with a draft decision. Here you go, Madame Chairman. [[Passing the documents to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u163	We hope precisely during this debate and the adoption of the decision, which implies some preliminary work to be done by the government. We here can form opinions, we can adopt decisions, but politics you are conducting, and this work must be done by you, we can achieve this consensus that we are fighting for, and ultimately, using the actuality of the moment, if we still have nothing to do with this equipment, let's offer it to Ginka from Trebitch, there might be money to buy it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. In connection with the previous inquiry, letter No 854-00-18 of 23 February 2018, submitted at 12.07 p.m. today, received a request for a debate on question No 854-05-4 of 31 January 2018 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy. The proposal and the project are signed by 68 MPs, the requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, more than one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly, shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Thank you, Madam Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We'll be expecting you next week for the debate. We are continuing with questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MP Rumen Gechev on VAT fraud established by the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable colleague Radev! My question is as follows: how many value added tax frauds have been established by the Ministry of Interior in particular large amounts committed by legal entities for the period 2012 - 2017 by specifying which persons are these specifically and at what stage is the work on the established offences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gechev! As a result of the work of the Directorate General for Organized Crime in 2012, we have 24 pre-trial proceedings, here we include investigations under art. 321 of the Criminal Code; 2015 .. 14; 2016............................................................................... The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "Twelfth. " - 12 / 1 For the period from June 2013 to February 2015, the Directorate-General for Organized Crime (CSD) could not provide information because it was not in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. With the entry into force of the Law on SANS, the State Agency of National Security, the General Directorate of Organized Crime, has been removed from the structures, as you know of the Ministry of Interior and related to the State Agency. After that, by amending the Ministry of Interior Act, February 2015 is again in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Those pre-trial proceedings shall be under art. 321 for organized criminal group and in connection with art. Art. 225. 226 of the penal code. This is from the General Directorate of Organized Crime Fight. The National Police Directorate-General (National Police) is responsible for the number of cases registered as a result of its work only under art. 225, it is about sums in particular large amounts in the Penal Code. The following cases have been registered in the Directorate General of the National Police and the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry in the country: for 2012. - 67 cases; for 2013 - 99 cases; for 2014 - 124 cases; for 2015 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, in particular of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Information shall include both criminal cases and pre-trial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u168	Mr. Gechev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u169	Thank you. Dear Minister Radev, your response is very unexpected. I asked you very specifically: who are the legal entities in which the Bulgarian State has brought the entire procedure to an end? The Ministry of Interior cannot only account for some numbers that have been increasing in recent years. I will recommend you, there will probably be further questions, what does the state do, including the Ministry of Interior, are you following these procedures that go further into the judiciary and what are the results? Because there are no results! Responsible international institutions, including Transparency International, ranked us not the first in the European Union yesterday, but the first in the entire European continent on corruption, but corruption includes the exact theft of VAT and the non-payment of excise duties, which is also indirect theft. You didn't answer my questions specifically at all and you didn't mention any legal person. So I'm going to give you an example. The example is as follows: Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, 2013 I will give you the case and will ask you to check it out, making the following conclusion: the Ministry of Interior and the NRA four years covered a group for VAT fraud. It is about companies in Plovdiv, established according to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior lv. And they're looking for another 30 million. lv. It's 40 million. lv. Since it is a specific case, I would ask you to check and report to us these men in quotes from the Ministry of Interior and the NRA at what stage of judicial proceedings are they, what disciplinary measures have been adopted against them, since the then Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior says that the Ministry of Interior and the NRA for four years have been covering up VAT drains in tens of millions? We will find another way to ask, to debate in plenary, but obviously this is a serious problem of the Bulgarian state, which is probably not from yesterday. An institution does not care at all how the research goes and what punishments the insolences that steal from the Bulgarian taxpayers and the Bulgarian people tens of millions of levs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm not happy with the answer at all. There's no specifics, there'll probably be a lot of other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u170	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I deliberately answered you in this way and you rightly ask the second part of the question who will answer you only the question is not to me and I will tell you why if you want. I think you know. The information is conducted for pre-trial proceedings and what happens from then on is provided only with the permission of the prosecution. I can't tell you what happened on those scams, I just listed the ministry's responsibility and what happened in the statistics. You are absolutely right that these pampered ones, as you have called them, and because, like you, I also know that these are, by memory, I may not be right, but about half of the revenue is VAT in the budget, so this is a huge problem and, if there is and exists, I have only recited to you what... and the cases that we are getting to, what is going on there in the state, please ask the prosecution. I've prepared to answer why I can't name the persons you're asking for. It says in the question: legal persons to name them. I won't do it because the law won't let me. If you want, I can give you exactly why, but I don't think I'm wasting time explaining why I can't answer you, you should ask the right person. You are MPs and you have the opportunity. Ask those who hold this information. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My opportunity is over. What the Ministry of the Interior says, I answered you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u172	What law says you can't tell?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u173	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act there it is said what information we have the right to give and I quoted you art. 198, if I didn't mention it before, I'm telling you again. 198, para. 1 of the Penal Code. I'm sorry, don't ask that of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Teodora Halacheva and is about the measures of the Ministry of Interior in relation to an increase in the number of crimes committed by minors. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! The last few years, we've seen drastic acts of child crime. Since 2017, we have 6033 anti-social acts and crimes committed by children, and 2749 are the newly filed reports in the Children's Pedagogical Room. Since the beginning of 2018, two unmotivated murders have been committed by children in Varna and Aytos. Every day, we learn from the media about violence between children, among children at school, and also on the street. Violence and violent behavior are perceived by more and more Bulgarian children as the norm of behavior, unfortunately. More often among adolescents there is a breakdown in the nervous system, in the value system, disregard for the law and the most valuable disregard for human life. This speaks of an urgent need for your ministry and for immediate action. In this direction, my question is: is there any emergency measures of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria to prevent and counter crimes committed by children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Halacheva! Specialized employees who deal with this specialized topic of child crime in the Ministry of Interior work on the prevention and countering of child crime on the basis of the Ministry of Interior Act, the Law on Combating Anti-social Events and Crimes of Minority, and a number of national, international acts concerning the work with children on which Bulgaria is a country. That's the frame. The two main prevention programmes aimed at the general prevention of children for the national programme are called the "Work of Police in the Schools of 2000" and the "Children Police Department" which started in 2016. The first program, which is set out in this programme, is called the Programme, for general prevention in relation to children of school age, along with what this programme does, is for example building models for the safe conduct of students, creating a positive attitude towards the police and its activities and getting acquainted with students, according to their age respectively, with the initial, elementary concepts, including the responsibilities they carry when committing a possible crime. In 2017, over 8195 lectures were given in kindergartens and educational institutions. The second programme under this programme has revealed 202 children's police departments.The program is also said to all districts of the Ministry of Interior, where 4393 children between the ages of 8 and 12 are trained. The training under the Programme aims to protect the life, health, rights, property of children, to form skills and habits for proper conduct in different situations. The ultimate goal is to reduce the crimes and anti-social events carried out by children and children, as well as to create a civil position and strengthen trust in the institutions in Bulgaria. That was on both programs. Along with this, the Directorate General of the National Police (National Police) is a dedicated website for prevention of violence against children. Prevention, prevention, prevention I have said it several times, and countering child crime! The main purpose of this site is to acquaint children with their rights and obligations, with basic safety rules, with patterns of behavior in conflict situations, as well as to provide accessible, useful and up-to-date information to specialists working with children. In 2017, in order to improve the information protection of children and prevention, I say again, children's crime are made, printed and distributed 400,000 brochures with different preventive focus. Information materials are about prevention of drug use, tobacco, alcohol and so on. Information brochures related to their safety were distributed to all first-graders in the country's territory on 15 September 2017. In order to ensure the safety and security of children and in order to limit the criminal offences against and from them, police operations are carried out on a monthly basis, again prevention is carried out in the areas of educational institutions and public places. Such 9211 inspections were carried out in 2017. In conclusion, I inform you that there is no sharp increase in crime committed by children. You have received detailed statistical information from the Ministry of Interior, in writing to you on a parliamentary question concerning crimes committed by children in the period 2015, 2016 and 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Halacheva, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, unfortunately I cannot give a satisfactory assessment of your response. I cannot agree with the fact that with brochures, lectures, programs and police presence, which is enhanced around schools, we will solve the problem of growing crime in my opinion. I give only two examples of the written answer I received from your Ministry, namely: in the last three years the number of newly registered cases in the Children's Pedagogical Room has increased from 2497 in 2015 to 2749 in 2017. This speaks of 300 new cases. The non-absorbing manifestations of child crime in the declining absolute number of births of children in the country talk about the lack of state policy to tackle the problem of growing childhood crime in minors in the country. I will give you only one example from yesterday from my electoral district 16 - Plovdiv, 15 years old with 51 police registrations in your system. Just yesterday, the person who is 15 years old committed two thefts in one day, I pay attention! This is unacceptable! I consider this absurd. I believe this speaks of the lack of policy on the part of the Ministry of Interior. Here, in addition to prevention, we need to talk about the commitment of the Ministry of Interior to solving the problem of child crime because it is serious and specific commitments I did not hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Here you are, Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Halacheva, I don't know what you didn't hear, but I have read you in detail what the legal documents are, what we have done on so many programs and, including the brochures that I don't know why you treat so ridiculously. That's what the Ministry of Interior does. From this high tribune, as you said, ask others who are responsible for child crime. What you're telling me is that with 300 people, notice, you said it, in the information that we gave you, read it again, it says more. This does not mean that child crime is increased. Maybe you work better and get started before they've been brought in, who knows, there needs to be an analysis. I want to tell you that due respect to what you're telling me doesn't mean there's more crime. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I conclude with the fact that responsibility for child crime, especially for child crime, you have brought it all down to the Ministry of Interior. I'm not running away from this, so I told you in detail what we do, what programs there are. Look around, ask other colleagues in other ministries, think back, not just the ministries, not the ones in power, whether we are or not: who else is responsible for schools, parents, family and so on? Finally, we come and control, we do almost impossible, and we start with brochures, what should have been done at school that should have been done in the family, we try to finally, although we control that, to do it. I think we're even crossing the line. I'm not saying we've done everything, but comparing it to the other countries that are doing something in this area, my assessment and what I've seen at the Ministry is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Krasimir Yankov and is about the analysis of the activities of the Ministry of Interior. You have the floor, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, at the first meeting of the political leadership and trade unions in the Ministry of Interior, you announced that a functional analysis of the Ministry is needed. From your statement during a meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order in the National Assembly, we understand that within a few months there will be an analysis of the activities of the Ministry of Interior. The specific question: who is the analysis assigned to? Is this analysis expected to give guidance to your assessment of the level of remuneration of the employees in the Ministry of Interior system; for what structural and functional changes will the analysis in question give guidance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u184	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, on the grounds of art. 20, para. 4 The Public Procurement Act between the Ministry of Interior and a collective of scientists from the University of National and World Economy has concluded a contract for a consulting service with the subject of improvement of the management model of the Ministry of Interior (actions and structures). As a result of the implementation of the Treaty, we expect structural management problems related to improving the management model to be identified. This is professional management monitoring of the system in transition and adaptation. As a result of the analysis, internal structures will result, as you said, changes aimed at improving overall coordination and increasing the effectiveness of the management and activity of the Ministry of Interior. The contractor should submit his report by 23.03 this year. A procurement procedure relating to reengineering shall be prepared. In short, the system through which to explore and improve work processes and systems to the level of executive position. This may contribute to a change in the remuneration system, but there is no direct link.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The nature of the work of the Ministry of Interior takes place with dynamics and specifics, which is largely not visible to the outside eye. If you, a year after working, resort to external expertise, question the effectiveness of your team. If for everything in the Ministry of Interior you resort to techniques such as counting cans on the buckets by representatives of another structure to detect a percentage of smuggling, rather than revealing distribution networks and cigarette warehouses without Banderol, my assessment is that you are not doing well. You show the schematics and diagrams of the disclosure, but you don't explain why they are getting smaller and lower and lower are the levels of the application materials? Why do people not believe you and think that their complaints are pointless? The enthusiasm with which you talk about success in your work is by no means derived from the atmosphere of uncertainty in small settlements, the responsibility for the care you transferred to the private security business. Obviously, the idea of your management is: less and less funding from the budget of important functions for the state and an out-of-popular blockage of crisis situations by handing out amounts beyond the budget planned by Boyko Borisov's 100 million model for the Ministry of Interior. You can't manage and your security system doesn't function normally!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u188	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, you have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u189	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, you are in some state by standing here asking me questions that have nothing to do with the question you are asking me. [[(Replication by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov:]] I'm sorry, but I'm trying to answer your question specifically, to give you data. I'll fill you in on this, or if you want, I'll read it to you. There's no one here talking about the kind of things you're talking about. In the question you ask about the structural and functional model, about the changes that are to come and tie them to the remuneration. Where are you going and what questions are you asking me who believes us, who doesn't believe us?! I'm sorry, but such populism... [[(Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov: You don't understand...?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] And to answer you specifically. This model, which I have spoken to you about, rankly and respectfully, as before the MPs to tell you briefly what we are doing, I will tell you more, continuing on the subject so that you know, because you have the right to ask without responding to political banter. The Department of Defense, and I personally know, and what I know, there's someone who can appreciate us. It's not you! You didn't choose me personally. You have the right to ask me, and I answer you, and there are other grades. Along with these others, including the trade unions, as you well mentioned at the beginning, at least it was true, we sat down and thought about what to do. We have ideas what to do, but we won't do it like others who have done it in a piece. They said, "Bravo, yeah, okay. Finally, someone will look into the future and I mean the new political leadership, so we have concluded this treaty, so we are waiting for the World Bank to help us. And we'll do it in the summer period. We have said that March month will be the first draft and draft of this contract, then there will be further continuation until summer. And then when we look at the whole system slowly, carefully, because it has been changed many times so far, and the employees themselves claim that they have failed or not so successfully, we will make our decision. Not that we don't know, we know now what to do in some parts, but we can't know everything. I think that's how you do it with scientists. Not everyone knows everything, including every employee. We'll take their expertise, which is inside, and we'll take the scientists'. There are rules. Then we will say what needs to be reformed there, including, if necessary, to change the remuneration, although I tell you again, I do not see any direct link between this. In fact, that's the answer to your question, and that's what you're asking me. I'll save up for the rest and I won't answer you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u190	Thank you, Minister. Question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov on the results of the measures against smuggling in 2017. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, during a meeting organized by the initiative against illegal trade, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov pointed out that Bulgaria is an example in the fight against cigarette smuggling throughout the European Union. The prime minister announced that the lowest level of contraband in cigarettes is reported, and the downward trend is lasting. Here's a reference from the Ministry of Finance. [[revises Minister Valentin Radev]] which shows that 22 billion short cigarettes were placed in 2008 and in 2017. 13 billion short cigarettes. According to her, in nine years, smokers have halved. In this regard, I ask you to answer: how many smuggling investigations, how many charges are there and how many damages are found for the state budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u192	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, as a result of the good interaction between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency, 50 million were seized for 2017. 759 thousand. 888 short cigarettes, which represents about five, five and a half TIRs; 48 tonnes, round, chopped tobacco, which is about six tolls, to make it clear; 193 thousand liters of alcohol "rounded, aligned to a hundred degrees and 260 thousand, round again, gas oiled. The prevented damage to the budget amounted to BGN 18 million. A total of 1457 pre-trial proceedings under art. Art. 242 of the Penal Code and Art. 234. As defendants, 996 people were attracted. For 2017, 19 specialized smuggling operations were carried out, three of them with foreign partner services. In 2017, effective coordination and close operational cooperation with competent state institutions in order to ensure effective protection of internal fiscal interests was undertaken by the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre to counter smuggling and control the movement of risk goods and goods to the Directorate General for Organized Crime. A total of 308 "391 checks were carried out on the means of transport at the fiscal points on the territory of the border crossing points and 92 316 technical means of control were placed. 59 195 inspections of goods and goods at high fiscal risk were carried out by mobile teams inside the country. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 294 thousand. BGN 561. or more than 17% increase compared to the previous year. The collateral raised is 1467. Abandoned commodity in favour of the State totals 77 thousand. BGN 823. 874 acts have been taken to establish administrative infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kirilov, here's the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u195	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer, because clearly, as the statistics have shown, in nine years only the short cigarettes are reduced by half. You're quoting data here that for 2017, you caught five TIRs of chopped tobacco and six TIRs, if I'm not mistaken, with 53 million short cigarettes. Once again, the bet shorts are 10 billion less. And that is why I will specify, such a result is achieved only with constant work and effective control for some period of time to bring about structures dealing with smuggling, huge damage to them and a lack of opportunity to carry out their activities. This should have its expression in digital indicators. The fight against smuggling is comprehensive and the control of this smuggling cannot be carried out on just one particular product, but on all goods, the object of smuggling activity. In this sense, it is my question: for what types of goods and quantitative dimensions have results for disclosure and what is the number of resulting industries concerned?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u196	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole, Mr. Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I was also a MP and I never allowed myself to ask so many questions after that. How do you expect me to answer you with numbers and numbers, as you asked at the beginning, by asking me a bunch of new questions? I've answered you specifically, I've tried, I've taken all the information that can be retrieved specifically on your question. Out of respect for you, I won't read it to you again. And it's not five years, it's one year, it's those five truckloads I told you about 50 million short cigarettes and 48... And so on. Don't give me the graphics you're asking me to interpret now. I won't do it out of respect for you, because I can do the wrong thing. Please ask me a specific question, I come and answer a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u198	I asked him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u199	And I answered you. If you want something to expand or beyond...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u200	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u201	...and numbers, please ask a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u202	Mr. Minister, Mr. Kirilov, don't engage in dialogue like this. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Radoslav Stoychev and is about establishing the state of travel conditions and engaging the Ministry of Interior to remedy the identified shortcomings. Here you go, Mr. Stoychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The reason for my question is that lately problematic and conflicting areas have been observed on the entire road infrastructure network in the country. The same areas lead to road accidents, which in not few cases also have a fatal end. The employees of the Ministry of Interior from Road Control have been replaced with functions and responsibilities under Instruction No 8121z-749 as of 2014. I'm quoting art. 80, para. 2 of this Instruction, where it says that: The employee performing traffic control is required to: 8. monitor the state of the roads, road facilities and signalling, and take measures and make proposals to remedy detected irregularities; 9. ensure compliance with the time-limits and signalling of construction works on roads and streets and prevent obstacles from being placed on the canvas which hinder the movement of road vehicles; 10. monitor the timely and qualitative cleaning and handling of roads under winter conditions. In this regard, I ask you the following: how does the Ministry of Interior carry out its tasks to control the state of the road conditions under organisation and control of road traffic and what is the mechanism for sending an alert to remedy the deficiencies found? How many signals have been sent by the Ministry of Interior for 2017 and what is the subsequent control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u204	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Stoychev, according to art. 165, para. 1, t. 3, Chapter 5 - Rights and obligations of the control services and of the Road Traffic Act, the Minister of Interior shall designate the services that monitor the state of the road and the travel accessories. The same shall issue written warnings, alert letters or orders to the owners or administration managing the road, or the company supporting the road section, for the removal and identification of malfunctions thereof. That's the legal framework. Every day, when conducting the instructions of replacement workers, tasks shall be placed to control the state of the road load, horizontal, vertical, road signalling including. In the case of route patrols and irregularities detected, it shall be reported in a timely manner to the operational duty units of the territory and alert letters shall be drawn up to the road owners which I have listed them. Following signals received from citizens, police officers shall secure the road section and take action to notify the competent services. This is the technology you asked about. The Ministry's staff shall supervise sections of the road network where a temporary movement organisation is established. A temporary change in the organisation of the movement may be introduced in case of sudden occurrence of traffic hazard, emergency restoration of road obstacles, snowing, i.e. i.e. ice or road accidents, and immediate notification of the owner or administration managing the road. In accordance with art. 66, para. 3 of the Ministry of Interior Act after having been notified in writing the competent authorities or organisations are required to take measures to remedy and identify the deficiencies and to notify the police authorities of the marks taken. The second part of your question. In 2017, the employees of the Ministry of Interior prepared 2390 written prescriptions, about 40 "50" are received per week, written prescriptions for removing the identified deficiencies on the Republican and municipal road networks, which are addressed to the owners or administration that administers the road. Half of them are met immediately... within the time limit specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoychev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Interior makes periodic reports on the events carried out in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, but these reports are not made available to the public. There is no publicity of these reports and possibly the findings that are in them. Therefore, the public, since there is no such information about the activities of the traffic and activity control services, also falls under the trust of those authorities. I hope and believe that, with your assistance, this control of the state of the road infrastructure network in the country will be strengthened in order to improve safety and thus improve and strengthen the trust of the authorities and the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u208	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoychev! Here you're absolutely right, I even asked the rest of you who don't know if they're satisfied or not, to refer me to them. But I fully agree with this publicity. It's never been done before, I suppose, since you've witnessed it, too. I have not checked it, but if there is no such publicity, I agree, it is good to have, although it also concerns other departments, but at least this part.............................. and where they are met, it is certainly very useful for the individual municipalities, settlements.... to know what they are fulfilled. I agree, I accept, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Tsvetan Topchiev and is on the countering and prevention of conventional crime. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Topchiev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The Programme of the Government in Priority 17 is written: An improved coordinated response to and prevention of conventional crime. Conventional or domestic crime is a scourge for small and medium-sized settlements, and in this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: has a personnel resource been reassigned to increase the presence of uniformed police personnel in small and medium-sized settlements? How many and in what settlements? Is there a permanent coverage of municipalities with video surveillance of major arteries with criminogenic potential according to pre-set criteria and prescriptions by the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u212	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! In accordance with my order of the sixth month 2017 are established Rules for Public Order Protection and Counteraction of Conventional Crime in settlements where there is no permanent police presence, as is your interest. The introduction of these rules establishes an organization for effective protection of public order and countering this crime. In order to increase the presence of police in small towns, the directors of the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall conduct monthly analysis of the situation of the operational situation, the state of public order and the fight against crime of each regional government. On the basis of the conclusions reached and in the event of a deterioration of the situation of the operational situation and its indicators, plans and special police operations shall be developed and carried out. In carrying out these special police operations, the directors of both Sofia and the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior shall reassign the forces and funds of the Ministry of Interior, the road, the Criminal Police and shall redirect them where they are more needed and the situation has changed. When there is a shortage of forces and funds in a regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, it is assisted by the Directorate of Gendarmerie. In connection with the construction of video surveillance systems in settlements with a ministerial order from April 2016 there have been established guidelines, as you said, for setting the locations for building video surveillance systems and minimum functional technical requirements for systems. These guidelines, this document, aim to create an organisation and identify locations for the deployment of systems by setting out "focusary', so-called points which, within the meaning of these guidelines, represent vulnerable public places and facilities, places for the presence of increased criminogenic environments, intersections, high road arteries and concentration of road accidents, and others. The Ministry of Interior has made a written proposal to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to use the guidelines in this document as requirements and criteria for assessing the projects of municipalities. In implementation of the established guidelines of this document, meetings were held between the representatives of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities. In the country on the territory of the structures of the Ministry of Interior in the course of their activities are expressed opinions and recommendations and prescriptions are given for the use of these video surveillance systems in order to ensure prevention of crime in particular. From the presented information from the regional structures of the Ministry of Interior it was found that in 165 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria there are built video surveillance systems covering the entrance and exit arteries, intersections, major roads, places with increased criminogenic environment. The systems are built at different times, and for some of them it is intended to update and expand the scope. In addition, in 18 municipalities at different stages projects are being implemented at the moment, for video surveillance. The structures of the Ministry and the municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of concluded cooperation and interaction agreements provide connectivity to some of these built video surveillance systems in order to protect public order, counter crime, secure the security of citizens in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u215	Dear Minister, I cannot be pleased with your answer. You once again abdicate from your commitments through this answer you gave me. In priority 17, Title 50, measure 192 is recorded: When allocating personnel resources in order to increase the presence of uniformed police units in small and medium-sized settlements by appointing at least 1000 uniformed police and gendarmerie officers. In your election campaign, you promised to have a police officer in every settlement for this purpose........................ and countering conventional crime. You've been abdicated on this, and then you're gonna assign post patrols for which there's no gas, and then through the Private Security Act, you're transferring all this to private security. Once again, you say you abdicate from your promises. This is what our constituents see and they will certainly say their word in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u216	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Hole, Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! I'll read you the questions this time. First of all, you asked me two questions. I chose for the time you gave me to respond to one of them. The first question is: Has the personnel resources been distributed to increase the presence of uniformed police personnel in small and medium-sized settlements, how many and what settlements?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u218	You didn't tell us anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u219	To the second question: Was there a coverage achieved by municipalities with video surveillance and major arteries with criminogenic potential according to pre-set criteria, and the companies of the Ministry of Interior?- I answered you verbatimly, and what is there, where and what is done. On the first question at this time, I will try to answer you, but I ask you to ask one question. It's actually a matter of the Presidency, and it's not yours. Thank you for the opportunity to read what is written in the program, because this is being abused very much. "Police presence in every locality" I quote verbatim about the government's programme and means: "Territorial redistribution of the personnel resource in order to increase the uniformed police staff reassigned to small and medium-sized settlements by employing at least 1000 uniformed police or gendarmerie officers. Up to now, 1342 have been assigned!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u220	You're lying! You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u221	Please, Mr. Yankov, don't insult the Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u222	They must have left about 300 of them. I'm only responsible for the time from May 5th to New Year's, not less, and we've appointed more. That's the reference, and that's the truth, and I'm answering that question. On the part of the question: Where are they addressed?..................................................................................................... There are mobile groups, they move to cover all 5256 settlements, so are the settlements of which 4999 are villages. That's what we do, that's what the program says. I say to you from this tribune that this has been fulfilled in this way, which I report to you.. 1342 people have been appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev concerning the police department. Here you go, Mr. Stoychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers, Mr. Radev! After meeting with the mayor of Botevgrad Mr. Gavalugov, a colleague of mine and I were familiar with the problems related to the Regional Police Administration, namely the serious reduction of the numerical composition in the structure of the Regional Police Administration in Botevgrad over the last few years from about 120 employees to 60 "65" at the moment. The territory of Botevgrad municipality, which includes the city and 13 other settlements, is covered during the bright part of the day by two patrol pairs, and through the dark of one that should cover except the territory of the city, and all the settlements of the municipality. The proximity of the municipality to the capital requires that during major events and significant events additional employees from the composition of the Regional Police Administration in Botevgrad should be seconded, which also leads to further stripping of the security forces in the municipality. After leaving, retiring, as well as the transfer and secondment of the members of the police station in Botevgrad in other areas of the country, their states have been shut down and abbreviated. All these findings with regard to the structure and composition of the employees in the Regional Police Administration in Botevgrad lead to a worrying trend regarding the security and countering of crime on the territory of Botevgrad municipality. With regard to the information thus presented, we ask you the following: what did the gradual reduction of the state staff of the Botevgrad District Police Department by closing the number of persons who left and retired, with the apparently insufficient number for the performance of the public policy tasks and other obligations arising from the Ministry of Interior Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u225	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoychev, according to a ministerial order to confirm the state of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Sofia from February 2015 and then amended, in the state of the Ministry of Interior Regional Management, 64 state figures are included, of which 20 state figures are for civil servants with higher education, 39 state figures for civil servants with secondary education and 5 state numbers for employees of employment. As of January 30, 2018, the vacant stats in the Botevgrad District Department were 15 and six state numbers were available for more than six months. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. In the period 2015-2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There are already 64 of them now, In accordance with the requirements for carrying out the state number of the Ministry of Interior, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry, from 2013 to 2015 the following positions have been reduced from the State of Botevgrad: 2013. "4" is described exactly what; 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 6 more. In 2014 the service relationship was terminated on the basis of art. 245, para. 1, t. 13 of the Ministry of Interior Act upon acquisition, as I said, the right to a pension under the conditions of art. 69 of the Code on Social Security and at the initiative of the Authority, appointing 5 additional staff in 2014. In 2015 another 8 employees were retired in the same way. In 2015, no changes were made to the state number of the Regional Government in Botevgrad and no state figures were shortened. During the next three years, two competitions took place and three employees of junior executive positions were appointed. At the present moment there is also a competition procedure in which a participant is ranked for the Regional Management in Botevgrad and has reached the procedure. The management of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Sofia, which also belongs to Botevgrad, takes the necessary measures to ensure the security of citizens in the municipality of Botevgrad. An organization has also been established for the secondment of employees from the nearby districts, and if necessary the assistance of the gendarmerie including the National Police and the Sofia Directorate is sought if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u228	Dear Minister, without any reason since our entry into the European Union, you have reduced the number of border police officers by 10,000 halves. By the same model you close numbers and reduce the state composition in all structures of the Ministry of Interior, and also maintain a high norm. In this way you reduce the capacity of the Ministry of Interior and reach the current state of failure to control domestic crime, to ensure the security of citizens and their property. The example of Botevgrad and the lack of insufficient number of police officers is not isolated. I urge you to organise the work in the Ministry of Interior quickly, to secure the required number of uniformed police officers, so that the Ministry of Interior will carry out its duties under Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u229	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Will you use the right to the back? Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kirilov! That's the question from both of you with Mr. Stoychev. I don't know why you went to Border Patrol and made such a generalization? Carefully and very politically distantly, I announced when these numbers were reduced. If you want, I'll stress to you who was in power then, who is the minister, who is the government, why they were made redundant. Ask them, they're from you. Don't force me to go through the political part. You're asking me a specific question. I'm answering. If you haven't heard, 2013 and 2014 [[noise and cue]] If you didn't hear that, then they were made. Mr. Yankov sits next to you, ask him when the big cuts were made...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u231	You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u232	I'd like you to stay out of dialogue. Please, Mr. Minister, Mr. Iankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u233	...at the Ministry of Interior. Please, if you want that information, I'll give it to you. Don't make such political generalizations! It's not true at all what you're saying. What kind of malfunction is there right now, you know? I've just reported on another matter that we've assigned the number 1342. When did this happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u234	You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u235	Five thousand is currently a non-completion. What was it, you know, a year ago, two years ago, three years ago, in your management? Deal with this information and don't force me to speak politically. I'm answering you, I'm trying to be correct, and I'm trying to answer your question specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The inquiry to Minister Radev is from the MP Krasimir Yankov and is about the organization of the activities of the Ministry of Interior for territorial service of the population. Here you are, Mr. Yankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as you know, the order to carry out the activities in the Ministry of Interior for the territorial service of the population of the police authorities by the territorial police in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior is determined by instructions. It lists the tasks of police and junior police inspectors, the organisation of their work, the management and control of their activities and how their activities are taken into account. The Directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior or their alternates shall designate the areas and areas of service by police and junior police inspectors. What is the analysis for 2017 in relation to the work of district inspectors and junior district inspectors? What will be the policy for 2018 of the Ministry of Interior regarding the territorial service of the population by the police authorities? Do you think that a change is necessary in the organisation of the work of police and junior police inspectors, such as tasks, accountability, control and zoning?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u238	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, police and junior police inspectors are oriented towards the needs of citizens. This gives them huge opportunities in protecting public order and combating crime, as they have daily contact with society. They're closest to him. The basis of their functional duties is the knowledge of the specifics of the serviced area, problems concerning public order, settlement, vulnerable places for committing crimes, including the demographic structure of the population and a number of others. The activities of the territorial police police authorities are bound by numerous laws and regulations. There are different instructions that you mentioned. Different control powers have been established as well as assistance to other state bodies, organisations and citizens in the exercise of their rights and legal interests. The purpose of the protection of public order can be to control and limit crime, increase personal security, protect personal, private and state property, protect citizens' legal rights and interests, take preventive measures against vulnerable places of public order and risk social groups of society. Police and junior police inspectors are closest to the needs of the population. They know the operational situation extremely well and are practically the Ministry of Interior in the areas or microregions they serve. Therefore, the appropriate arrangement of forces and funds, as well as the effective control of their activities, is essential to the overall work of the police authorities and is consistent with the changes that are taking place in this environment. It changes the environment, we change what you ask. If it's changed, then we change. The policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding the territorial service of the population by the police authorities in 2018, which you ask for, will be primarily aimed at protecting public order and combating crime, as well as in fulfilling the objectives of the Ministry of Interior in 2018. I believe that at present there is no need for a change in the organisation of the work, to emphasise, in the organisation of the work of police and junior police inspectors with regard to the regulations concerning the territorial service of the population, the police authorities of the territorial police and the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior. There will be other changes and they will follow changes in the environment of security, demographic changes and other changes in the country's regions, if they have occurred so far, or will occur in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor to ask two supplementary questions. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u241	Dear Minister! At the meeting that we held with you and the Chief Prosecutor in the Commission, when I raised the issue of district inspectors and in general about police presence in small towns, I was parched with the argument that the gendarmerie is growing in the security of settlements. You didn't take any attitude and it's probably your concept as well. Reaction to accidents, not systematic work on preventing and neutralising criminogenic processes with pre-emptive actions. First supplementary question. Is that why the function and availability of the regional inspector's figure is not a significant structural unit in the Ministry of Interior system, according to the political leadership at the moment? Is that why he, the district inspector or the junior inspector, served subpoenas or responded to complaints and turned into a post office and coordination service? The Bulgarian model is again not leading in your structural models, but this has hardly reached the necessary depth of the analysis due to the recent entry into the work of your entrusted office. The low level of crime 30 years ago is not only a result of the public system, but also of the organization in the work of the Ministry of Interior, where the function of the district supervisor is particularly essential. Even the name itself contains its official characteristics. That's why it's the second supplementary question: who's in charge of the neighborhood now? Is there the current district inspector in the spirit of the traditions of the work of the Ministry of Interior as responsible for the territory he serves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u242	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, first of all, I wasn't on the commission when he was the Attorney General. I guess they were my colleagues, you're confusing me. I've never answered such a question. The district inspector. I don't know why you mentioned 30 years ago, and you're taking us back so much, and what nostalgic you're feeling right now? I don't agree that crime was smaller back then. I don't want to get into that kind of reasoning at all. If you have any nostalgics that something has to come back, bring it back. Currently with your vote we are members of the European Union, since 2004 Bulgaria is a member of NATO, we have Euro-Atlantic values. There's no socialism here right now, there's no communism, there's no such thing as you've seen 30 years ago for district inspectors. I told you what the positions are and I read them to you. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] This is what we do and compare ourselves to European countries. Don't take me back. I won't be able to answer that by comparing what was 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u244	Study the materials and you'll understand why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yankov, you have a say in the matter of questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u246	Dear Minister, take a look! The failure of the reform in the Ministry of Interior began also with Minister Vuchkov. As a result of the demotivation of the composition, a sharp decline in the authority of the profession. The police profession is no longer prestigious. The Ministry of Interior should compete with the footage business. A decline in authority and a lack of confidence in the population. People don't give signals or statements of crime, they don't see the point, they don't get the result. No response to an alert. The failure of the reform is accompanied by a lack of vision for the development of this part of the sector. To top it off, the minister does not like his employees or military concepts: the military chief does not like his army. Of course, I'm not attacking the police. The employees of the Ministry are performers. It's the head of the Ministry of the Interior's fault. For prevention in the Ministry of Interior, which should be a priority of chaos, many programs, national with more than 100 measures, formal contracts with municipalities, fairy tales, fairy tales, reports of work done without any result. The base of the pyramid is the district inspector, but it has received information from the employees themselves, Mr. Minister, I pay attention to you, over 300, even more than 312 tasks. In this situation, there is no point in exerting itself, even if there is a desire. In the past, and therefore I urge you to examine how the Ministry of Interior worked, there was a minister's instructions: a district inspector to serve 5,000 people and he was assigned executable tasks. Otherwise, there'll be more cases with six or more dead and a perpetrator living half-legally because he's hiding and no one's looking for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u247	There were 32 abductees in your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u248	At the moment, the district inspector is not familiar with the risk groups, who have come out of prison, who are going to prison, who are unemployed by profession, etc. Everything you explain is not being implemented. It's in the instructions, it's in the programming documents, but it's not being implemented. Regional inspectors are turned into officials from files and paper processing do not raise their head from the desk. We need to review the areas. I call on you, and I will not stop calling you if I have to, annually and more often, and with a view to changing the security environment, to make changes in the service of depopulated territories, etc. For all of this, the nature of the work needs understanding. You, Mr. Minister, do not meet the requirement of competence for the position being held, and I am telling you this most responsiblely. It's a pretty overwhelming problem, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u249	Please, Mr. Iankov, don't give an evaluation from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u250	...by resigning and choosing a professional is a solution. I call on you: don't wait for a scandal like your colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u251	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Dear Minister, thank you for your participation in today's control. Question to Mr. Boyl Banov "Made Minister of Culture," from the National Representative Veska Nencheva about the Chitalishta activity in the village of Karavelovo, Karlovo municipality. Please come in and ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u252	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, Chitalishte activity is unique and unique in the world Bulgarian form of social communication and cultural exchange. Especially well-developed and long-standing she is in the Karlov region. The activity of the people of the village of Karavelovo is one of the examples of this. Traditions and attitude towards activity are transmitted from generation to generation. The village has one of the best Chitalishte bases for our country. This is Cultural House, village of Karavelovo. Unfortunately, it is not fully used. During a meeting with the villagers, the question was once again raised that the building of the Chitalishte and the library are constantly closed, access is obstructed and no activity is carried out. My question to you is: what are the reasons why the building of the Chitalishte does not function fully and adequately to its purpose? The Chitalishtes listed in the public register at the Ministry of Culture in the village of Karavelovo do they operate and what is its current state? When will the conditions for normal rhythm of the Chitalishte activity in the village be restored? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u253	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Nencheva, in answer to your question, I will inform you of the following. It is apparent from the public register of Chitalishtes that two Chitalishtes were registered in the territory of the village of Karavelovovo, municipality of Karlovo: People's Chitalishte According to data from the same register only one of them operates. The Chitalishte has a base provided by the municipality. The base is public municipal property, which implies the municipality to provide care for its maintenance. They work at the community center: an authentic folklore group, a folklore group, a children's vocal group for folk songs and a group for old urban songs. The Chitalishte is actively involved in organizing holidays, festivals, gatherings, exhibitions, creative dinners, various village initiatives and sports activities. The existing library collection is not listed in the Register of Public Libraries. It is necessary to note that under the current legislation the Chitalishtes are traditional self-governing Bulgarian cultural and enlightened associations, non-profit legal entities with their management and control bodies. The Ministry of Culture has no authority to directly interfere with their internal and organizational lives. This is within the competence of the General Assembly, in which are members of the locality, empathetic to the activities and functioning of the Chitalishte. At present, there has been no letter in the Ministry of Culture concerning problems leading to incomplete functioning of the Chitalishte. In view of your concerns, the Ministry of Culture is prepared according to its powers and in the event of an alert to check the reasons that led to a violation of the rhythm of cultural life in the village of Karavelovo. The law gives the mayors of municipalities the right to observe the activities of the community community centers. On this basis, the alerts for verification shall be referred to the relevant municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u255	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u256	Madam President, colleagues! Minister, I expected to hear such an answer. Such a response was expected by people who were directly affected by the inability to enter the Chitalishte building in the village of Karavelovo. It is clear to everyone that the reference is visible in the Register. It is clear to everyone the activity that can be observed as carried out by the Chitalishte community. I thought you were going to tell me that the city is in charge of all this and is very responsible. However, since there are concerns on the part of the people, I mentioned that in another meeting they share the inability to visit and enter the building of the Chitalishte, and this required my questioning, I wish we could invoke the Law on People's Chitalishtes, in which art. 4b states that: The Minister of Culture contributes to the development of the Chitalishte case, supports and supports the Chitalishtes by providing methodological assistance in their activities, analyzes their situation and activities with the help of the district and municipal. Further in the Law we read things that you also know that the Minister of Culture may register violations and what he should do as an activity is that he sums up this information annually and supports the activities of the Chitalishtes. If you think a specific signal is needed, I can now give it to you to pay attention to the methodological support of the people in the community center. I have already mentioned that they have a very well-developed activity. Let's start by visiting one of the events they're doing. You can have an invitation made to help them methodically to solve this problem, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u257	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u258	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Nencheva, if you have a signal, please give it to me. Within the limits of our powers, we will do everything necessary to establish the relevant situation and to take measures, if there is a problem, to resolve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u259	Allow me to thank Minister Boyl Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We address the questions asked to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. The first question is asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the recommendation of the Council of the European Union on Bulgaria's National Reform Programme for 2017 from 11 July 2017 in the part of the High proportion of people living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u260	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, I hope we do not argue with you about whether our country is leading the negative rankings of the European Union by the proportion of people living at risk of poverty and social exclusion, as well as those experiencing severe material deprivation, because this is an undeniable fact. There is no way to close our eyes and not see that inequalities lead to huge problems throughout society - marginalization, extremism. Whole layers of the population are pushed to the edge of society and thus take less part in economic and social life. In developed countries where a serious social security system exists and operates, the consequences of inequalities and marginalisation are not so pronounced, but in many third world countries it ends for those affected with sickness or starvation. What world do we live in, though, is unclear. It is not clear, but Ginny's coefficient, which is used to illustrate income inequality, clearly shows an increase from 33,2% in 2010 to 37,7% in 2016. In a nutshell. Over the past 10 years there has been an increase in the income inequality of poverty and the risk of poverty, and you see, we do not know these things and Europe has found that Bulgaria is still the poorest country in the European Union, as disadvantaged groups, such as Roma, children, elderly people and living in rural areas, are disproportionately affected by poverty, that the level of risk of poverty for elderly people has deteriorated significantly in recent years, income inequality represents a significant and growing problem, that the ratio between incomes of the richest 20% of households and the poorest 20% has increased from 6.1 in 2012, to 7.1 in 2015 and is among the biggest in the European Union, that in Bulgaria the difference between income inequality before and after tax and social transfers is among the smallest in the European Union, is among the smallest, that the level of guaranteed minimum income has not been updated since 2009 and although it has risen from 65 levs. £75. it is still at extremely low levels that guarantee no one anything and there is no transparent mechanism for determining and correcting it, and it recommends us to fix these things. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The question is: how are these recommendations reflected in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 and do you believe that the planned minimal change in the guaranteed income will have any tangible effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u261	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister Petkov, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u262	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! A key priority in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is the implementation of a consistent approach in the development and implementation of measures and policies with guaranteed sustainability aimed at increasing the main and permanent incomes of Bulgarian citizens. In this respect, the increase by more than 15% of the guaranteed minimum income in 2018 compared to 2017. As you have noted, it has not been changed since 2008, is an important step towards achieving the objectives of these policies. The guaranteed minimum income is an important estimate which is a key element of the social support system. It is the basis for determining the access limit. It also depends on the amount of various social benefits, including monthly social benefits, integration supplements under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, aid under the Child Protection Act, social pensions. With the implementation of this measure, it is expected that under equal and other conditions the scope of the aid will be extended and the amount of aid to be increased. This is also in line with the recommendation given by the Council of the European Union on Bulgaria's National Reform Programme for 2017 from 11 July, in the part of the high proportion of people living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. It should be noted that although it appears not so significant in nominal terms, this increase is economically justified and financially insured. I'd say it's significant, but of course it's not enough. However, this relative increase compared to the increase of the minimum wage and pensions is ahead, thereby minimizing the risk of dropping out of the support system for persons whose material condition does not yet allow them to be removed from the risk groups. As a result of this measure, under equal conditions, the following positive effects are expected and actually occur: an increase of more than 15% of monthly social integration supplements under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and Aids under the Child Protection Act; an increase in the amount of monthly social benefits depending on the specific configuration of the beneficiary, which can also reach 15%; an increase in one-off social assistance by more than 15%, as well as assistance for issuing an identity card by more than 15% under the Social Assistance Act; an extension of more than 5% to the scope of monthly benefits supported, targeted heating aid, targeted aid for the rental of municipal housing; and extension of access to social pensions. On the other hand, the poverty line is an instrument designed to ensure that minimum living needs, such as calorie intake and consumption structure of food and non-food goods and services are met. In 2018, it rose by 2.2% from 3.14 to 321 BGN. The amount to be reported in this column is the amount to be reported in column 010 of the CR SA template. The amount of poverty line also ensures that poor households are able to meet minimum living needs, and its update serves each year to better aim, to formulate social policies, to implement them, as well as to assess the outcome in the field of living standards and quality of life for people. It is important to note that when assessing minimum income, the assessment is made through the prism of the effects on poverty. An objective assessment can only be obtained on the basis of a complex analysis of the aids that people receive under all laws. I also mean the Family Aid Act for Children, the Child Protection Act, the Law for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, as well as social services, benefits and others, which in their entirety reflect compliance with the minimum income principle. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry about the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u263	In the back, you'll have a chance to move on. Thank you, Minister Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. You have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. I do not want to be in your shoes because it is not easy to be a Minister of Labour and Social Policy in the right government, conducting neoliberal politics. And now I'm going to tell you exactly what Europe is recommending by text. Recommends Bulgaria to take the following actions in 2017 and 2018: To improve the direction of active employment policies and integration between employment services and social services for disadvantaged groups; to increase the provision of quality general education for Roma in particular; to increase the coverage of health insurance and to reduce direct payments by patients and to address the shortage of health professionals; in consultation with social partners to establish a transparent mechanism for determining minimum wage; to improve the scope, adequacy of guaranteed minimum income. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'll start one at a time. How, for example, have we directed active employment policies and integration between employment services and social services, and in the National Employment Action Plan in the last 10 years, come on, there are not so many, 7 years, the money is the same, the minimum wage is increased, that is, people are reduced, education and qualification courses are increased, and the money for these things is the same, that is, we reduce the people we can involve in employment or training? To increase the provision of quality general education for Roma in particular. It's not your fault here, even though this mechanism was interinstitutional. He's violent to bring the kids home so we can take them back to school. We will not bring the children back to the schools with the police, but we will only return them if we provide their families with adequate assistance for this purpose. I see that my time is running out and I am not going to go on about, for example, the minimum wage that you promised and I had such a question at the beginning of the mandate to reach a mechanism agreement with the social partners. I don't see that mechanism. For the adequacy of the minimum income, Mr. Minister, I thank you for the answer, because most of it was linked to this guaranteed minimum income. But if you think it's £75. We're not funny in people's eyes, we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u265	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are for the coat, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, you have actually extended the question by listing all the specific recommendations in the report which Bulgaria received and some of them are not within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and I suppose you do not expect me to take the attitude. I took the liberty of asking for this right to specify that my response was only with the recommendation relating to extending the scope of the guaranteed minimum income to the minimum income for the population. With regard to the other things you have listed, I would like to point out that in addition to the inter-agency mechanism for returning children to school and their detention, for which also concrete results have been exported from this tribune, this mechanism, as you know, includes social workers who, together with employees from the education system, visit the children's homes and motivate them to return to school. I do not think that the leading issue here is the violence that you have noted, while with legal changes to the regulations, the regulations involved obtaining a lot of social benefits by visiting the school. This is also part of the mechanism. In a nutshell, regarding the first recommendation relating to the labour market, you know very well that there are 73 centres in the system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Assistance, in which employment and social assistance services are jointly established, where employees of the two leading agencies are involved: the Employment Agency and the Social Assistance Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u267	Thank you, Minister Petkov. We continue with a question to you by the MPs "Teodora Halacheva and Petar Vitanov on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Child, 2008 " 2018." Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva, to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u268	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! By decision of the National Assembly of 31 January 2008 adopted a National Strategy for the Child for the period 2008 - 2018. The strategy is a natural continuation of child care reform in the Republic of Bulgaria, which began with the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by Decision of the Grand National Assembly of 11 April 1991, passed through the adoption of the Child Protection Act in 2000 and the establishment of the State Agency for Child Protection. The development of the Strategy included state bodies and institutions, academic community, representatives of civil society in the face of the numerous NGOs working on the problems of children in the country. As a result of their competent efforts, a strategic document has been produced that has been highly appreciated both in the country and by our partners in Europe and throughout the world. At very high international forums, the strategy was set as a good example of an integrated approach in children's policies. It gives an objective picture of the conditions for the development of children in Bulgaria at the time of its adoption, as well as the quality of life and opportunities for their personal development. It identifies specific policies and indicative indicators for their implementation in the period 2008-2018. I will remind the honourable Members only the operational objectives of the document adopted by our predecessors, because I believe that there should be continuity on the subject of the development of our children. The objectives are as follows: reducing child poverty and creating conditions for social inclusion of children; ensuring equal access to quality pre-school education and school education; improving children's health; promoting their participation in the formation and implementation of policies related to their rights and responsibilities; monitoring and analysis of the implementation of the Strategy is entrusted to the State Agency for Child Protection. On the third, sixth and tenth years of its implementation, reports on the analysis of the results achieved under the objectives set should be prepared, so the questioning to you, Mr Petkov, is about the policy of monitoring the implementation of the National Strategy for Child Protection, 2008 - 2018, at what stages is it and with what documents is it accounted for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Minister Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, under the Child Protection Act, the state policy for child protection is implemented on the basis of the National Strategy adopted by the National Assembly for the Child. This Strategy was adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 31 January 2008, as you pointed out, and sets the priority directions and actions to improve the well-being of children in Bulgaria for a period of ten years. It has been developed in accordance with the objectives and principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act. At national level, the overall process related to the development, implementation and reporting of the Strategy is led by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. The President of the State Agency for Child Protection is a specialized body for management, coordination and control in the field of child protection at the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy is one of the bodies for child protection and participates in the conduct of state policy in the area of child protection within its competence. With regard specifically to the question you have asked about the implementation and reporting of the Strategy, it should be borne in mind that under the Child Protection Act, the activities of the implementation of the Strategy are planned in the national programmes adopted by the Council of Ministers annually for child protection. The programmes are an operational document which plans the obligations of all state institutions responsible for protecting the rights of children in the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with their best interest. The evaluation of the implementation of each national programme shall also be carried out annually, taking into account the results achieved in the form of a report adopted by the Council of Ministers. The coordination of the development and reporting of national programmes is also carried out by the State Agency for Child Protection. According to information precisely to the State Agency for Child Protection, two interim assessments of the implementation of the Strategy were carried out in 2011 and 2015. The reports were presented for discussion at the National Council for Child Protection to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. In 2018, an overall assessment of the implementation of the Strategy is to be drawn up within the framework of the Project "Development of effective policies for respect for children's rights and their participation in the decision-making mechanism for forming the state policy aimed at them." This project is of the State Agency for Child Protection and is funded by the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, within its competence, fulfils all the commitments arising from strategic documents in the area of child protection in relation to the deinstitutionalization of child care, the provision of a network of new social services, the development of early intervention services and prevention in a family environment, as well as services for early childhood development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u271	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go. You have the option of two supplementary questions. Mrs. Halacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, despite the existence of the Strategy and a number of programs and documents related to children, the fact is that Bulgaria lacks a targeted investment policy in our children and also in their parents. A number of studies in the country show that investments in children, especially in early childhood development, have a much higher public return than investments in all other areas. The lack of adequate policy for the family is associated with the bad health and educational indicators in our country with the high risk of behavioral and emotional problems, substance abuse, crime, and also has serious social consequences. The institutions have difficulty fulfilling their obligations in key areas and without the leadership will the Bulgarian child cannot become the center of policies with sustainable results. Unfortunately, the problems are very serious. I only give part of them. In 2016 according to data from the National Statistical Institute 31% of children between the ages of zero and seventeen in the Republic of Bulgaria live in poverty. That's 385,000 children, the highest share of poor children reported in the last 9 years. The increase in the indicator compared to the previous year was 6.5 points, or nearly 80 thousand children. Our country is among the countries with high child mortality in Europe, Bulgarian adolescents are at the top of the weekly use of alcohol and cigarettes. These are startling data, and reality confirms them every day, which is why state intervention is urgent and necessary. Of course, there are positive results from the implementation of the Strategy and they must also be taken into account. For example, I consider deinstitutionalization a process that you managed to produce positive results. But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u273	The weather, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u274	... I conclude, the indicative indicators of the Strategy in the field of education, leisure, the development of the child's abilities, I define as insignificant. Therefore, my supplementary question is: as the Strategy expires in 2018, is there working on developing a new common strategy for the child in the period 2018 and beyond?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u276	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, I share your concern about the high level of poverty among children, which requires integrated measures for investments in early childhood development, support for the child in his earliest childhood and his family, with a view to preventing the risks to his development. What I would share as complex measures that are already being taken in this direction are the creation and development of new social services as delegated by the State. These are centers for public support, family-type accommodation, transitional housing "what has been done and continues to be done under the deinstitutionalization of care for children. Accordingly, new services for children licensed in the State Agency for Child Protection, new innovative services for children who are also developing, and measures aimed at children and parents at the earliest age as a continuation of the World Bank project on social inclusion, which I also believe can be considered a successful project. Specifically, the question you asked. In 2018, the 10-year National Strategy for Child Care expires. I believe that there should be preparation for a new strategy and this year one of the tasks that I will focus on the National Council for Child Protection, which is the coordinating body in the policies in which many institutions are involved, is to prepare together with the report and analysis of what has been achieved in the implementation of the current National Strategy, to prepare such a strategic document for a subsequent period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u277	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Please express your attitude towards the response of Minister Biser Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u278	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, colleagues! I share your understanding that the government is planning to develop a continuation of the National Strategy for the Child. The main problem of implementation of the Strategy in the period 2008 - 2018 is perhaps the lack of coordination of different sectoral policies. More than 20 regulatory, sub-normative acts and strategies regulate support for children and family, but they are not integrated. Consider, perhaps, the new strategy to be a strategy for both the child and the family and to be for a period of 5 years, as the dynamics of social conditions are very large and such a time horizon implies effective changes in the strategy. Why the child and the family? Because the family environment is the one that gives the most complete conditions for child development and any care and support for children outside the family environment is simply compensatory. A study conducted by the Institute for Population and Human Studies in 2015 shows that 91% of Bulgarian parents believe that the policy for supporting families is not effective. There are no quality services for children and sufficient resources separated from the state to support the family. We would understand that there is a direct link between these over 250 000 overweight children and the lack of conditions for sports at school, for example, or the relationship between the content of the broadcasts in the media and child aggression. Where is the one-quarter programme for children and family in public media at stake in the Strategy? Why do they, which are financed by the state budget, not implement decisions of the National Assembly? I could continue with the examples, but I would like to point out the most important problem in front of the Bulgarian children and families - it was addressed by the colleague Halacheva, namely their well-being. If it does not improve, all other efforts are doomed to failure. That is why my appeal is that we all work in this direction, because it is only the right one for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u279	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. We are going to the last question for today, and it is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the implementation of a recommendation of the Council of the European Union on the integration of long-term unemployed in the labour market. Here you are, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u280	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, long-term unemployment or the so-called long-term unemployed, as is the term in Bulgarian legislation, represents one of the most serious problems in the labour market. In the European Union as a whole, the number of unemployed people more than one year has increased more than twice since 2007, and long-term unemployed people are already half of all unemployed people in the European Union, which is a problem with serious economic and social consequences. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is no exception. Despite serious differences on this indicator between Member States, we are not one of the good examples. For us, long-term unemployed are a serious challenge to economic growth. Their reduction and reverse integration into the labour market must be a primary task, because long-term unemployment is not only a problem for the unemployed themselves, it is a problem and a challenge for economic growth. As a result, the high risk of social exclusion is poverty, and this leads to a significant increase in social costs and problems for the whole of society. In Bulgaria the relative share of the poor in the employed group is 11.4%, while in the unemployed this share reaches 54.6%. This means that the risk of poverty for the unemployed is nearly five times higher than for the employed. The Council of Europe has therefore issued a recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed people into the labour market, which sets a framework for action in support of permanently unemployed people, and proposes a solution and steps for personalised support aimed at permanently unemployed people returning to the labour market. We can also consider it as part of the development of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The recommendation cannot be a substitute for national economic and social policies aimed at creating new jobs in Member States without which job seekers cannot be reintegrated, but is a useful act and is a step towards achieving the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy and reducing unemployment as a whole. This is why it is important: what actions have been taken by the Bulgarian institutions in view of the high share of the long-term unemployed in Bulgaria, and in particular are the agreements for integration of the labour market of the long-term unemployed in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u281	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The answer is given by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the policy for reducing long-term unemployment is a priority in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The specifics of the majority of long-term unemployed make them one of the most vulnerable groups of unemployed. This requires the implementation of a consistent policy aimed at activating them, including by helping them overcome problems preventing them from working. In this regard, Bulgaria implements the Council of the European Union Recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed persons into the labour market, adopted on 15 February 2016. To improve access to the labour market of long-term unemployed are provided adapted to their needs services for motivation for active behaviour, inclusion in adult training, information and guidance to job vacancies. The aim is to provide quality services for setting up work and reducing the duration of unemployment. The provision of services for the activation of long-term unemployed in the Employment Agency shall be subject to an approach which takes into account the individual needs of persons. In 2017, the individual action plans of more than 87 thousand long-term unemployed persons were updated. Based on an analysis of the reasons for the long period of unemployment and the personal needs of the person, the appropriate services are offered. If necessary, they shall be included individually or grouply in psychological assistance to acquire job search skills, increase self-assessment and overcome personality barriers. Long-term unemployed people can develop their skills to present to an employer by including in job search workshops. Where individual support is aimed at solving a specific case, the Case Manager shall coordinate between the different institutions. Long-term unemployed people are assigned to employment under all the programmes and measures appropriate for them. As a result, in 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 37 017 long-term unemployed have started work and 3,700 of them have acquired key competences or qualifications in professions sought by employers. As a result of a targeted policy for the labour integration of long-term unemployed persons over the last two years, there has been a permanent trend of reduction in the share of the registered long-term unemployed from 44.3% in 2015 to 37.4% in 2017. The absolute number of unemployed persons decreased and in December 2017 they were 74 117 at 139 130 in December 2015. In implementation of the Recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed persons, we have implemented a pilot model for joint service by teams of the Employment Agency and the Agency "Social assistance" of representatives from vulnerable groups, including long-term unemployed. Specialized intermediary services, training and full-time or part-time employment are provided under the Programme for training and employment to long-term unemployed persons for up to 12 months. Under an incentive measure from the Employment Promotion Act, employers are encouraged to employ long-term unemployed for up to one year. The projects implemented jointly with the social partners shall be subject to a comprehensive approach involving the provision of training and employment. In 2017 there was also a pilot programme "Work" under which unemployed persons from municipalities with high unemployment rates recover or acquire labour skills. During this year the activities will be implemented throughout the country, in 193 municipalities with an unemployment rate above the national scheme average. Everything stated unambiguously shows that Bulgaria implements the Recommendation on labour integration of long-term unemployed people. Last but not least are the amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Employment Promotion Act, which regulated the employment integration agreement as part of the individual jobless action plan. The agreement includes the proposal from the Labour Bureau to a long-term unemployed person to use specific intermediary services and to direct services provided by other institutions in order to overcome individual barriers to integration in the labour market. A working group has drawn up a draft agreement which has been endorsed by my order and is already being used by the labour mediators in their work with long-term unemployed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u283	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. It is very thorough. Maybe I should look at the transcript, because it's hard to process what you're saying for a little while. Listening carefully to you, these measures you spoke of, I know them in detail. My question was more focused on the agreement on working integration. I exclude the formal attitude to the agreement on this work integration, which is a written agreement between the registered long-term unemployed person and the Single Contact Point in order to facilitate the transition of that person to employment on the labour market. I would very much like to stress the....... the workers, as far as we can call them the Single Contact Point, have absolutely no guilt and responsibility for this formality. How many opportunities have been developed to be used by intermediaries to support long-term unemployed? Explain to me, then: what should be included in this agreement on working integration, in the package of individual measures, with the entire arsenal of support measures being exhausted within limited frameworks and there are very limited funds? Mediators create and maintain close ties with employers, but what does the state do? The state says to the employers: The State Employment Services are not important. You don't even have to deal with them in any way. You may not announce your vacancies there, even when the market test is being carried out. And employers say, "Why turn to desks when there is no quality labour? " Workman's reaction: In the bureaus there are no quality jobs, why should we register there? The state, with all its actions and policies on employment and unemployment, closes its eyes when employers do not want to give normal salaries to attract labour, do not want to put funds into qualification and requalification. All these actions make it possible to enter low-paid foreign labour even if it is not qualified. How much money is there in the National Employment Action Plan for qualification and requalification of employment? How long will the unemployed go, and how many of them will help to make it permanent in the labour market, outside subsidised employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u285	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would not go into controversy with you with regard to the issues and specific procedures related to the implementation of legislation in the field of employment, because you are part of this system and have applied them for many years. Once again, the agreement on integration into employment of long-term unemployed persons has been established and is already being implemented in practice. That was part of your question. Of course, as an innovation, an analysis of its implementation will be carried out and, if necessary, improvement measures will be taken. You asked a lot of questions that I wouldn't have enough time to answer. In the framework of the National Employment Action Plan, programmes worth 73 million BGN, the amount of employer subsidy for training and employment of long-term unemployed persons is increased. In other words, there has been an attempt in the amount of this amount, which has not been changed in recent years, to set specific priorities, and the leading priority of this year's National Employment Action Plan is investing in training, in qualifications to improve the quality of human capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u287	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. You have the last word for attitude both for the day and for the week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for this answer as well. Yes, the agreement is a fact and is being worked on, applied in practice. However, the problem of long-term unemployed remains worrying. Against the backdrop of the unfavorable demographic situation, amid our ageing labour society, it is difficult to provide social support and pension. It is a crime to afford as a labour market country an army of long-term unemployed. Achievement of the country's sustainable economic development requires a dynamic and flexible labour market and labour mobility to meet the latest challenges in demand for labour. My question to you, Minister, aimed to clarify: was Bulgaria working on the implementation of the European Commission's specific recommendations to our country, with which we are recommended in the field of labour market to strengthen and integrate social services and active employment policies, in particular for the long-term unemployed and young people who do not participate in any form of employment, education or training in the labour market. I can't say we're not working on specific recommendations. I would very much like to say that they produce results and that in your reply I see real practical solutions for realization of the labour market of the unemployed in Bulgaria, but I cannot say it at least because the number of long-term unemployed does not decrease, and the Recommendation is from 2015. These mechanisms, which we have developed in its support and realization, have been implementing them for two or three years now. The participation of employers in the integration process comes to the fore for me. I mentioned to you about the National Employment Action Plan and the need for targeted financial incentives. Once again, I see that I am running out of time and I think that this issue comes to the fore and the desire to ease the regime for foreign labour. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Perhaps we, as responsible politicians, and you, as executives, should organise a special conversation in any form, how we can bring long-term unemployed people back to the labour market in order to benefit from their potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-23.u289	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Special calls can always be made. We would like to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control, which concludes the work for this week. The next meeting will be on Wednesday, 28 February 2018, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
