ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I propose a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for 28 February 2018: "1. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importers are Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018. 2. A bill for ratifying the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the ozone layer. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. 3. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Academy. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018. The first vote was adopted on 8 February 2018. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. He was accepted in the first vote on 2 February 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers are Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov and Dora Yankova on 15 December 2017. He was accepted on the first vote on 24 January 2018. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017. He was accepted in the first vote on 31 January 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 1 March 2018 7. Parliamentary control "Friday, 2 March 2018 at 9.00 p.m. including: 7.1. Debate on asking No 854-05-4 of 31 January 2018 by MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy. 7.2. Answer questions and questions." I put to the vote the so-read draft work programme of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 179 MPs: 120 against 55, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, this government generates instability and a whirlwind of scandals. In a democratic, normal rule of law for such a scandal as CEZ, the government should assume political responsibility. Instead, here, through this megaskandal with CEZ, you are trying to cover up another scandal, a controversial bill. It is expressed in the first paragraph of the Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, an absolutely controversial Bill. You didn't get to see it last week. This week he is the first item in our weekly program. I propose that this bill be removed from the weekly program. Don't go back to a series of scandals. I think you've had enough at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's procedure for dropping item one from today's agenda. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 78, against 95, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was proposed by Mrs. Cornelia Ninova to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov on the sale of the assets of the Czech company CEZ group in Bulgaria. Please, Mr. Stoinev, introduce us to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in view of the scandal that is currently shaking the state, we consider it most normal for the Prime Minister to come here to Parliament and to answer specific questions from the MPs. We are a parliamentary republic and therefore every single parliamentary group has the right to ask questions because if the scandal with CEZ is not a problem for the government, for the people, for the Bulgarian citizens this is a major problem. Let the Prime Minister answer: has the Bulgarian state taken commitments on the deal in question? How are the interests of the people and the state protected in this deal? These are questions that we really need to get an answer to. Moreover, since yesterday the Prime Minister was extremely nervous. So today we want him to answer the questions in a cultural way, namely: I will chase them to the ground. Who's he gonna chase to the ground? Who are Who's shaking the government? We are a country currently President of the Council of the European Union. We believe that the Prime Minister should also come in peace to answer these questions, because indeed the scandal is huge. For this reason, we are calling today, now for the Prime Minister to come and explain and to respond to the fears we have since yesterday, because he is indeed an informed person. To explain who are Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor for a procedure to give back an opinion on what we just heard. On yesterday the Prime Minister came to the National Assembly and deposited the data he had received... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u7	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u8	...from the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. On this basis, it is apparent that colleague Stoinev has thoroughly familiarized himself with the statements. With regard to establishing the facts and circumstances of this transaction, a joint meeting of two committees responsible for the matter is scheduled on the day-to-day day of the meeting of the Committees responsible for Energy and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. On the next day, the members of these committees will be able to put all the questions to all the authorities that will be invited to this hearing in order to identify first person what data they have respectively. Only after that would it make sense that after establishing these facts and circumstances, we would make one comment or another. Regarding the attempts to shake the government, look around yourself, ask yourself and your parliamentary group and the answers are there. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Stoynev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You should have interrupted Mr. Kirilov immediately because he tried to insult the BSP parliamentary group. We would like, Mr. Kirilov, to find out from the Prime Minister the answer to the question of who the gads are. We want to find out who the gads are. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to come here and answer the parliamentary questions. After all, we are a parliamentary republic. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I shall put the proposal to the vote on the basis of art. 113 to include a item on the agenda for hearing the Prime Minister. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 190 MPs: 82, against 98, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u12	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm addressing you, Mrs. Karayancheva! As the first among equals, you must confirm trust in the Bulgarian Parliament, and you have repeatedly reacted when someone has allowed themselves to challenge the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. How can an institution, which, with the vote it has now, be trusted, rejects dealing with the biggest problem?! I expected you personally, Madam President, to support this request. Tell me what should happen in the country, what bigger scandal should happen in order for the Bulgarian Parliament to deal with it?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is in the way of leading Mrs. Karayancheva to disappointment that she once again obeyed the majority. It doesn't suit you, Madam President! Tell me what should happen in the country, what request should I make to you in order for the Prime Minister to come and answer any question? Yesterday he in the corridors of the Bulgarian Parliament said there was a plot and a coup against the government. What more does it take for Mr. Borisov to come here? Leave the CEZ scandal, you obviously don't care there, you can't explain your silence until now and that you're obviously behind this deal, but there's a conspiracy against the government...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u13	Me personally, Mr. Boychev, or...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u14	What else, Mrs. Karayancheva, should happen besides all other scandals and demands?! What can we do to get Mr. Borisov here? [[Noise. Applause by GERB for interruption of speech.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. There has been a procedure for debate on art. 113. [[(Incomes Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov and greets the President with her personal holiday. (Applause)]] There was a procedure for the debate that I put to the vote. Whether I'm voting for the House or against the House, it's a matter of my own choice as a Member of the National Assembly. Colleagues, the view of this House is not to invite the Prime Minister and to hear the relevant competent institutions in the committees tomorrow. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCEEDINGS, No 854-01-8, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Christian Radev Mitev on 19 February 2018. Who will brief us on the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-8, submitted by Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov and Christian Radev Mitev on 19 February 2018. At its meeting held on 21 February 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-8, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Biser Kostadinov, Deputy Director of the Directorate-General of Border Police and Mr. Valcho Cholakov, District Governor of Burgas, Mr. Stanislav Dechev, District Governor of Haskovo, and Mr. Dimitar Ivanov, District Governor of Yambol. The bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who noted that it aims to expand the scope of the provision of art. 13, para. 1, t. 18, excluding from the scope of the Public Procurement Act the contracts for activities related to the maintenance of engineering facilities of an obstacleing type. The proposed Appendix aims to facilitate the maintenance process of the facility and the timely recovery of infringements caused by different types and intensity natural disasters or by the actions of third parties. The temporary obstacle facility is designated as a strategic site with Decree No 236 of 2017 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and its operation is part of the state border protection and security system. Deputy Minister Tsipov and the district governors of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo expressed their support for the submitted bill. People's representatives Philip Popov, Daniel Kirilov, Hamid Hamid, Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov, Yavor Bozhankov and Todor Baychev took part in the discussion. Mr. Popov asked whether the necessary means for annual maintenance of engineering facilities of an obstruction type were assessed. In response Mr. Cholakov pointed out that for Burgas region there is a draft of quantitative value and the estimated value for 127 km is 500 thousand. lv. with VAT included. Mr. Tzipov explained that the need to maintain installed technical facilities, such as cameras and sensors, are not subject to this bill. In response to Mr. Kirilov's question regarding the compensation of the costs incurred by the regional governors due to disasters and accidents, Mr. Tzipov noted that they should comply with their budget and, if necessary, make a request to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Hamid raised a question regarding the rules that will apply to the choice of performer and whether the principles of publicity and competition will be followed. In response, the regional governors indicated that they would examine the technical capabilities of the contractors and request offers to achieve the best possible result for the State. National Representative Krum Zarkov said he would not support the Bill, as he said the Public Procurement Act provides sufficient opportunities for maintenance of the existing engineering impeding facility in case of disasters and accidents. In response to Mr. Milkov's question Mr. Tzipov pointed out that the engineering facility of an obstruction type does not constitute a construction within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 9 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-8, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hristian Radev Mitev on February 19, 2018. Mr. Chairman, I have completed the report, but I am making a procedural proposal to allow the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 113 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tsipov to the Chamber. After the Commission's report, Mr. Mitev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to you the reasons for submitting the Supplement Act to the Public Procurement Act: The decision to build an obstruction facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border was taken in the plan with measures approved by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 November 2013, its aim being to prevent illegal persons crossing the state border and road transport funds. The construction of the first section of the engineering obstruction facility 29 307,5 m long between the Border Pyramid 206 and the Border Pyramid 268, was carried out in 2014 by the engineering units of the Land Forces of the Ministry of Defence for the award by the Ministry of Interior................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By Decree No 55 of 12 March 2015, the Council of Ministers has determined the terms and conditions for awarding the construction of an engineering obstruction facility along the entire Bulgarian-Turkish border. For the purposes of art. 1, para. 2 of the Decree a temporary obstruction facility is a temporarily located facility, artificial obstacles and roads, communications and others. The construction of an engineering obstruction facility along the rest of the Bulgarian-Turkish border was carried out in the period 2015 - 2017 by the district governors of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas. Contractors of the concluded construction contracts shall be obliged to ensure the guarantee maintenance of the facility within five years as required by Art. 2, para. 2 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 55/12 March 2015 At a meeting on 20 April 2016, the 43rd National Assembly adopted an addition to the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...), with which in art. 13, para. 1 is created a new t. 18 with the text: supplies for services, supplies or works concluded by a contracting entity under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1.. 13 and para. 4 t. 1 related to the construction of engineering facilities of obstruction type in order to protect the state border. The order to award the construction of the engineering obstruction facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, as an exception to the Public Procurement Act, helped speed up the deadlines for the construction and implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in the protection of the external borders of the European Union. The built engineering obstruction facility has a significant impact on reducing the migratory pressure on the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2015, attempts were registered by over 95 thousand third-country nationals to cross the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria across the border of the country, which is almost three times more than the same period of 2014. The migration pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border represents 94.4% of the total migration pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2016, attempts were registered by over 42,000 third-country nationals to cross the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria across the country's border, which is a 56% reduction compared to the same in 2015. The migration pressure in 2016 on the Bulgarian-Turkish border represents 96% of the total migration pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. From the beginning of 2017 until 31 December 2017, attempts have been registered by over 8,000 third-country nationals to cross the country's borders. Of them, over 700 people were detained by the Bulgarian border authorities in an attempt to enter the country illegally. The comparison of data for the same period of 2016 shows a decrease of 81% over the current period. The migration pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border represents 86% of the total migration pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. In its nature, the engineering-obstruction facility is part of the system of protection and security of the state border, its construction along the Bulgarian-Turkish border was initiated as an additional measure to control the crisis situation, in the plan of measures approved by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria at the end of 2013 at the most sensitive sections of the border. A specialized police operation on the Bulgarian-Turkish border and in the adjacent section of the border with the Hellenic Republic is being carried out in the area of responsibility of the Border Police Department, where a large number of employees of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence were involved in a long period of time. The construction of the engineering obstruction facility has led to a significant reduction in the number of officers involved in the specialized police operation of the two ministries and, hence, the necessary means of supporting and providing them. In the operation of the built engineering obstruction facility there are numerous cases of compromise of sections of the facility by third parties due to the migration pressure at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The integrity violations of the facility are not the subject of the warranty maintenance because they are the result of deliberate actions. At the same time, continuous recovery of infringements caused by different types and intensity of natural elements is necessary,.. damaged bars from the pressure of the water, truncated waterfalls and others combined with other maintenance activities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those circumstances require the award of specific maintenance activities directly related to the complex measures applied to increase border security and security. It is necessary to implement them within the shortest possible time without unjustified time extensions in order to avoid increasing the risks posed by national security and adequately countering illegal migration. The application of the relevant procedures under the Public Procurement Act would significantly limit the taking of the necessary timely maintenance actions as an essential and urgent measure to preserve the functionality of the facility. By Decree No 236 of 20 October 2017 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to supplement the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 181 of 2009 determining the strategic sites and activities that are relevant for national security, the time-consuming facility is designated as a strategic site according to the List of strategic sites and activities relevant for national security under art. 1, para. 1 of Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers of 20 July 2009. In view of the status of the engineering obstruction facility, in application of the current Public Procurement Act, there is an opportunity to award the maintenance of the constructed engineering obstruction facility under the Ordinance on the criteria and order for determining the existence of essential interests in cases under art. 13, para. 1, t. 13 letters.................................................................................................... 149, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act, which must be protected in the conclusion of a contract for public procurement or in the conduct of a competition for a project (prom., SG No. ...). The implementation of the order for the award of maintenance of the built-in engineering obstruction facility under the Ordinance is not appropriate, as there is no experience under the application of the Ordinance, both by the Ministry of Interior and in particular the Border Police Directorate General and by the district governors of the three districts. If this option is chosen, it will be necessary at regular intervals......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposed supplement to the Public Procurement Act aims to extend the scope of the provision of art. 13, para. 1, t. 18, excluding from the scope of the Public Procurement Act the contracts for activities related to the maintenance of engineering facilities of an obstacleing type. The proposed addition will help facilitate the maintenance and obstruction of the facility's ability and the timely recovery of violations caused by different types and intensity natural elements combined with other maintenance activities, which will directly have a positive impact on the countering and preventing illegal migration pressure at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. I will add to these motives that, indeed and the only thing that we can be blamed for is that this supplement did not do so as early as 2015, when the Supplement to the Public Procurement Act was made and when, in order to respond to the increased migratory pressure, an urgent change was required, precisely in order to speed up the construction of an obstacleing facility. Even then, we should have included this supplement that we are doing today in the Law to protect the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria and to preserve national security. I call on you to support this bill. This is how you vote in favour of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitev, for presenting the bill. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a result of life's circumstances, it turns out that I have been quite closely connected to this fence since before my entry into parliament, but that is another matter. Either way, I'm here to argue and support the proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act. I remember the 43rd National Assembly when February we voted on the first amendment of the Law to ease the construction of the fence and not to waste time on long and possibly contested public procurement. In this House, I now see very few representatives of the opposition, including one of you, the honourable gentlemen of the BSP, speaking at the beginning and said that why we should not go into another scandal. Yes, but that is when you supported it, and that is in the transcripts, in the minutes of the National Assembly there is it, you supported such a change! Yes, you supported her! You all supported her, why?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u21	Because there wouldn't be a fence!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u22	Yes, there wouldn't be a fence, but because the moment was like that then a day passed or was returned 1,000 that and more than 1,000 people. The facts themselves are sufficiently indicative that 2015 has returned about 100,000 people. These are the ones who have been identified. The others haven't been identified, they've passed since, when there's no fence, the security of this entire 230-mile stretch is very difficult. You were responsible then, and I do not see what the change is, since we now want to add, to correct one mistake, as Mr. Mitev said, that support is not included. Why? We already have a fence. There's no refugee rush. No one has passed in the last month, no one has been found to be such a violation, it is right to correct this mistake. Support is also right to enter into the mode in which the fence is, in other words, not in the general legal order, because otherwise a lot of time is wasted for an appeal, and the fence is a facility that has its own life. It's a facility that's constantly exposed to climate, weather, elements and so on. At present we have several places, now I won't tell you how many, where we have centuries-old trees that have fallen and damaged the fence. It's just crazy to make a public procurement. I appeal to you to show the same reason and responsibility and patriotism as you showed in 2015 and to support this change because it is essential for Bulgaria. Why is it necessary? I already think it's unnecessary to argue. Only one last fragment would add that at present of that 160 million. Euros, which were extracted by Prime Minister Borisov from the European Union, have not yet been set up the cameras simply because there is an appeal on the orders. That's when you drive by standard order, that's how it is. I know that this topic will be used for political attacks and campaigning, but still, first of all, I urge you to think about the fact that the facility is waiting, the facility needs maintenance at the moment. So far, it's been nearly 10 months since the fence was complete and built entirely. There were, as you know, violent disasters, there was damage to the fence, and there was footage, and there was video material. You all know that. All these damage to the fence so far has been removed from the companies that built the fence without being paid, in good faith. This can't go on. We must allow for a regular order in which the district managers who own the fence to take immediate action to remove damage and accidents. I know there will be reproaches regarding future corruption. I cannot argue, and I think it is inappropriate to make such insinuations or allegations in the future that there will be corruption. I can tell you that there is no corruption so far. This I can assure you as a person who I have been snug to this fence since the beginning of construction to date. I can assure you that you can be convinced of this by the reports of ADFI, in which there are only five detected violations and the five are related to delays, with a delay in the execution period, but not with detected violations. Moreover, even in places more input materials have been found than should have been on the project. I know you'll be referring to the DANS Report. I can only inform you that unlike ADFIs who have been checking for three months, carrying out checks, going all over the fence, the SANS have not bothered to go even to see where the fence is located. The findings they made are from an office. I can assure you that the findings that are currently the subject of construction are that the fence is given to the Special Prosecutor's Office are not related to its construction. I won't tell you anything else, but you will accept that, you will see that after the investigation and pre-trial proceedings have been completed. With regard to possible reproaches that abuse of maintenance can be committed, in other words, be identified, selected companies of some people or that they will be carried out against increased prices and so on, do not worry. Too much attention is focused on this fence, too much public interest is focused on it. I want to tell you that the work itself will be entrusted by the district governors. The regional governors Valcho Cholakov, Stefan Dichev and Dimitar Ivanov have been doing their duty as regional governors for three years now. They are not of the same political power, ladies and gentlemen. None of them have had two lines written against corruption charges so far. This I think is indicative enough that you have no reason to doubt that in the future these people will carry out some corrupt transactions. [[Applause.]] In this regard, I thank you in advance for voting on these changes. The fence is doing its job. It is essential because if we do not have any significant pressure at the moment, we do not know what will happen tomorrow, but the fence and the roads to it are actually a strategic object for national security and we need to make sure that they are maintained in due time. So far, I would like to stress once again that in the last month, there hasn't been a single pass. Something that we have forgotten a little bit, but in the Strandzha region for the past year there is not a single case of animal diseases such as plague, such as foot-and-mouth disease and so on, and this is also due to the dense blocking of the inability to pass animals from one place to the other. That's what I want to tell you. Thank you for your attention and thank you once again for accepting the Law. [[Applause from OP and GERB. Single bangs on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, in 2015 BSP supported the exclusion from the Public Procurement Act of the construction of the impeding facility, for the more rapid fence. This is because BSP is engaged and will remain committed to this process. However, then, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, we did not know that when we excluded this procedure from public procurement in order to make it faster, this would also be translated into a two-row fence in a single-line, price increase and ultimately of suspicion of crimes that led to a serious investigation of the Special Prosecutor's Office. If so, please do not turn things around that, you see, we are opposed to defending the Bulgarian border. The Bulgarian border can only be protected by compliance with Bulgarian laws. What do you suggest we do today? I assure you that in the current text, without this change, there are every reason to make urgent repairs and other maintenance actions without going through a public procurement. There's a special text in the Law, there's a special regulation in it. But what's the catch? In order to comply with this regulation and to be exempt from the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, you must pass through the Council of Ministers. What you are doing now is to release the Council of Ministers from responsibility, to place this responsibility solely on the regional governors, who, when another scandal happens, because it will obviously be inevitable, to burn like fuses, as we observe is a frequent practice in your management. The fact that the Council of Ministers is running away from responsibility is also visible from the way this bill has been tabled. Why didn't he come from the Council of Ministers? Honor makes you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that you are here and defending him, that you could hide as others do, but the truth is that he is going through MPs on an already tested technique to make it quick and not pass the conciliation procedure. The real purpose of this bill is, in our view, not to facilitate the maintenance of the fence, but to facilitate the concealment of traces which are the subject of an investigation and to continue some vicious practices which are also under investigation. In a more general sense, the Public Procurement Act is beginning to look more and more like Swiss cheese. This procedure was not designed to interfere with the government. It is designed to guarantee citizens transparency and honesty in the spending of these funds, and it makes sense. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Is there a line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u26	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! You have recently implemented this amendment in the Public Procurement Act without having any opinions, without really having an impact assessment and really expressed financial parameters. That is precisely because he was not brought in by the Council of Ministers, which should have taken responsibility for this law, but by MPs. Dear Members of Parliament, this is not about force majeure, for example, natural elements, but about maintenance, expressed in a permanent year-round drainage activity, removal of vegetation and so on. There is now an opportunity in the Law in force major not to pass the procedures of the Law and this is already provided for in the Law itself. I cannot imagine and believe that the importers have pointed out as a motive the lack of experience of the Ministry of Interior and the regional governors to implement the Law, lack of experience in the institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria to observe and apply the Law?! Are you seriously pointing that out as a motive? Obviously, yes, because you presented it in your motives. But the problem is different. The estimated value of 127 km of the fence per year is half a million and that is without force majeure that cannot be predicted. What's it gonna be for 206 kilometers? How will these funds be distributed without a competitive procedure? What checks will be carried out when there will be no basis for comparison? For example, why is Hicks a company chosen for the year-round maintenance of this fence and not Igrek? The objectives of this amendment are at least two: on the one hand, to cover up the fence construction deals, and to continue these deals with maintenance itself. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! There was a crime committed at a high level because the specialized prosecutor [[GERB lines]] has initiated pre-trial proceedings, which means that there is sufficient evidence of a criminal offence that has been involved in the abuse of public funds. However, you introduced this law quickly and urgently, which leads to the conclusion that you do not want transparency, you do not want competition to cover up the deals there and continue. We will not allow this, and I say that we will make proposals between first and second readings on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I am sure that from the very first moment when the building of the fence was started, whether by Construction Forces, whether by the order then adopted, you were aware both you and the people before you who performed these functions, that the fence would be maintained and must be maintained. So I am also perplexed by this recent achievement of the Law on February 19th, we are discussing it today. Under the current Public Procurement Act, there is a order. I say this precisely because I am absolutely patriotic. Order exists and currently the people in charge of the fence to repair it, because the term is to repair it. We'll also get to what support means. The order exists because the amendment in 2016 includes all types of objects under art. 3 of the Public Procurement Act. Any construction, any services and any supplies... this is the text of the article. 18 that already exists. In other words, persons responsible for the fence and for the protection of the country may now carry out the necessary actions. It is extremely unwise to use the word "Support." It can't be any other way, it's quick. "Support" has a legal term "Support" type of current repair. With ongoing repairs you can not perform this said Mr. Mitev, as an importer, and you in your statement, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The current repairs do not imply replacing components from the fence. It's a major renovation. There are no opinions on the bill. In fact, perhaps there is, because Mr. Kirilov showed them in his hands to the Legal Committee, but they were not posted on the National Assembly website. We haven't been familiar with the opinions. The regional governors present to the Legal Commission have not set out any particular reason, a particular case in which the legislation in force is an obstacle. One very large clarification: the current legislation does not mean a long procurement for a month, two, three, six on appeal for the repair of this fence. That's not what it means at all. There is a much easier order, said the colleagues before me, on which the fence can be built and repaired. Only a sanction from the Council of Ministers is required to issue the funds for this. There is no way we can not stop at the fact that the main motive for legislation is the lack of experience to implement a text that importers also admit to having. There's a text about supporting the fence, you quoted it, I don't find it. 13, para. 1, t. 13 letter "g." It sounds complicated, but it does exist, and you point out that a major argument is the lack of experience in the Ministry of Interior and regional governors, colleagues. Once there is an opportunity, I suggest that we give them the opportunity to gain experience and repair the fence where necessary, because the word "support" does not cover major repairs. Another argument. If we include the word "Support" 18, we must include it in other points of the exceptions in the Public Procurement Act, where it is given the opportunity to perform on all types of sites under the Public Procurement Act, namely works, supplies and services, and where there is a construction company, you will also add the word "support." It's a nonsense. Once again, I would like to stress: an investigation is under way for activities covered in the construction of this fence. The adoption of such a text will allow for the creation of ambiguity. For this reason, I believe that we must complete the investigation, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the court to determine who has done what, and we must adhere to the existing law that enables you to repair, maintain, basically repair, currently renovate this fence. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Statements from the other side of the room? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have been listening carefully to her comments for several days. Frankly, I am telling you that we have turned into bomb squads, not us, but you, the ruling MPs, because our job today is to look for and protect ourselves from blowing up another mine. The public procurement law you are proposing is another mine, because it is no different from the scandal with the sale of CEZ. What do I mean? 250 million and more were spent on this fence. The term under which Bulgarian citizens already know her is the Golden Fence. Today we are about to create the gold hole because this change in the Law is nothing but a grand theft. Nothing more! And in the current Public Procurement Act, anyone who deals with it knows very clearly that there are thousands of opportunities in it to elect a contractor for direct negotiation........................................................................................... to make a framework agreement.................................................................................................................................................. Who needs this? The answer is one and it is very simple: right now it is being tried to sanitize itself, to hide, to hide, again I say, a grand theft. That's nothing but to create today so we'll name it the Golden Hole Act because we want to create a huge gold hole. That's the way it is. Please extend the group's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u32	Mr. Vice-President, honourable Members! If this were a one-time act, we could see it as a mistake, but it is actually the vision of the government not only for the fence. We remember that in this National Assembly we voted to drop court institutions, now we vote to drop procedures. I will not exaggerate if I say that the government is in the way of legal order, they are in the way of the rule of law. Yeah, it's easier not to run errands, it's easier to make one-on-one decisions. The common thing between the fence, as the colleague said, and the energy scandal, is, in fact, the attitude of the government towards issues of national security importance. If enough is already spoken about CEZ and there is yet to be talked about, here we have to say the following: the vision of the government is the decisions to be made in the dark and single. What do I mean? I would like to remind you of a statement in the Legal Commission of the Regional Governor of Burgas. Asked by MPs how to guarantee the best quality and the best price, he replied: "I prefer to work with old companies, which I took away from them. Is this the procedure with which we will spend the money of Bulgarian citizens, provided that colleague Milkov made the argument that there is a order to make such decisions at the moment? Is this how we will rule Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any lines to Mr. Bojankov? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Bojankov! Your job today, and not just yours and mine and the talkers, is, "When you sing to me, Penke lee, who listens to you?"I'm amazed at the insanity of the government, of the importers. They don't take a word for it. They remain, they mush and hide themselves only under the motive of the Ministry of Interior incompetence and incompetence of the applicants. Dear! So what do we do? What are we voting for here? What do you appoint regional governors, ministers, deputy ministers and whatever you think of and hide behind their incompetence? Fire them, damn it! Take this subject and stop this law. Mr. Bojankov, you couldn't convince them. Try a little bit more to explain to these people that this law should not be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u36	Line up, guys. While we are doing our best to refrain from unjustified attacks, you obviously need to be answered. There's no point in giving each other false lines. You have plenty of time to object. I don't agree that in silence and in mushing, we have proposed these changes. Colleagues, we spent three hours discussing this bill at the Legal Commission. As Chairman of the Legal Commission, I have provided you with the presence of all three regional governors. You interviewed them, interrogated them as you see fit, so that you could have direct contact with the sources, to the authorities that would apply this law. I think the district governors have convinced you of both the procedural grounds and the logic of the actions they have taken so far. Don't repeat the claim that we said the administration had no experience. I've looked at the motives, I've looked at the evaluation. These are free interpretations and please do not abuse so simple and superficially. If colleagues lack our opinion, I will repeat a great deal of our arguments in the debate of the Legal Committee and in the positions of the regional governors. We have left you to speak for yourself, please do not abuse the truth and the attention of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u38	Dear Mr. Kirilov! Very precisely: We have left you to talk to each other, as you do many times, leaving the opposition to speak for itself. You're deserting the debate! Not just from this debate. Regarding your line, it was not personal to me, you made a replica of four, five people at the same time. Mr. Kirilov, if we go back to the debate in the Legal Commission, I don't think it's in your best interest. I will allow myself to remind you of this: I prefer to work with companies that I have taken away from them! "Is this procedure going to be used to ensure the Bulgarians that their money, our public resources, is being spent in the most optimal way? [[Heckling]] Read it from the transcript if you've forgotten it. I personally consider this way of spending funds and an abnormal attitude towards Bulgaria's national security to be insane. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As it becomes clear, we, from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, will not support this bill as philosophy, ideas and direction because we see absolutely no appropriateness in it. This bill definitely lacks a competitive start and, as is clear from it, interested parties are only the regional governors in the face of the state, and unknown who. I'm saying who's going through a direct negotiation. Under the friendly pretense of national security, we enter a colony with the rest of the legislation and once again we are offered a four-eyed negotiation and creation of a corrupt environment. I have the impression that the current Public Procurement Act and all its regulations rather prevent it than help the implementation and construction of this fence. What do I mean? The Law establishes minimum warranty periods, the duration of which depends on the construction site. For example, as a result of the rapid action to be taken, there was no exquisite guarantee on the ground below the site and we are not pushing it, although this was the reason that there was a fall of the foundation of the obstacleing facility, such as Malko Tarnovo. The participants in the construction process can agree on other deadlines for the construction site concerned in the contract between them, but as we can see in the present case these deadlines are reduced. The most paid money for the fence is on the territory of Burgas region, where contracts for about 108 million were concluded by the summer of 2017. BGN, without any order being carried out, which is why DANS in its report considered that the conditions of control were violated and the prices were increased, as a result of which there was formed and pre-trial proceedings, for which we do not understand why we are pretending that we do not understand what this is about, namely the price at which the army builds the protection facility is of the order of about 250 thousand. lv. It's a linear kilometer away. In both cases, that is, when the army performs the protection facility, and now the contracting authority is the Ministry of Interior. The contracting authority and, accordingly, the structure that manages this facility is still the Ministry of Interior. The project under which the protective facility is implemented is made on the basis of a task of the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the differences in this sense matter, but this is anyway a choice and result of the Ministry of Interior's decision. I seriously doubt that these differences set four times the price per linear kilometer. Of course, this is already a matter to be proved by the D.A. I am interested in why, given that the migratory pressure has fallen, as colleague Mitev said, and now we hear from the Deputy Prime Minister, hopefully this is already leaning towards zero, these extreme measures are being taken? Either the pressure continues or take advantage of the legislation currently in force, namely that when the subject being put into service under the proper order of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 177 of the Law on Construction in the Area, the site is of the first category of national importance.The repair activities should be carried out by the contractor, guaranteeing the quality of the work and the material. Of course, it also transfers us to art. 178: in violation of para. 1 and para. 4 related to the defence and security of the country, the respective minister, in this case the Minister of the Interior, with a motivated order forbids its use or construction of the site, and orders the necessary action to bring it into line. I would like to give you a comparative analysis by giving you two fences: for both fences, the contract was signed on 8 April 2016. Both must prove to be ongoing control in the performance of the contract without preventing the independence of the contractor, but for one fence there is a aggravating condition: Another thing on the two fences: to require from the performer certificates of origin for materials incorporated in the construction.................................................................................................................................................................. In the case of the other fence, the same is used, but with a wishful thinking: the beneficiary to provide the contracting authority. For one fence, there are once again aggravating conditions: the guarantee periods of the renovations carried out are 10 years and begin to run from the day of the signing of the Model 15, while in the second case the guarantee is reduced by 5 years. Just to tell you that the more difficult conditions are naturally not for the fence along the border, but are for a fence which is built along the eastern border of the camping plot of Chaika. As a result of everything listed so far, perhaps our national security is indeed at stake, given the criteria used in the construction of the fence, and even more so now, as we have learned, the State Agency of National Security is not doing its job, doing cabinet investigations, and what is safe in our country at all? Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u41	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Are there any lines to Mr. Baichev? I won't. Statements? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! In relation to the so-made proposal, I was impressed with the motives of this dust in the eyes of the MPs, and through us the statistics you are using to argue the proposal. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 95 thousand citizens pass through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man $8,000. To make it clear to everyone, it is about foreign citizens who are not only crossing the state border, which is protected by security and an engineering obstruction facility, but also through border crossing points. And I pay attention to you that, as of today, and now, the main stream is through these border crossings. And because I am impressed that a representative of the Ministry of Interior is present in this House, but in fact you are defending the proposed bill, even though you are a deputy prime minister responsible for national security and for the Ministry of Interior, your colleague Krasimir Karakachanov, you are not an internal minister, obviously working as a team, and I call on you to pay particular attention to the organisation of the work of border crossing points, where the method of checking on a single line is not applied and there are gaps, and foreign citizens are passing through illegally. Since you have also written in the very motives yourself, honourable fellow importers, that by its nature the engineering and obstruction facility is part of the state border protection and security system, what does it mean to be part of? And how much of it? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have thus passed through the procedure with which the integrated surveillance system for the state border is being built, which is not built, which is the main part guaranteeing and guaranteeing the security of our state border. Again, I call on you, as teamworkers, to personally engage in the construction of this integrated system, when you are concerned about this engineering-obstruction facility, the type of building you are building, so that you do not have any doubt that you are only interested in this obstacleing facility, and you are really interested in protecting the state border. It's about a big perimeter. A smaller part of the state border is built, Mr. Tsvetanov opens it as an interior minister. As far as we are aware of the Minister of Interior's responses, there is a problem with maintaining the built-up part, but keep in mind that it will be puzzling if you suggest and including the construction of the integrated monitoring system to go along this line without public procurement, without having a competition start, because, as you have heard from colleagues, it is extremely disturbing. There is no way you can reassure us and the public that there is no corruption element, that you are not creating a corrupt environment. Moreover, this is a direct hit against the Prime Minister, against Boyko Borisov, as the district governors are appointed by his act. Boyko Borisov personally appoints the district governors. [[Reply from rapporteur Danail Kirilov: "It is done with a decision of the Council of Ministers. "]] It is possible that you recommend them. Do you vouch for them? Boyko Borisov himself makes the proposal for the Council of Ministers. No one objects, and he bears the responsibility that you should not create conditions for the district governors appointed by Boyko Borisov to directly reflect with their actions on his authority. With this corrupt environment with which you give the opportunity, the proposed text gives the opportunity, you or you think it is necessary to open the door without public procurement and in the future to assign and spend public resources, or put watermelon bark on Boyko Borisov. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Is there anyone else who would like to make other speeches? If there are no other speeches, I will close the debate and put to the first vote a bill to supplement the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-8, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev. Please vote. Vote 172 MPs: 103, against 65, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Thank you for participating in the meeting today, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with a second item on the agenda: LAWPROLECTING THE RATEFICING OF THE CHANGES FROM THE MONREAL CIGALS OF THE INGREDIENTS THAT BREAK THE ZONE SLOY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. Report from the Committee on Environment and Waters Mrs. Vasileva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall for Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u45	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, against 4, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Invite Mr. Deputy Minister to enter the room. Please continue with the report, Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, No 802-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. At a meeting held on 22 February 2018, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, No 802-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. The meeting by the Ministry of Environment and Water was attended by: Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister, Georgi Mihailov, Head of the Department of Air Cleanliness and Denitsa Spasova. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, who pointed out that Decision No 84 of 9 February 2018 of the Council of Ministers in the National Assembly was submitted a proposal for ratification of the amendment by Kigali to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer. The Montreal Protocol was ratified by Decree of the Council of State on 17 October 1989 and entered into force on 18 February 1991, with several further ratifications carried out between 1998 and 2002 of the London, Copenhagen, Montreal and Beijing amendments. Mr. Zhivkov noted that during the 28th meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol (Kigali, Rwanda) in October 2016, a decision was adopted to amend the Montreal Protocol (Kigali Amendment), introducing measures to reduce the production and use of certain hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) aimed at limiting the impact of these substances on climate change. The main expected results of the Kigali amendments referred to by Mr Zhivkov are: the gradual reduction in the production and use of certain fluorocarbons in order to limit the impact of these substances on climate change, such as for the Member States of the European Union, including Bulgaria, the reduction must be carried out during the period 2019. By 2036 the reduction in the production and use of fluorocarbons must decrease by 85% compared to their baseline; the introduction of HFC import and export licensing systems; the monitoring and reporting of quantities of hydrocarbons produced and used; the introduction of a ban on the trade in fluorocarbons of all countries which have not ratified the Kigali decisions which will enter into force on 1 January 2033. Mr. Zhivkov pointed out that, with the exception of the trade ban in 2033, the amendments to the Kigali will enter into force from 1 January 2019, as the number of countries that have ratified the amendments exceeds the minimum number that is 20 and the European Union has made it possible for these amendments to be adopted by the Parties by the end of 2018. The European legislation on fluoro-containing greenhouse gases establishes stricter requirements regarding the gradual reduction of hydrocarbon by 2030, as a percentage after 2030, will be analysed Regulation No 517/EU/2014 to take concrete measures to reduce after 2030. The Deputy Minister also pointed out that a competent authority on amendments and decisions by Kigali is the Minister for Environment and Water, not providing for any changes to the national legislation transposing Regulation No 517/2014 and will not affect undertakings, traders, importers, exporters, manufacturers, service technicians, companies as well as equipment operators with the transposition of that Directive. Atanas Kostadinov, who pointed out that the successive, staged and diligent actions of the Ozone Secretariat of UNEP have produced results, countries are already stepping on the mandatory legal framework and these changes need to be supported; Ivelina Vasileva, who noted that the efforts of the organization to the UN have been extremely effective over the years and have already produced a result and such a document will not be supported. She also asked a question about the impact on the business and their opinion, as well as about the financial impact on the membership imports under the Montreal Protocol, which received a response from Mr. Zhivkov; Rumen Georgiev, who asked a question about the inclusion of the topic on the agenda of the European Presidency, which received a response from Mr. Zhivkov, that there are no such commitments, and supplemented by Mr. Mihailov that the majority of the member states have already ratified the amendments; Nikolay Penev asked a question about the commitments on monitoring and control received a response from Mr. Zhivkov. Following the discussion and vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 18 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, No 802-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Who will present the report to the Committee on Foreign Policy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u48	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, No 802-02-5 of 9 February 2018. At its regular meeting on 21 February 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Kigali Amendment Bill on substances submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the ozone layer is an international treaty between 197 countries aimed at preventing the release into the atmosphere of substances that destroy the ozone layer in the stratosphere of the Earth. It was created in 1987 and Bulgaria has been in force since 1991. The National Assembly has ratified the previous amendments made in the minutes. The new amendments to the Protocol of 15 October 2016 were adopted in Kigali, Rwanda, but are scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2019 if at least 20 countries have ratified the amendments at this time. At present, 25 countries have ratified the amendments, of which 7 are Member States of the European Union. The amendments provide for a step-by-step reduction in the production and use of certain hydrofluorocarbons used so far in air conditioning, refrigeration and other technologies. The purpose of the Protocol is to encourage the parties in the production of such equipment to replace these hydrofluorocarbons with other substances which are sparing for the ozone layer. The introduction of licensing regimes for the import and export of such substances is envisaged. As for countries which have not ratified the amendments on 1 January 2033, a ban on trade in such substances by the States Parties to the Agreement shall also be provided for. The United States and the European Union will start implementing these measures from 2019, with the intention of achieving the objectives by 2036. For other developed countries this period will be 2020 For the countries of the European Union, the gradual reduction in production and use of halogenated hydrofluorocarbons is ensured by Regulation (EU) No 517/2014. On the basis of that Regulation, a review of the situation in the Member States of the European Union will be carried out after 2022 and a reduction schedule will be set for 2030. The format and means for submitting the report are laid down by Regulation No 1191/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union and the Implementing Regulation No 2017/1375 for its amendment, respectively. For the Republic of Bulgaria the competent authority for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol is the Ministry of Environment and Water. Ratification of the amendments will not lead to changes in our national legislation, nor will it impose an increase in the administrative burden for its implementation. The ratification of the agreement on amendments to the Protocol is expected to lead to an increase in the membership imports of the Republic of Bulgaria by 15 to 40% compared to membership imports in the period 2015 - 2017. These expenses for Bulgaria will be provided through the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Research into the ozone layer in Earth's stratosphere shows that the so-called ozone holes above the planet's poles are beginning to decline, indicating that the measures taken so far to limit the emissions of gases that destroy the ozone layer have produced results. In the successful implementation of the amendments to the Montreal Kigali Protocol aimed at reducing developing countries by 80% by 2045 and 85% for developed countries by 2036 of such harmful emissions, the forecast is that this will prevent the global temperature of the planet by 0.5 degrees Celsius by 2100. Furthermore, the implementation of these amendments will encourage the deployment of new technologies that will be less energy-intensive and will be more effective than the ones used so far. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted 14 Members of Parliament, without the opposition and the abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances, No 802-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, No 802-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2018. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Law on the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the ozone layer should also be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I don't see any other opinions. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote on the submitted bill. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "The right of ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer. A single member. Ratiated the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, adopted on 15 October 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u53	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the Bill or rather the Law on the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the ozone layer. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Moving on to next point of the program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RURAL ACADEMIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018, adopted at first vote on 8 February 2018. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will present Mrs. Irena Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission to the hall of Professor Vasil Nikolov, Chairman of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u55	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 85 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite Professor Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u56	Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act No 802-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018, adopted at the first vote on 8 February 2018. The Law on the Agricultural Academy is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Agricultural Academy. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u57	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is also supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u58	Under paragraph 1, there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Agricultural Academy is a national autonomous budgetary organisation with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Research Forests for scientific and applied, innovative and educational activities in the field of agriculture and food. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Agricultural Academy is a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia and sets up, implements and reports a budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act. 3. In para. 4. (a) c. 1 the word "subsidy' is replaced by "transfers'; (b) c. 4 Finally, aids and other grants received shall be added. 4. A new para is being created. 5 and para. 6: The beneficiaries who provide grants and funds to the Agricultural Academy shall submit a declaration of origin of the funds under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (6) The budget of the Agricultural Academy and its implementation report shall be adopted by the Management Board. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it after the word "schools" is added "Science organizations."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u60	The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... Article 2 is amended as Art. 2 (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry conducts the policy of the State for the development of research, scientific and applied, experimental and production activities in the field of agriculture and food. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in agreement with the Minister of Education and Science, shall exercise control over the activities of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u62	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 s 4 are amended as follows: The management bodies of the Agricultural Academy shall be: 1. the President; 2. the Management Board. (2) The President of the Agricultural Academy shall be a habilitated person who shall be appointed and released by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (3) The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy: 1. represents the Academy; 2. manage and organize its activities; 3. convene and manage the meetings of the Management Board; 4. implements other powers related to the activities of the Agricultural Academy. (4) The Management Board shall consist of a Chair and 8 members. The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy is also Chairman of the Management Board. Members of the Management Board may be habilitated by the Agricultural Academy.' 2. A new para is being created. 5. The members of the Management Board shall be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a proposal from the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words "the Board of Directors' shall be replaced by "the Director of the Agricultural Academy'. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u63	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the first reading, I paid attention to § 3, para. 2, which worries me that with the so-made change in management, after we remove the so-called foreign representatives from the board, these nine representatives from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the University of Lesotechnics, the Agrania, the Thracian, with these changes, I am worried if we will strengthen the political at the expense of the scientific? In other words, the proposal made in the Committee on Agriculture explained to us that until now the Agricultural Academy was closed, that there were cases where projects with other universities were duplicated, with BAS. I ask: since there have been representatives of these institutions so far, how has there been duplication? Isn't that what these management boards are for to see on a project who will apply, whether they will apply together for a larger scientific project? And with the changes that have been made, on the contrary, it seems to me whether the Agricultural Academy is now shutting down in itself, because how will these eight representatives know in the so-called Management Board, say BAS in the field of agriculture whether it will apply together with the Agricultural Academy, or the Thracian University, or Lesotech? That's my concern, and I hope the coworkers thought about it when they suggested it. Once again, I hope that the political element will not be strengthened, as these eight representatives of the Management Board will also be proposed by the Chair of the Agricultural Academy. So you get a closed circle instead of having a wide discussion by the people who are involved in science in the scientific centers of the country. That's my worry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I'll put two texts to the vote. First text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 3 and which is supported by the Commission, and second text of the version proposed by the Commission in § 3, which becomes § 4. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "Support" is added to the Agricultural Academy. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Consult" is added to the Agricultural Academy. 3. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u67	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 4, which shall become § 5. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the 1. In para. 3 after the word "Supporter" is added to the Agricultural Academy. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Executive Bureau shall continue to perform its functions after the expiry of the Chair's term of office until the appointment of a new management.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 5, which shall become § 6. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u70	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "institutes" is added "Science Centers". 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In order to carry out the experimental, applied and applied activities of the Agricultural Academy, it is established a state enterprise. The company is a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia, with the status of a state enterprise under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The activities of conservation and conservation of cultural and historical heritage in the field of agriculture are carried out by the National Agricultural Museum, which is a legal person of budget support and is headed by a director appointed by the President of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u71	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 6, which shall become § 7. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u72	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Art. 7. The structural units of art. 6, para. 1 shall be run by directors who are habilitated and selected by a contest for a period of 4 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u73	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 7, which shall become § 8. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u74	A proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 9. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words the undertakings in question shall be replaced by the State undertaking; (b) c. 1 after the word 2. They're creating an al. 2.. The State-owned enterprise under para. 1 may also carry out other activities related to or supporting the main subject of activity. The funds and operations of the enterprise shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act and are not part of the state budget. (3) The State enterprise shall have a two-tier structure: 1. central management; 2. Specialized units. (4) The Director of the State Enterprise shall annually draw up and propose to the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy for the establishment of an annual plan for the activity of the enterprise. (5) Specialized units under para. 3, p. 2 on the basis of the established annual plan organize and implement scientific, experimental, demonstration and service activities in cooperation and on a contractual basis with the institutes and scientific centers of the Agricultural Academy. (6) Specialized units under para. 3, p. 2 shall be managed and represented by directors appointed by the Director of the State Enterprise for a period of 4 years. Specialized units: 1. conclude contracts on their own behalf and on their own account within the limits of the powers conferred on them; 2. keep accounts and submit annual financial statements in the central management under the Accounting Act; 3. have bank accounts and their printing; 4. are employers within the meaning of § 1, item 4. 1 of the additional provisions of the Labour Code. (7) The property of the State enterprise consists of property provided by the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, by international institutions, local and foreign natural persons, legal entities and other organisations, as well as property acquired by the company as a result of its activities. (8) The structure, organization and activity of the state enterprise under art. 6, para. 2, as well as the names, seats and areas of activity of its specialized departments shall be determined by the rules of art. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to draw attention once again, as it is sneaking into the scientific circles of the scientific centers, of the experimental stations, of concern for the lands, of the terrains in these experimental stations that are currently uniting. As far as we know, there's an inventory going on right now. I pay attention because here we specifically record that in § 9, para. 2, p. 5 specialized units based on the established annual plan organize or implement scientific, experimental, demonstration and service activities. Do not turn out at some point that some of the experimental stations will not have lands, terrains on which to do these scientific experimental experiments and activities. I therefore draw attention to this fact to carefully monitor these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 8, which shall become § 9. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u78	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words the undertakings in question shall be replaced by the State undertaking; (b) c. 3 the words "state-owned' shall be replaced by "State-owned'. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u79	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 which shall become § 10 with the corresponding version of the Commission Report. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u80	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is replaced by the following: 3 the word "the Academy" is replaced by "The Agricultural Academy."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on § 10, which becomes § 11 in the version of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u82	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. (1) The Management Board of the State Enterprise under art. 6, para. 2 shall consist of three members, including the Director of the enterprise. (2) The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy shall appoint the Director and the members of the Management Board of the State Enterprise and shall conclude management contracts with them under conditions and procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure under art. 8. The management contracts with the members of the Management Board shall be concluded for a period of 4 years. (3) The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy: 1. discharge under management contracts the Director and the members of the Management Board of the State Enterprise; 2. confirm the annual plan of the state enterprise; 3. establish the structure, the official timetable and the salary funds of the state enterprise in accordance with the annual plan; 4. coordinate the annual report of the state enterprise and submit it to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry; 5. propose to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests to take action under art. 6 of the State Property Act; 6. perform other functions as defined in the rules of art. 8. (4) The Management Board of the State Enterprise shall: 1. develop strategies for the development of experimental, demonstration and production activities; 2. develop the annual plan of the state enterprise; 3. perform other functions as defined in the rules of art. 8. (5) The Director of the State Enterprise shall: 1. represent the undertaking before the state authorities, courts and third parties in the country and abroad; 2. implement the operational management of the enterprise; 3. conclude contracts for the activities carried out by the undertaking; 4. prepare and submit for coordination by the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy the annual report; 5. prepare and submit an annual report on the activity of the undertaking; 6. make a proposal for scrapping of fixed tangible assets; 7. perform other functions related to the management of the enterprise as defined in the rules of art. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 11, which becomes § 12 in the version of the Commission that you have just heard. They voted 116 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u84	A proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The State enterprise under art. 6, para. 2 cannot establish mortgages and bets on the property granted to it for management. (2) The property of the State enterprise shall not serve to secure third parties' obligations. (3) The State-owned undertaking shall not participate in commercial companies, nor shall it establish such companies. (4) The State enterprise may apply for operational programmes and research projects as well as international, national and regional auctions and programmes and may be an equal participant in procedures under the Public Procurement Act. (5) No insolvency proceedings may be opened against the State enterprise. (6) The State-owned undertaking shall be responsible for its duties up to the amount of the property allocated to it. (7) The State enterprise shall not be subject to privatisation. (8) The activity of the state enterprise and its property cannot be subject to concession within the meaning of the concession law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u85	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the new § 13. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u86	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in the version of § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u87	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 14. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u88	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 13 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u89	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the division and the Commission proposal, which supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 13 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 20. They voted 120 MPs: 116, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Before we continue with the next text, please welcome the guests to the National Assembly today. They are students from the school of Emilian Stanev. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u90	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Venka Stoyanova and the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... (1) From the date of its entry into the Commercial Register, the State-owned enterprise 1. Experienced Farming Station - Vidin; 2. Experienced Farming Station - Lom; 3. Experience station on the case and agriculture "Silistra; 4. Experienced station on the soy.. Pavlikeni; 5. Experienced Farming Station 6. Experienced Farming 7. Experienced plant of wine and winery.. Varna; 8. Experienced Farming Station - Pomorie; 9. Experienced station of water farming Pazardzhik; 10. Experienced Farming Station - Sliven; 11. Experienced tobacco station, Haskovo; 12. Experienced Farming Station - Kardzhali; 13. Experienced wine-growing station - September; 14. Experienced potato station "Samokov; 15. Experienced Farming Station - Yambol; 16. Agromarket Information System SAPI "Sofia." (2) From the date of the entry into the Commercial Register of the State-owned enterprise, the registration of the relevant State-owned enterprises under para. 1. (3) The working relationship with the employees of the state enterprises under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Since the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy Professor Nikolov is here, I appeal to him. In § 15, colleagues, the experimental stations were read and you see what palette the state has in every respect...... and agriculture, and viticulture, and livestock. At the same time, we import almost everything from abroad. Only 15% is Bulgarian production. My request, and my colleagues from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), is the Agricultural Academy with this scientific potential, which it has, to make sure that the feeding of the nation is first with our Bulgarian production, as it was a long time ago. Professor Nikolov, this is my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. In fact, you made a request to Professor Nikolov. I hope he heard that request. Are there any lines to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We vote on the wording of § 14, which becomes § 15 in the version of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u94	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs in § 15, item 15. 1 is created t. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u95	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u96	The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u97	The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal to create a point. 5 a t. 6 proposals have been withdrawn in the Chamber. Proposal from the National Representative Venka Stoyanova and the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... (1) With effect from 1 April 2018: 1. State-owned enterprise supplied station of servitude and agriculture Vratsa is transformed into a scientific centre of servitude Vratsa, at the Agricultural Academy; 2. State-owned enterprise "Targovishte" has been transformed into a Scientific Center for Agriculture, "Targoviste," to the Agricultural Academy; 3. State-owned enterprise "Experienced Farming Station" is transformed into a Scientific Center for Agriculture "Sredets," to the Agricultural Academy; 4. State-owned enterprise Smolyan has been transformed into a Research Centre for livestock and agriculture at the Agricultural Academy of Smolyan. (2) The assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations of the state enterprises under para. 1 go to the Agricultural Academy. (3) The working relationship with the employees of the state enterprises under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 15, which becomes § 16, in the version of the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u99	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. (1) With effect from 1 April 2018: 1. An experimental base of state enterprise at the Institute of Agriculture is transformed into a research unit of an experimental base of the Institute of Agriculture of Shumen; 2. An experimental base of state enterprise at the Institute of Mountain Stocking and Agriculture, Troyan, is transformed into a research unit of an experimental base at the Institute of Mountain Stocking and Agriculture, Troyan. (2) The assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations of the state enterprises under para. 1 switch to the relevant institute. (3) The working relationship with the employees of the state enterprises under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 16, which becomes § 17, in the version of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote § 17, which becomes § 18. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of § 18, which becomes § 19. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u105	The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall bring the Rules of Procedure under art. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the last § 20. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, we adopted a second vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Academy with an importer of the Council of Ministers. I propose that the second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility be after the break. One message: Dear colleagues, the exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative: The Epic of the unforgettable Bulgarian militias. The photography exhibition is dedicated to 140 years of the Liberation of Bulgaria. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u107	Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OLD MIGRATION AND THE OLD MOBILITY, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 2 February 2018. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u108	Madam President, I am making a procedural request to postpone the viewing of the bill. It's very important, especially Art. 7 This is a possible question of what is called in Germany, which is called the Gastarchateri. From this point of view, there's a big argument. There are also shuttles running to reach some agreement on this issue. Representatives of employers' organizations have come to the Assembly and it is right here among us to be representatives of trade unions in diametrically opposite positions. Things have not been cleared, and from any point of view it is good to look at the bill at second reading to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u109	A procedural proposal has been made. Another procedural proposal, or what? It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u110	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! In view of the fact that the Law introduces a European Union Directive on which time limits are running and there is a danger of criminal proceedings, I am proposing that the Bill be reviewed in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. We have a motion to postpone the Bill and a proposal that was the opposite of that. We vote on Mr. Shopov's proposal. 90 MPs voted: 27, Against 56, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted. Please, Dr. Ademov, start reporting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Before the Commission's report, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy to be admitted to the Chamber. Mr. Lazar Lazarov, and the State Expert at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Atanas Kolchakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u113	A procedural proposal was made for access to the hall of Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov and Mr. Kolchakov. We're voting admission to the House. They voted 104 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u114	Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 802-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 2 February 2018 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall also support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u115	Are there any statements on the name of the Law and § 1? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law and the text of § 1. Vote 98 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u116	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Daniel Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova, Boris Yachev, Kalin Popovski, Iskren Veselinov and Petar Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words are replaced more freely by "in the area of freedom', and the words "Chapter 3 of the Law on Commercial Persons for Commercial Purposes' shall be replaced by "the Law on Commercial Register and the Register of Commercial Persons for Commercial Purposes'. 2. In para. 3 is finally added, which deals with all issues relating to the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u117	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u118	They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u119	Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 2a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 shall be added at the end, except in the cases provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 3 with the text proposed to be added at the end of Article 3. 5, para. 2. 110 MPs voted: 105, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u121	Under § 3 an offer by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: Paragraph 3 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A new t. is created. 1: ,1. In para. 1, ct. 1 at the end of the sentence after the word "work" is placed in its second use and is added to the Directorate of Labour at the place of employment. 2. The current t. 1 " 4" becomes ct, respectively. 2.... 5.............................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 the number sssssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 3, para. 1, t. 1 of the Small 2. In para. 2 after the words "supplied', "supplied' or "supplied' shall be added. 3. In para. 5 the word "stretched" is replaced by "stretched" and finally added "supplied" except in the cases referred to in art. 33k, para. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. In para. 6 after the words "necessary" for.. Employment registration is added for............................................. and 5. In para. 11 after the words "residence and work', a comma is added and a single document is added when it is a single document and a comma is placed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u122	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u123	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Behind the formally stated objective of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the idea of introducing Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to conduct an oral examination for internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects, attempts are made, especially between first and second reading, to remove all barriers for imports of workers from third countries. The claims and assessments of various experts for the needs of the business of staff and good working conditions, which will attract labour from third countries, are baseless. Official data shows that access to the Bulgarian labour market in 2017 received 5156 workers from 52 countries outside the European Union, with nearly 4,000 registered for short-term employment, seasonal employment and posted for 10 days. We made an offer with colleague Violeta Jeleva with an amendment to art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 all employers should be obliged when they want to employ labour from third countries and for jobs that are not required by Bulgarian citizenship, to introduce the obligation to make these vacant places compulsory in the labour bureaus. I believe that this is exactly where the candidates and the unemployed will eventually meet. There is a place where employers are obliged to declare not only the character and position for which they have a vacancy. This is where the employer will announce the corresponding remuneration that the worker will receive. It is no coincidence that currently Bulgarian unemployed people do not use the labor desks as a possible tool for finding work. After all, we have 2,300 unemployed right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u124	$237,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u125	...237 thousand countered me here Mr. Ademov, for which I thank him, which is even more tragic and only 9100 are the announced jobs at the labor desks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u126	At the state's labor desks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u127	Honourable Members of the National Assembly are currently struggling for a single workplace around 23 people with the idea that each of these announced jobs eventually finds its worker within a month, at most up to two. By attracting and creating prerequisites to import workers from third countries and with the barriers that are currently falling in relation to workers from third countries, we will create prerequisites actually for the free vacancy to have greater competition. It re-freezes the wages of the workers concerned. Because at the moment, the premise that 23 workers are fighting for one place presupposes the need to raise these wages. With these amendments that we are currently making, we are freezing the salaries on the Bulgarian market because for those workers who come from Ukraine, these workers who come from Moldova, these workers who come from third countries, the standard and the level of remuneration are significantly lower than those who are on the Bulgarian market. This will create a prerequisite for freezing wages. Is this the patriotic, honourable gentlemen who, at 1700 hours without 10 minutes, have you submitted these proposals you are making under § 3? The Bulgarian legislation does not oblige the employer to publish his job vacancies at the labour offices. This leads to several problems. First, it allows for the development of alternative jobs, where the offered wages, working hours and other working conditions are not announced. Therefore, the worker cannot make a clear and firm choice and compare offers. The reluctance to intervene decisively puts workers in a subordinate position against employers. Secondly, there is not such an opportunity to create a clear picture of the market how many personnel in what profession they are looking for. In this regard, fellow Members of Parliament, do not accept the proposals tabled by fellow Members of Patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. The line is Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, my line is in the part where you want to oblige employers to announce job vacancies. I am trying to understand your arguments in terms of lightening and publicity, only we cannot further burden our employers with additional administrative burdens, first. Secondly, in no case can we ignore the fact that the element of trust between employers and workers, rather unemployed, to public services, I note - public employment services, is at such a level that neither employers believe that they can find labour from public employment services, nor the unemployed believe that the state employment offices can find them a job. If there is no such element of trust and this element of distrust is proven in a study of employers' organizations, where they point out that public employment services are fourth in the interest of the unemployed, that is, employers do not believe the employment offices, unfortunately I say it with great regret, on the other hand, the unemployed do not believe the employment offices that they can find appropriate employment. And one more thing, every year within the European semester regarding the recommendations to the National Programme for Reforms of Bulgaria to the Social Ministry are made the same recommendations. One of them is that the European Commission is insisting on upgrading public employment services -- something that corresponds to the element of trust. Until they are upgraded in such a way as to be adequate to the expectations of unemployed people, we cannot expect and we cannot oblige employers to register the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u130	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ademov, thank you for making a line. For me, it is absolutely justified in order to modernise employment services. This is indeed a serious problem that needs to be addressed, because indeed the unemployed, as well as employers, do not find any arguments in using the employment bureaus, as their state creates these possible prerequisites before the Employment Promotion Act. This does not mean that we should not restore confidence in what is regulated in the Employment Promotion Act with regard to the functions of the labour bureaus in the country. So this should be a targeted policy in terms of creating such prerequisites by the state that the labor bureaus should really be first and alternative to finding adequate workers, finding, announcing and lighting all possible jobs in Bulgaria needed for the business. Because this will stimulate the ability of many people who are currently permanently unemployed or looking for work to use these resources of the state. And one more thing I'd like to add. In the Rules for the Implementation of Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, art. 4, para. 1 which refers to Art. 1. 7 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, it rules that the preliminary study of the labour market under art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 shall be carried out by the employer in national and local mass media, including at the Office of Labour at the employment office of the third-country national.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u132	I didn't have time to say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u133	So this need is legally regulated for them now in the current rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I strongly oppose the proposals made in this and the next few paragraphs. According to the motives of the Council of Ministers, the stated objective of the bill is to introduce Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to conduct research, scientific work and so on. According to the initial objectives and motivation of the amendments of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. But what happened between the first and second votes? Respected by me, MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs and one of GERB have allowed themselves, in absolute contradiction with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to submit some proposals that at the very least amaze, not to speak with stronger words, that they are a strong manifestation of lobbying. And even more respected by me, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee has allowed itself, under the pressure of these same MPs, with the silent consent of the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy not only to discuss, despite the strong opposition from the MPs, from the opposition and social partners in the face of the trade unions, but also to vote, and to put them in the Commission's work report. In order not to be naked, I quote Art. 84, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure: The proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted. But who reads the rules?! Now tell me, what does this and the other further proposals have to do with the principle and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote? If legal principles were respected, it would not have come at all to the examination of these proposals in substance, but would have been rejected on a formal basis due to contradictions with the rules. When adopting this proposal, we will have an increase in the quota of workers employed from third countries from 10% to 20% for large enterprises and from 10% to 35% for small and medium-sized enterprises. Notice, there's no mention of highly qualified footage anywhere. They could also be joint workers. I hope you will not be distracted by the repeatedly cited facts that the share of small and medium-sized companies in Bulgaria is 99.8% and in the last 18 months only 10 employers have asked to hire third-country nationals above the statutory quota of 10%, all of which are macro or small enterprises. In my opinion, this does not prove at all the need for such a change in legislation. In order to get an idea of what we are doing with these proposals, I will give you an example of a large company with 1000 workers and employees - there will be an opportunity to hire 200 foreign workers, of course, low qualified because there is no company in Bulgaria that needs 200 highly qualified workers and who are not in Bulgaria. There is no clear evidence that there are no personnel in Bulgaria who would take the vacant positions. I closely monitor the statistics of the Employment Agency for unemployment in Bulgaria. At the moment, about 230 people are the unemployed, registered in the employment bureaus. Of these, more than one third are continuously unemployed, and the jobs announced by the Agency are only about 15,000. I come to the categorical conclusion that the Bulgarian business does not need foreign labour from third countries. Rather, it is about an attempt at labour and social dumping in Bulgaria, I am convinced! To keep wage growth, labour income, to pay less for work. And one question for reflection: why, when there is no labour in Bulgaria, our employers do not hire it from the member states of the European Union? There's no limit, there's no ban, there's no quota! Why do they not hold normal salaries and attract back to the country outside Bulgarian labour? It's very simple. We bring in cheap low-skilled labour from third countries, which, since there is no other alternative to work, works at low remuneration within times lower than the average for Europe, and the Bulgarians go to be exploited in other countries, especially from Europe. And here I would like to exclaim to the group of the United patriots: a very stately approach is not the case! I'm just asking about some friends who voted in the last election for you. I will not miss to note that this is how the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation is surrounded, because the proposals between the first and second votes do not necessarily go through it. Isn't that mining social dialogue? [[Shouting from GERB.]] As one of the few defenders of the rights of Bulgarian workers and employees, we are concerned about such actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u136	Mr. Gokov, please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u137	Do not support this proposal, made in the dark, opaque, lobbying, contrary to the rules and to the detriment of the Bulgarian labour force. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u139	You are taking decisive steps towards removing protection in the labour market. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u140	Are there any lines? Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to such proposals § 4 in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility in art. 7, para. 1 The proposal for changes made, the number seven is replaced by two hundred and twenty, and the last one is added for small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act. If so far you have not heard professionally the arguments expressed by colleagues about the problem being created with this text, I would like to draw attention to you that once again exceptional in.Twelfth without five, between first and second reading, with a proposal from MPs you are performing an order of the government of Boyko Borisov and personally of Boyko Borisov, and perhaps bent, exactly more colleagues from......................... have made the proposal................................... Do you, fellow importers, and those who are ready to support this proposal, that there are no unemployed in Bulgaria? Do you know that with this proposal you give employers the opportunity to freeze the salaries and even reduce them? With these imports of workers from third countries, you, at the expense of unemployed Bulgarians, give the opportunity to the Bulgarian business, employers, without having a sanctioning or controlling function in the face of trade unions or the state, to these jobs to work [[speaking indistinctly]] Those who are ready to compete Bulgarian artists. Do you pay attention to the shuttles of Prime Minister Borisov? Do you hear what he's saying, or does he no longer impress you? Because Boyko Borisov meets with the Bulgarian communities around the world and explains that he will create conditions to return to Bulgaria, and what you propose is contrary to the intention of your broadcast prime minister. I am impressed that Borisov himself sees a threat against the government, against him, that he will be removed because of the problems created with the deal with CEZ and returns us to the period February 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u142	Mr. Yankov, stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u143	Mr. Chairman, don't interrupt me, listen to me and you'll find out what the connection is...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u144	Mr. Iankov, I have to do this by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u145	...with what I'm saying. And it is precisely the income policy in 2013. Have you forgotten that of the protests the main poster, which Bulgarian citizens carried, expressing freely, democraticly their will, was: And now you're setting a trap on this government. The policy of frozen incomes, the policy of created conditions for employers to reduce wages is the big problem in Bulgaria. Bulgarian citizens live miserablely and you, with every law creeping, create conditions for deepening this misery. Don't you understand that? Do you think that when you create artificial scandals and the powerful figure of Borisov with a large back, behind which you can hide, will calm the people who are miserable, who are poor and becoming poorer? You don't think about them, colleagues. You may reconsider by voting on this proposal of yours and not accept it. We call you to it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u146	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not go into this kind of opposition between labor and capital. I understand the opinion of colleagues from the BSP on Bulgaria that they stand on the side of labour, but I would like to say something else: I and we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.In no case do we want to oppose the unemployed, nor the unemployed, nor the employers, nor the capital, because it is important for us to develop harmoniously both the work and the capital, in the interests of the development of the Bulgarian economy. This is the most important conclusion that can be drawn from this discussion, from this attempt to oppose between workers and employees and employers. Let's get back to the concrete proposal. I want to read you the current text of the Law. First of all, notice, a very important condition that in the previous 12 months the total number of third-country nationals working for the local employer does not exceed 10% of the average number of Bulgarian citizens employed in employment, nationals of other Member States of the European Union, and in these cases this quota may be exceeded by 10%. Now what's the offer? The proposal is that these 10% increase to 20%, and for small and medium-sized enterprises, under the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, it is the 250 employees, of course, who also have requirements for trade turnover. What's this about now? When the Bulgarian employer on the Bulgarian labour market does not find the right workforce, we are currently giving him the opportunity to search from third countries. The directive concerns highly qualified employment, research and so on, not to list all the elements of the directive, but the possibility is dictated by the fact that this workforce cannot be found on the Bulgarian labour market. I'm gonna try to make some numbers up for what I'm saying. In 2016, the newly released pensions were 107 thousand, 107 thousand had come out of the labour market. High school graduates are only 54,000. Four thousand is the number of net emigrants who left the country, according to national statistics. At 100 exiting the labour market, 63 are those entering the labour market. Do you think that if the Bulgarian employer on the Bulgarian labour market can find the relevant qualified labour, it will go if it is a highly qualified labour force with a type of a "synthesis card".. those with higher education from third countries, to pay one and a half average wages minimum, plus accommodation, plus all other costs for transport and so on, if there are such specialists on the Bulgarian labour market? Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself this question. As for the possibility of social or any dumping.. see Chapter 3 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, where in 10 points are listed all elements of equality between all those entering from third countries and all those working in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. So let us think not in the interests of employers, not only in the interests of the unemployed, but whether and how the Bulgarian economy can catch up with the European growth of gross domestic product, how the Bulgarian economy can make such a way that, with the help of these highly qualified specialists and other labour, it can catch up with the European growth of gross domestic product, because greater employment means higher gross domestic product, more revenue in the state social security, more revenue in the tax system. If we are not aware of everything I have just listed, it means that we are subject to some kind of conjunctural interest, which, unfortunately, is against the Bulgarian national interest and the interest of the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u148	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Dr. Ademov, we are no different from you on our reflections on the labor market in Bulgaria and we are of the opinion that there is really no qualified labour in Bulgaria. We differ in this way, with these proposals, which I think you do not support in this form, but we give the Bulgarian state the opportunity to abdicate from its obligations, such as to create adequate education for the Bulgarian economy, to devote more money, including in the National Employment Action Plan, to more resources for qualification and re-qualification of the labour force in Bulgaria. I have no doubt that you are monitoring very closely the employment agency's statistics and the structure of unemployment. You can see that there is a serious army and a reserve of hundreds of thousands of unemployed who are very low or inadequately qualified for the labour market. Why does the state not direct efforts and funds to re-train these people, and with a light hand we allow foreign citizens to enter the country? I would also agree with you that this is really how dumping of the labour force is created, such dumping as the Bulgarian labour force does, which goes out in the Western European and other member states of the European Union. That is why we differ in general terms and I hope that the importers will reconsider and vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u150	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, I do not think that if these proposals are adopted, they will solve all problems in the labour market. I'm far from that point, and I can argue with that. Last year, with the European map, the "Synthesis" card, in Bulgaria have found livelihood and additional work 170 highly qualified specialists. That is to say, there are no specialists and no other third-party workers to rush, I apologize for this word, to the Bulgarian labour market and to flood it. I don't think we have that kind of expectation. Furthermore, I am convinced that this bill, these changes that are being proposed, will by no means resolve the problems of the labour market in any way, I repeat. This is a partial, temporary measure which tries to support the Bulgarian economy at a critical time for the labour market. I go back: in the years of 1990, if all reforms in the education system were carried out, if education were at a level to prepare for the Bulgarian labour market staff with the necessary qualifications, with the necessary profile to satisfy the needs of the business to avoid this notorious gap between the expectations of the business and what education offers, we would not have come to this. I say this with all the responsibility of all governments since 1990, because in the education system, the measures to be taken are unpopular and therefore it requires political will. Unfortunately, we have arrived at a situation where we can clothe the labour market with urgent measures so that we can solve the problems of the economy. My request is that we all unite around this, make it possible at this stage to support the Bulgarian economy, because it needs and has the capacity, if it has the necessary human resources, to generate higher added value and hence higher incomes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I have the feeling that some BSP colleagues are still living in the times of Cominformburo, the Communist International, that employers still consider them criminal criminals, and the government is a bunch of villains who are willing to drink the blood of the workers, to cut their income. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and condemn them to live in misery. I think that such dramatic statements can be very effective in general from the stands, they can sympathize with many people who have ever seen red flags manifesting, but generally they are far from the theme in general. If BSP colleagues have forgotten, Bulgaria is in a terrible demographic crisis, which has its ominous consequences in all areas of public life, because the declining amount of labour and its deteriorating quality leads to a really serious obstacle to the economy, and the failing economy cannot allow income growth, cannot allow wage growth, pensions and everything else. Waving slogans and borrowing some clichéd ones is not, in my opinion, appropriate. The fact is that we have 200,000 marginal unemployed and we all know it. The fact is that these 200,000 marginal unemployed are the product of a social system that has been built in recent decades, which has encouraged reproduction of unsocialized people. The fact is that we are taking first steps to change this trend, but it will take us many years to deal with its malicious consequences. As patriots, as responsible thinkers, what we propose is to look at the natural reserve of the Bulgarian nation. It is about the Bulgarian communities abroad, which we would not accept to be defined as people from Ukraine and Moldova because they are part of our national community. That is why we have tabled these amendments, so we are willing to open the labour market for people of Bulgarian origin, whether through this text or others who register and so on. Income policy continues to be our priority and income growth continues to be our goal, ensuring not only those 150% that this employer should pay, but also the growing minimum wage and a number of other things, so that we do not mix everything into one meal. BSP's income policy, we know it. I remember the time when BSP got us to three dollars' pension and four dollars' salary. That's the truth. Explain that, don't explain the rest, because I've worked for four dollars a month. What may be needed in this text would be a slight correction and I am making such an editorial proposal to make it clear that this increase in quotas is for people of Bulgarian origin after the words.20 per cent to add of which 10 per cent persons of Bulgarian origin..35 per cent to add 10 per cent persons of Bulgarian origin........................................................................ The whole idea of all the proposals that have been made between first and second readings is precisely this: to support demographic Bulgaria, with people who are close by its origin. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u154	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Veselinov, I understand the idea of the proposal you are making. You're obviously looking for a party identity in this proposal. There is no harm, every political formation uses the opportunity to seek such identity, but what you do is not to support the Bulgarian community, but to limit it, because you generally offer quota in the quota. Of these 20% if 10% are of proven Bulgarian origin, this means, for example, one employer in Pamporovo has the opportunity to hire 20 people from the Western suburbs, from Moldova or with proven Bulgarian origin, only that you restrict it to 10 and the remaining 10 he must search from third countries. Do you understand the absurdity of this proposal? This proposal is practically returning to the text in force in the law at the moment. It is your will to accept, support or not, but this quota, which you offer, is virtually limited, not to help recruit foreigners of proven Bulgarian origin. This idea of yours is embedded in two of the paragraphs. Those of proven Bulgarian origin have registration until a single residence and work permit is obtained. There's no problem with your idea. She found a place in the bill on a proposal from the importers. What you want now, let's also say the Bill importers, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is here, colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but I think that's a limit. It's your will whether you support it or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Another line? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I have listened carefully to you. I don't know why you started with this overture: BSP was living in the past and I don't know what. Does the protection of the national labour market and the Bulgarian labour force that people live in the past? It's a little weird that you're saying a dramatic statement. There's no drama in the speeches. There's pragmatism. There is a desire to protect the Bulgarian labour market. BSP has never opposed the Bulgarian business and we have proved it repeatedly, but this is another topic outside the topic at the moment and I will not continue in this direction. If you want, we can challenge a discussion and see the Bulgarian employer who knows and recognizes as his defender whether "United Patriarchs" or the Bulgarian Socialist Party. You have provoked me by claiming to be patriots several times. Firstly, I could not understand what is patriotic about removing the protection of the Bulgarian labour market. And you now, in order to escape what you have done and with which you have been exposed, including with the speeches here and in your media appearances, are exposed that this is what you are doing and there is no patriotism in this, you put a quota in the quota, 10% for people with Bulgarian identity, proven and I do not know what. First of all, according to our regulations, this is not an editorial amendment at all. This changes the meaning of the proposal and you cannot pass it as an editorial amendment, but you are accustomed to doing so, so you will surely continue to insist on this proposal. However, in general, your proposal is beyond logic and any norms. I'm sorry to say this, but think about what you're doing, because the Bulgarian labour market is not an experimental field for the actions of the patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. And a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Vesselinoff, what can I say?! This amendment you are proposing is contrary to the regulations and cannot be accepted, but this is not so interesting and important. You, as a young man, shouldn't have a memory problem. During the time of the government of the Triple Coalition, incomes were increased to all double.. pensions, salaries. From there the domestic consumption increased, the production of the light industry increased. It makes sense to increase incomes. As far as making an internal quota in the quota is concerned, I am interested, given that someone will want to import two workers, which exactly 10% will be of Bulgarian origin and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u160	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u161	I say to Mr. Ademov that 10% is a minimum number. With regard to the other two lines, I do not see any point in making them colleagues, because other than epithets and some stagms with regard to the...............I have heard nothing else. And I can say that there is nothing socialist about the Socialist Party, which is virtually capitalist, but this will in no way contribute to the debate, so I will not do it. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. In the manner of conduct please, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a note to you because you allow Members in this House, Members of Parliament, to comment on speeches, to place epithetes and then to justify their inadequate positions. [[Radio.]] What they have done as an amendment with the so-called editorial amendment violates art. 84, para. 2, because if we read to each other, Mr. President, and I make you a remark......................................................................................... are the proposals that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u164	May I? Don't comment on me. I make the notes, and you can pay attention to me. [[Radio, laughter and applause in GERB and OP.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, keep an eye on the House because colleagues comment on inadequate positions of MPs and insert epithets that do not resemble them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Zheleva, you have a statement to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to take some more of your time and I hope you'll listen calmly, because this is a very serious matter. The law on labour migration and labour mobility was adopted less than two years ago and has already been amended several times. We are currently in a procedure again to amend this law. At the same time, the authority monitoring its implementation has not carried out the required impact assessment, that is to say, there are no prerequisites for specific changes, especially for those proposals that have made Members of Parliament at the last moment. Now it is allowed to make other proposals that are not in accordance with our rules. There are proposals for some percentages and we have mentioned them here several times from 10 to 20, now a proposal on the proposal, but are they justified and justified? No analysis, no facts. That's why we say it's controversial. How are we going to take such a serious step without an impact assessment in a number of areas of public life? Imports of workers from third countries is a short-term measure and does not bring social and economic security to society. The Bulgarian labour market is facing a lack of labour, but in certain professions and specialties, not because of any percentages and restrictions that the business states, but because we have not been dealing with the reform of the educational system for several years now. And here I want to support Mr. Ademov that there is no footage for high-tech production. So now we're wondering how with some temporary measures to plug the cracks like some kind of panacea, but that's from day to noon. Is it not appropriate for employers to increase wages and train our staff and not to stimulate the import of foreign workers from other countries, if there really is one? The shortage of footage, first of all, must be proven by official data and analysis, which is not currently available. However, I will allow myself to use the official opinion of the Employment Agency and you will allow me to read: For the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2017, no job-seekers registered at the I'm not gonna enumerate. As of September 30th, 2880 unemployed, meeting the above mentioned occupations, were registered at the Department of Labour in the country. Since you've accused us here many times that we don't use facts and talk naked, this is official data from the Employment Agency. [[Shows data sheet.]] You can see the ratio of announced openings for 28 February 2018. 12 789; registered unemployed as of 15 February 2018 Two hundred and thirty-seven thousand. As you can see from this graph... [[Shows a graph sheet. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u168	You can't see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u169	I promise I'll show it to you personally, sir, after I finish my speech. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The dramatic imbalances in the labour market are not specific. The employment agency data shows a significant advantage of the number of unemployed compared to the declared vacancies. The mass imports of workers will result in the opposite result for one job will now compete both Bulgarian and foreign citizens. Thus, the main problem of the brain drain and people of active age will deepen. It is more important to work here to encourage Bulgarian citizens to stay here, in their country, with their families. This cannot happen if we continue to work with such temporary measures, we cannot bring back two million Bulgarians who work outside our country. We're talking about no people, we're talking about no labor force. Ask these two million people here if they'll be satisfied with their pay, do they have a job? No, they don't! That's why they left our country. [[Noise and lines from GERB. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] I had more to say, but I just want to tell you that if you accept these changes, we will hold you responsible if...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u171	...if there are negative consequences for Bulgarian citizens. Dear MPs, Bulgarian patriots, you will be responsible if you accept these proposals today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u172	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Traditionally, at the beginning we heard the dramatic, apocalyptic picture that BSP colleagues described to us, and most likely in their eyes it is true and it looks exactly like this. I thank Dr. Ademov for his expert information. In order not to repeat it so often, I will speak on behalf of a representative from the particular region from which I was elected, and this is Gabrovo region. Gabrovo region is the region with the worst demographic indicators in Bulgaria. At the same time, it shows, first of all, that there is not enough labour. Secondly, in Gabrovo, unemployment is 4.3%, which shows that there is no free labour. Thirdly, in order not to say that with the introduction of people from abroad we want to make wage dumping, Gabrovo, compared to the 28 districts, is in seventh place on the average salary for Bulgaria, which shows that the salaries are relatively good. All this shows, however, that business is still experiencing an extremely big problem with lack of personnel. In mid-March there will be another meeting of the largest companies in the region, which are representatives of different sectors of the economy, to discuss the problem of lack of personnel. This is an issue with which businesses concern institutions in the region for more than a year. This measure is required by business and I think business is intelligent enough, a large part of you in this Chamber are businessmen and we rely on... [[Noise, shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, especially from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u174	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u175	And it is they who can best judge whether it is easier and more profitable to import labor from abroad or to hire Bulgarians? So this is a measure that currently solves an urgent problem that we have at the present date. Consequently, of course, when it is demonstrated that this measure is unnecessary, it could always be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u176	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! Dear Sir Sirakov, the painting is really dramatic and apocalyptic. There is no labour, the demographic crisis is extremely serious. We don't get away with this. We don't have any differences on these matters. I fully agree with you. Really 4% unemployment in Gabrovo. Seventh place on average wage. But knowing what the average wage level in Bulgaria is and that it is the lowest in the European Union, is that for praise? I don't know!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u178	How was it with you, Gyokov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u179	It was a little better with us. [[Noise, shout and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u180	Please don't replicate from the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u181	Some people are yelling at us...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u182	Mr. Gokov, don't come into this conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u183	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but I would like to say a few words about this. Some people are yelling at each other, and they don't come to say from the parliamentary stand what they think about it, but they're hiding behind calls from the hall. I don't think it's normal. Mr. Sirakov, we differ with you on how we want to solve the problem of labour in Bulgaria. Our approach is the protection of the national labour market, the protection of the Bulgarian labour force, and we want the state to take on its role and to do everything possible for the Bulgarians, who are currently inadequate, low qualified, to be qualified. Do you want me to tell you, Mr. Sirakov, perhaps you are not aware of the fact that there is one Employment Commission with which, in addition to all state institutions, of course, municipalities, both employers and trade unions. Is that how these employers' organizations noticed yesterday that there was no labor? Why didn't they signal that our education was going the wrong way? Because these committees establish a plan for admission to different specialities, including vocational education. We need to think about these things, not anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Sir Sirakov, let's look at this from another point of view. You are commenting at the moment and I am sure that no Member of the National Assembly will refute the fact that the demographic crisis is truly terrifying. I'm stressing, terrifying! But where did we forget all the Bulgarians who are at each moment on Terminal 2? Where did we forget them? With what measures and incentives does the state keep these young people in Bulgaria? With this proposal in this bill, excuse me, honourable gentlemen, we will not bring the Bulgarians back from Terminal 2. And why won't we bring them back? Because as soon as we create prerequisites for importing workers from third countries and the screaming need of employers for labour, okay, excuse us, import from third countries and retain the level of wages for all Bulgarian workers. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Of course they will run out of Terminal 2 because in the end these extremely low levels of remuneration and this proposal in this bill creates this very prerequisite. In this way and with these measures you are introducing, we are chasing our young, highly educated Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here's a third line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Sir Sirakov, we have heard your arguments from the employers' side. Can you express your opinion in the back, looking at the problem on the part of the workers, on the part of the unemployed, those with low incomes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u188	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A hole, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u189	Mr. Gokov, I used to be a district manager, so I know the procedures. Colleagues, you're right about what you're saying. These are your views. When you come to power, apply them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u190	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state my support for this editorial proposal made by Mr. Veselinov, which will really calm the passions. If the BSP are a slightly more national responsible party, they will not dispute the procedures, but will protect the interest of the Bulgarian communities abroad and give opportunity... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you spoke, I didn't specifically call you, so please listen to me. You're talking 30 minutes out of the stands, so listen up! Some might learn a word. What I want to say is that all these things that were shared by the BSP simply do not correspond entirely to the truth. Fears have yes, there are possibilities, there are pluses, there are minuses. That's why this proposal was made. We heard from BSP and from saying that in their face the Bulgarian business saw a defender. Or has the Bulgarian business forgotten what happened to them since 9 September 1944, or are you just lying?! I can't understand how the Bulgarian business can see a defender in your face?! That's just ridiculous! The other thing I'd like to add. There was talk about the fact that some of these Bulgarian communities, if people came to work, would reduce incomes or would not increase incomes. I want to ask you: after the fall of the Berlin Wall, when Germany and Austria took back millions of Germans from former Soviet republics, Romania and from all over Eastern Europe, millions who started working there, did incomes fall?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u193	Where, where did the incomes fall?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u194	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u195	East Germany.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u196	In East Germany, there is no way the income from what was the fall of the Berlin Wall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u197	He's fallen twice right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u198	So these things you're saying, they're just not true. Therefore, it is really important for us to pass this editorial amendment so that we can protect the interest of the Bulgarian communities. Even more to remind you of a few facts. Today perhaps this conversation I thought not to mention, but if you are shouting, I will tell you this because this hypocritical attitude on your part is simply not normal and not acceptable. I'll tell you. If during the government of Oresharski and then somewhat of the last office your party and your government had not stopped the process of obtaining Bulgarian citizenship of people of Bulgarian origin Thousands of Bulgarians from abroad gathered before the Ministry of Justice to protest your management of Oresharski for this reason. You've forgotten that. If these people had received Bulgarian citizenship, today they would have either lived or worked or studied in Bulgaria. You've limited them. Yes, the problem has already been solved. They have received, but for a long period of time there have been tens of thousands of refusals of Bulgarians from abroad and a delay in examining the applications from Ukraine, Moldova. It's a fact. Today we would not talk about these things because these people would have received Bulgarian citizenship and have the opportunity to work and live here. We are changing this policy towards the Bulgarian communities and I will tell you to understand it well. During the last three years of our insistence, the number of Bulgarian students from abroad has been increased - already 2000 people are entitled, scholarships including, easing the regime for obtaining a blue card and so on. Let these young people come to Bulgaria, study, live and stay here to work. All these people who received Bulgarian citizenship and have some business in Macedonia, Albania, Serbia, Ukraine or Moldova, moved their companies to Bulgaria and registered them here, pay taxes in Bulgaria. You stopped this process during Oresharski's time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, during Oresharski's time, however, those who did not have the right to receive Bulgarian citizenship That's the truth! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u199	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. First line - Dr. Ademov, second line - Mrs. Klisurska, third line - Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Angelov, I don't know if you understand at all the meaning of this discussion related to labour mobility and labour migration? [[Noise. A line from the MP Julian Angelov. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u201	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u202	That's not the point. Not these percentages, not these quotas, because in the other texts of the Bill there is such a preferential option for the citizens of proven Bulgarian origin - they are registered, but the more important issue that slips away from this discussion is: 237 000 according to official information of the Employment Agency are the unemployed, almost 400 000 more are those who are the so-called long-term unemployed and the inactive who neither learn nor work, rely on I do not know what, but not on the social system, because they are not in the social system as well. That's the big problem. On the one hand, unemployed as much as you want, obviously with inadequate qualifications, and, on the other hand, employers who are looking with all possible means, including lately, we apologize for the word "theft of qualified workers" so that they can fill their needs. Here's the big discussion. She's a lot more consistent and a lot more meaningful. If we understand it and if we are looking for the reasons, because we have come to this situation in which with such urgent measures to try to help the labour market, we will be more useful to the discussion. Otherwise, we will only oppose and talk without having any effect from our discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u203	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u204	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, if you have read carefully which member you are changing, I will start with the editorial of art. 7. that access to the labour market of workers and third-country nationals is allowed for the occupation of positions for which no Bulgarian citizenship is required. What is the hypothesis we're entering right now? [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Dear Mr. Angelov, I understand your suggestions very well, only they are not the subject of the concrete proposal. The other thing I want to say is about the principle that you are introducing right now. Article 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explicitly regulates how proposals are made and how amendments are made. What you're doing right now, and I'm talking about the principle, I'm not talking about whether it's good or bad, I'm talking about the principle, you're breaking the rules right now, because your proposals are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Third line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u206	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Angelov, this is not the editorial amendment. Think about it and see that it is not editorial at all, because you change the spirit of the proposal. I said it in the front line of my colleague, and now I'm going to say it to you that you are only making this proposal to cover the situation. Because you messed up, sorry for the expression, with this proposal to your constituents, in front of the people who sympathize with you. With this unpatriotic proposal you are making right now, it is to the detriment of the Bulgarian labour force, and so now you are somehow trying to bring in some patriotic element...........................and almost half of those we will release them will be of Bulgarian origin. And having no arguments to support this proposal, you intervened what happened before 9 September, 9 September, and I don't know what. If you want, we can also return to the founding of the Bulgarian state, but this will not give you those to support your proposal. You also give examples with Germany. If you want, you can make one reference and until now in the eastern provinces receive much lower salaries than the average for Germany, but this is another topic. Since I had no intention of affecting this issue, but you raised it in your main statement, I will tell you what Oresharski did. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] It is not a tragedy that you say there have been, among those who speak them. Oresharsky 2013 - 2014 For one year, fix the state's obligations to business. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Or do you not remember what the debt of the state to the business and the twist by Simeon Djankov of the hands of the business?! You don't remember, but I'll remind you! In addition, Oresharski launched a reduction in the administrative burden for the business. [[The President signals that time has expired. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u207	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u208	Now, no matter how much you pat yourself in the chest for this, the beginning is set by others, so a little more modest. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u209	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Angelov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u210	Madam President, in the first line, I think you should have made a remark to Dr. Ademov because he made the point and did not give me a reply in any way. He made a statement. I have nothing to say to him because it was a statement, and it wasn't a line, and that's a fact. To the other two colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, who replicated me, I would say that this law does not treat people with Bulgarian citizenship, but I said that if these things were not taken by the Oresharski cabinet and tens of thousands of Bulgarians from abroad were not deprived of Bulgarian citizenship, but received Bulgarian citizenship, these people could enter the labor market in Bulgaria and today we would not be dealing with this. But you obviously don't know what this is about! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here we are not talking about the people who have Bulgarian citizenship.. they have the right to work wherever they want in Bulgaria, but we say that if these tens of thousands who had refused and were stopped by the Oresharski cabinet, which is a fact there is no way to challenge it, and this was not a big problem according to one of the replicators. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the contrary, this concerns the Law. I'm saying we wouldn't even be talking about these changes today if this process hadn't been stopped. It's a fact. About the other line I was made. I know that Mr. Gokov is an expert on all matters, and he understands them best. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] But let there be other opinions besides yours, perhaps there is some truth in them. Especially the German income you're talking about. Excuse me, what income in East Germany do you compare to West Germany? Why don't you compare the income from before the fall of the Berlin Wall in East Germany and West Germany? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when I told you, millions of people of German origin were picked up by Germany and Austria from the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, this did not reduce income in these countries, on the contrary, increase them. That's a fact, and you can't argue with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u211	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Procedure, first, by Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u212	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! I am making a procedural proposal, taking the occasion of the finding that the respected President of the Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Mr. Ademov found. Indeed, the debate is no longer constructive, indeed the same ones have been presented more than three times, even by the same speakers. I think that in plenary each of us has already formed our final opinion on this issue and on the proposals that have been made. For this reason, I am making a procedural proposal to end the debate, which lasted more than an hour and twenty minutes, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u213	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Iankov has a counteroffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Kirilov, this is how you manage without hearing arguments and without wanting to understand people's problems! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] It is for this reason that I will call your reign arrogant and self-absorbed! I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u215	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to put an end to the debate on this paragraph. Vote 150 MPs: 98, against 50, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The debates on this point are suspended. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. Firstly, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva. Vote 158 MPs: 54, against 88, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on Mr. Veselinov's editorial amendment. They voted 161 MPs: 22, against 48, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 3, which shall become § 4, on the Commission's report. They voted 152 MPs: for 99, against 53, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u216	According to § 4 an importer there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. the following point is inserted after 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the word "the request' is replaced by "the application'. 3. The creation of para. 3: The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 2, p. 1 may exercise employment without permission under art. 7, para. 3 after registration by the employer at the Employment Agency under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u217	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4, which shall become § 5 of the Commission Report. Vote 139 MPs: 127 against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u218	No proposals have been made under § 5 and 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u219	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote, respectively, § 5, which shall become § 6, and § 6, which shall become § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 137 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u220	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 4 the comma is replaced by the Union, and the words with allowed long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria or the Republic of Bulgaria are deleted; (b) c. 6 the words the request for a decision under art. 7, para. The application shall be replaced by the words "the application' and the words "the application'. 76, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 75a, para. Art. 2, Art. 76, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 77, para. 1 and 2 (c) c. 7 after the word "Notifications" shall be added according to the order of art. 24 of the Employment Promotion Act and the words "submit the request for a decision under art. 7, para. The application shall be submitted to the competent authority of the Member State in which the application is lodged. (d) c. 10 the words "submitting' shall be replaced by "submitting'; (e) create a t. 12 and 13: ..12. the requested duration exceeds the maximum permissible total duration without interruption in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 7, para. 5 or for the type of authorisation concerned; 13. the employer has entered into a criminal order under art. 128, t. 2 of the Labour Code in the previous 12 months prior to submission of the application. 2. In para. 2 the words..3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 3. A new para is being created. 3: The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall refuse to register the employment of third-country nationals in the cases under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, two and three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u221	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 8 of the Commission Report. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u222	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u223	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission supports it. They voted 115 MPs: 115, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u224	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Alexander Paunov, Milko Nedyalkov and Kristina Siderova: Paragraph 9 is out. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: Paragraph 9 is out. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u225	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, which the Commission shall support. They voted 127 MPs: 109, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u226	According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: Paragraph 10 is out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska Zhekova and Violeta Jeleva: Paragraph 10 is out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly § 10 shall be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u227	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 10. They voted 132 MPs: 131, against 1, without abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u228	According to § 11 of the importer there is a proposal from the MPs Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The single residence and work permit shall be issued by the Ministry of Interior according to art. 24and of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and contains the decision provided by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency under art. 7, para. 3. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be provided within 20 days, subject to the requirements of art. 7, para. 1 for third-country nationals who: 1. apply for a residence permit for work purposes, or 2. hold a valid residence permit in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for purposes other than employment. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The term of the decision under para. 1 may be extended for up to 12 months under the conditions of art. 7, para. 5 when there is no interruption of employment. 4. In para. 4 t. 1 is canceled. 5. In para. The term of three years shall be replaced by the term of three years and shall be added to the term of the term of three years without applying the condition of art. 5, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u229	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 11 of the Commission Report. Vote 131 MPs: 130, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u230	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied', and finally added "supplied' or "supplied'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "long-stay stay' for the purposes of "supplied' shall be replaced by the person moved to "supplied'. 3. A new t. is created. 5. It's five o'clock. have been granted a residence permit and a work type of the European Union Blue Card; 4. Previously on "T." 5 is going to be t. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u231	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 12 of the Commission Report. They voted 121 MPs: 118, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u232	Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 12a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 7, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by the following: 7, para. 1, t. 3 and 4
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u233	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u234	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Slowly and slowly we came to the next controversial moment in the Bill, the so-called market test. Needless to say, because I mentioned it in my first speech in the previous case of the percentages that this proposal was made in absolute contradiction with our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Here with § 12a a very complicated and very twisted is proposed a change which basically means the following: not to look for Bulgarian workers for highly qualified positions. This is the cancellation of the preliminary study of the labour market, which, for a short time, we refer to as the market test, when it comes to a residence and work permit, the European Union Blue Card, which is issued by the Ministry of Interior. Now let me tell you what we are canceling with the specific text when issuing the so-called Blue Card for a specific workplace for the exercise of highly qualified employment. Remove the requirement of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 of this law, which states: "Access to the labour market of workers of third-country nationals is allowed for the occupations of non-Bulgarian citizenship according to the state, development and public interests of the Bulgarian labour market after a preliminary study of the labour market carried out by the employer, the so-called market test. I now do not see what is the problem of the importers, what prevents us from defending the interest of the Bulgarian labour force on the Bulgarian labour market with a market test. I don't know if the MPs are aware of this, but the minimum duration, the entire duration of the market test is 15 days. It consists of the announcement of jobs in the public space, I will call it that in the media, in another way to search for labour, and after no candidates appear or appear but inappropriate candidates, to say that in this case there are no candidates Bulgarian citizens for this place of such qualification. Are we going to delay employers by two weeks to ensure that there are no Bulgarian candidates for this highly qualified employment? Note that this does not apply to the newly accepted restriction of 20 or 35% for companies. There's actually no quota here. So once we've removed the quota for highly qualified workers, and now we're removing the market test. It is good to make it easier for the employers in question, but wouldn't it force the few young Bulgarians left to look for realization outside, in another country, to take their families out? Whose problems are we solving with these unreasonable proposals of the Bulgarian state, which is shaking with demographic problems, or the same country, which if it offered a little better living conditions, would be filled with immigrants, or several large Bulgarian employers who wish to ensure dumping of the wages of Bulgarian labour? Let's put some more thought into this vote and reject the proposal. I call on you to reject this proposal because it is not in the interests of either employers or labour. It's clear to the workforce. By removing the market test, we do so that the employer who wants to hire a foreigner does not reach the so-called working hand. In Bulgaria there are 230 000 unemployed and more discouraged in the labour market inactive people and these job requests will not reach them in any way. I submit that such a registered job application in the employment office can reach almost all unemployed through the employment agency's system. There is no other resource, such as the labor bureaus, to bring requests into prominence for all who can use them. I said that, on the one hand, we are harming the Bulgarian labour force and, on the other hand, employers who really cannot find Bulgarian labour for which to pay less money than if they bring labor outside. I very much hope that reason will prevail, and that thing will not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 12a importer, which the Commission supports and becomes § 13. Vote 124 MPs: 88 against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u236	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 18 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u237	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u238	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the moment, with this proposal, which GERB and "United Patriarchs" propose dropping the list of professions for which there is a shortage of highly qualified specialists. This means that it will facilitate the import of workers with all kinds of specialties. With the amendment of § 13 and the annulment of art. 18 is removed, I will stress again, the list of single groups of professions, which is validated by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the basis of a reasoned proposal of the nationally represented employers' organisations and as regulated in art. 18 till the end of January. At the end of last month only 30 January 2018, by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy new three single groups of occupations for engineers in industrial production, chemical engineers and electric engineers. What are we doing with this proposal, ladies and gentlemen? We have removed the list and at the present time, if something is bothering you, there are already 13 single groups of professions that allow workers to be employed without a market test in more than a thousand different positions. Well, that's how we open our doors wide, let's tell all workers from third countries: Come to Bulgaria because our Bulgarian workers can run out of terminals and work in Western Europe! We need cheap labor! - Do not support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u239	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Replies to Mrs. Klisurska's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I am thinking, is there any point in these speeches that we are making...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u241	No, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u242	Well, with this spontaneous response, I see what the moods are and they are not in favor of the Bulgarian labour force. It is very good that you are making such spontaneous outbursts on your part to understand the people on whose side you are, because this preliminary study of the labour market, the market test, is a thorn in the eyes of the so-called "importers" of the proposals between the first and second votes, which I claim to be in violation of our rules and thus circumventing the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. I say this is because, as it became clear when examining the proposals made by them between the first and second votes, they themselves are not very aware of them and how their acceptance of the labour market would affect them. So none of them were motivated and protected, or at least I didn't hear anyone get up and motivate and protect them. The same thing happens in the gym. The question remains: whose proposals are these? It must be someone very strong at the moment, because employers' organizations have announced, before the proposals are accepted, well before today's vote, without worrying, in the media that they have won easier and triple higher labour imports from countries outside the European Union, under light conditions. Essentially, with this proposal to drop art. 18 the list of single groups of professions, which shall be validated by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, shall be removed on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the national employers' organisations represented. This also means that issuing a blue card for the exercise of highly qualified employment by third-country workers, there will be no list, no market test, no quotas, no demand for Bulgarian citizens. Well, congratulations to the Bulgarian labor force! And I ask again: is it normal for this proposal to be made by MPs calling themselves Patriots? What is patriotic about removing the protection of the national labour market, which aims only to protect the interest of the Bulgarian labour force? That is, if there is a candidate for the job a Bulgarian citizen or a citizen of the European Union who meets the requirements, it cannot be removed from a foreign national of a third country. The market test has reduced it to 15 days and does not even have an obligation to announce the place at the Employment Agency, and it in turn to release it into all its structures in order to inform the Bulgarians who are looking for work with their own capabilities. Consider, honourable Members, to reject the proposal because it is unargued, harmful and eliminates the protections of the national labour market. I once again tell you that it is not for the benefit of either employers or workers. I think that with these proposals made at the last minute through MPs, employers are testing the system or testing how a further withdrawal of labour rights will sound. Not only do I suspect, but I am convinced of this and will soon rain down proposals to cancel the minimum insurance thresholds, the minimum wage and so on. Do not do this, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, because this is how we lower Parliament to a regular lobby, if it is to the Bulgarian employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-28.u243	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 13, which shall become § 14. Vote 138 MPs: 96 against 42 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we will continue tomorrow with the first item of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
