ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, on Friday, we voted on the program for the extraordinary meeting today. I suggest we include one more point. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Agenda for today's plenary session, 22 May 2018, the following additional item: First vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. It was introduced by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: for 118, against none, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the last few days, we have witnessed the dissemination of false information directly related to Bulgaria's national security, which GERB's parliamentary group accepts as provocation against national security. This active event, unfortunately, included the public representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, who turned this provocation, distributed by fake sites into a serious problem and a cause for concern, to put it mildly, into two million Sofia. The information was related to the fact that Sofia's water was poisoned, and Mr. Ermenkov's suggestion was that the state is hiding this from the people and thus risking their lives and their health. When false information is spread by false media, it could be called a part of a hybrid war or a faiknus. But when a Member of the National Assembly speculates with such information, it is now really bordering on a violation of national security. We have a history of hiding such real news in Chernobyl in 1986, when the leadership of BSP, the BCP then, hid for two weeks that there was a nuclear accident and that from a nuclear cloud raining over Bulgaria, while the Bulgarians marched on the order of the same BCP on May 1. Because of this case, Bulgarian society is extremely sensitive to what the institutions say, what is really happening. When you undermine trust in institutions at a basic level, at a level when it comes to people's lives and health, you sabotage the foundation of statehood, which is the purpose of this provocation to lose the fundamental trust between people and the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u3	It's lost.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u4	No, no, that trust is not lost. It is about to get lost because of such stocks, because today we can say that the water in Sofia is not poisoned and that it is even in sixth place in quality throughout Europe. We can say that. I guess you know that, too. This case, this case, it is an accident, gives us reason to call you to give a standard attitude to the speech of the MPs. We do not accept the explanation of Mr. Ermenkov, who reduced this case to the fact that he only asked what was happening. The MP has all the tools to ask the institutions, the minister, the municipality, to ask anyone. He has access to top-level classified information and can get it before he writes it on Facebook. This is either about a total inadequacy of the action that is unacceptable to a Member of the National Assembly or a deliberate action that aims to raise tensions in society at the expense of the collapse of trust in the institutions, because these institutions, colleagues, are not GERB. These institutions belong to the Bulgarian citizens and they will continue to exist after GERB. This mining subversive activity in the Criminal Code is even formulated as terrorism. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, the purpose of terrorism is precisely to undermine a society in the wider sense of the word. I'm not saying that Mr. Ermenkov is a terrorist, however, this will decide the court and the prosecution, but in a political sense it is a provocation against statehood and BSP is good to ask, after all, after quite a few missteps, some standard of speech of the MPs, some red lines that should not be crossed and which, unfortunately, intersect very often. And the standard of speaking and the standard of political conduct is set through taking responsibility. That is why we, yesterday and today, call on the BSP parliamentary group to request Mr. Ermenkov's resignation as a gesture that the BSP has nothing to do with these attacks on national security, because it is not only about Mr. Ermenkov, it is also about the former mayor of Shumen and a member of BSP Mr. Krasimir Kostov, who at the same time wrote on Facebook that Shumen is radioactive. They may not have a connection, but show us that they have no connection, not just by apologizing, because you apologized and your party also apologized for Chernobyl, only that did not bring back the thousands of lost lives in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] And now that you've apologized for Chernobyl, I see you haven't repented because it's one thing to apologize, it's another to realize what you've done. That's why we don't accept BSP's apology. [[Replys from "BSP for Bulgaria"]] . Aren't we citizens? We're not peasants. [[Noise and lines.]] We don't accept Mr. Ermenkov's apology. We call on BSP to stop communicating with Facebook sites because we know what you are doing in this direction, we know very well and we call on you to comply with an elementary political standard that will keep at least the fundamental trust in institutions! Political parasitization on false news has not brought success to anyone, and it will not bring you as it has not brought you so far. We hope, despite the already heard statements of your parliamentary group, that you will still reconsider your decision and Mr. Ermenkov will resign. That would be a normal political act. GERB MPs do it quite often for much smaller offenses because we do not believe in the phrase your rights when you sin even. With us, everyone has personal responsibility, personal responsibility and takes it when necessary. With you, as I have said before, is the collective responsibility when no one is responsible and therefore the responsibility is borne either by your entire party, and when you are in power, by the whole society. Once again, I call on Mr. Ermenkov to resign and thus BSP to show that he is not involved in this really hybrid attack, which caused very serious concerns among two million Bulgarian citizens who live in Sofia and drink the water from the dam. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Ermenkov, I presume a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm just making a gesture, Mr. Ermenkov. You know... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm obliged, after everything that's happened in the last few days, to take the floor and explain what moved me on Saturday to write the publication that so aroused the spirits. I have already told the mass media several times, but I will repeat it from this high tribune: I have never, in any way in my life, intended to create panic and arouse unwarranted fears in people. [[Noise and lines. Calling from the bottom of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u7	It's just a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u8	At the same time, I have always held to my conviction that people have the right to be informed about things directly related to their health and life, and competent institutions are obliged to provide this information in due time. Until Tuesday, I was in my election district, on Wednesday and Thursday in Pleven and Belene. I attended the National Assembly meeting, and on Friday, immediately after parliamentary control, I went to the village of Galice. I haven't had a chance to follow Facebook posts. On Saturday, a few people called me on the phone to inform me that information about water quality is being distributed in Sofia and whether this information is correct. The other night, I saw that my personal Facebook account had similar messages sent to me. On the Internet, I sought opinions from RZI, whose duties are to monitor the quality of drinking water daily, the RIEW and the Swimming Directorate, which monitor the state of the dam. Such opinions and information were not available. Given that this is about concerns and doubts about a problem directly related to people's lives and health, I wrote on the page and in my profile a call for competent authorities to intervene for information on this important issue. It was natural to quote the messages I had received earlier. I have always believed that the people's representative is a people's person when he shares the problems, worries and pains of his people and seeks a way to hear them, clarify them and try to solve them. I have, by the way, clearly formulated the first part of my publication and people, not without the help in quotes of distorted and bomb headlines from two media [[noise and lines, shouting]] Takko Ermenkov: the water in Sofia is poisonous, they have not understood that it is not about spreading information, but it is a call to the institutions to do their work in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u9	I'm asking you to finish your thought, because the time has been overdue. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u10	Some of the citizens may have been really scared, and I have created a sense of discomfort, which I sincerely ask to be excused, but I think thousands of citizens have felt even worse...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We shouldn't blow up the hall. Really, I've given enough time. [[Noise, lines and banging on banks from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u12	You can't accuse me of not having an excuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u13	You have a personal explanation, it's two minutes and 40 seconds. Let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u14	Colleagues, don't ask for my resignation, it's not up to you. You don't have to ask for it. When those who have chosen me take their trust from me, I will give it to myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u15	Okay, thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Let's stop here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u16	And I'm not gonna hide behind immunity if the D.A. decides to take action because we're in this parliament not because of immunity and privileges, but to do our job. [[The people's presentation speaks to off microphones. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u17	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I pay attention in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, we have rules that have been voted by all Members of Parliament. In the Rules of Procedure, the right to have a personal explanation or not to have a right is written down. Let's assume you've followed the rules. We accept it even though it wasn't objective. Secondly, when two minutes are indicated, you've authorized... When you finished your speech, it was three minutes and one second! Then he used the time on the topic on which now here Mr. Stoinev will make a declaration. Please know the Rules when making a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , wait for me to speak when a declaration is made on behalf of a parliamentary group, there is no right for another parliamentary group to speak on the same subject. Please follow the Rules of Procedure and do not be afraid to take the floor according to the Rules! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u19	You're right! You're right, Mr. Ivanov! It is true that we have exceeded too much time for Mr. Ermenkov's personal explanation. It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would agree with Mr. Ivanov's findings on violations of the Rules if ten minutes ago the President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Karayancheva, did not say Mr. Tasco Ermenkov to make a personal explanation within as much time as he wants. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, in violation of regulations! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Yeah, but she said, "I'll let you talk as much as you want." And you're banging on the back. Why are you banging? Your President of the National Assembly said so to approach. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u21	Mr. Svilensky, you're making me...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u22	And now you're making a remark to the chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u23	Make a remark to me, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you should have followed the recommendations of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament and let Mr. Ermenkov say his personal explanation for as long as is foreseen. And as for the declaration whether a declaration on the subject of another parliamentary group can be made, yes, Mr. Ivanov, can! And you know very well that after every statement we make... [[Noise and lines. Calling from the bottom of the room.]] You then make a counterclaim on the same subject, don't you? So there's no violation of regulations here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u25	Mr. Svilensky, you're very far away from me. [[Heckling]] Personal explanation please, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]] My fellow Members, once I have allowed us to move in this direction, I am obliged to continue. Please be tolerant too! We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The word was taken in the manner of conduct, and the whole time there was an address to me. It's okay, but we still have, I remind you, we have Rules. One thing I would like to draw attention to, Mr President, is that you should not be afraid to follow the regulations, regardless of who is speaking, which parliamentary group it is. You were afraid to take the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, I would like to make a proposal, as there are speculations, I would like to address you as a host at the moment, to remove the stenogram and see if these things have been said. Personally, I admit, in the back I couldn't just hear this thing being shared by the President of the National Assembly, that he could speak and as much as he wanted to speak on the subject. I'm sorry. Take out the transcript and report! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Karayancheva, personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, by passing through, we spoke with Mrs. Ninova that if Mr. Ermenkov takes a little time for the personal explanation, a little time can be given. [[Noise and lines. Invocations.]] But we mustn't jump! I haven't given unlimited time. I said a little time can be delayed. [[Heckling]] So don't twist my words, just specify! [[Heckling]] And three minutes went by, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm making a constructive proposal to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Stoinev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Galice has long been a symbol of violence, of fear, of abuse of power over citizens, of corruption, of lawlessness! Replaced by the father of a GERB MP protocol of partial elections is a continuation of this history of insolence and smashing the order. Any normal, democratic party, any little bit ashamed of the abuse and ridicule of the people would look at the partial elections in Galice and otherwise. They would see in them an opportunity to put an end to it, to publicly cancel out this most corrupt and ugly symbol of power relations and provide maximum transparent electoral process. Not GERB, not the party of the so-called "citizens for European development." Through Galice GERB once again showed that they are blind to anything other than power consumption, that they feel good in the swamp of lawlessness. Galice is an impertinent mockery of the democratic process. GERB literally said to the Bulgarians: "You vote in conscience, we do not interfere with you, only then we will replace the protocol. " You all know what this is called when the acting power uses all the levers to prevent change. After Galice GERB have no more right to criticize the past! To all their pseudo-Democracies of totalitarianism, authoritarianism the answer is one: Galice! Galice is a symbol of a huge political replacement, which has long been underway to ensure the financial survival of a narrow group of people around GERB. Galice is also a warning that in the regions, in municipalities, free initiative, economic development, the progress of small business will depend on the masters of the municipality who have come with a replacement protocol, and then will replace the protocols for each tender, competition or advertisement, which will trade with any permit, with any request of the business and the citizens. Galice is also a symbol of the lack of perspective, esteemed MPs, of GERB's party selfishness, but also of something that is not openly spoken about by their great fear that they are already losing. In Galice, they had the opportunity to stand up honestly and ask for the people's assessment. However, they chose forgery because they sense their failure. We Bulgarian Socialists make these findings not with gloat, but with regret. A Bulgarian village, several generations of Bulgarian citizens in it became a name for the insolence in the local government. Galice, unfortunately, to a greater extent and to a lesser extent is happening throughout Bulgaria. Watch Galice and think about the local elections in 2019! That's what's waiting for us! That's the way it's gonna be! These will also be the techniques, but watch Galice and think about how we not only as politicians, but as Bulgarian citizens to oppose the cooked replacement of our vote. Bulgarian Socialists will use all the funds allowed by law to stand against the forgery of the elections. However, the great power is in the hands of the citizens who should not allow their vote to be crossed out by the hand of someone fed by GERB electoral! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u31	Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u32	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the Bulgarian legislation and especially in the Election Law there is no limitation [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] the parent of the MP to be a member of a mobile sectary electoral commission, let alone a chairman! [[Noise and lines. Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u33	Wait, wait, wait! As you yourself sometimes begin to get to the point in a similar way. Go on, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u34	Very clear and precise protocol signed by all, including by the Vice-President of the mobile selection commission.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't see what the problem is or how it's a replacement protocol when this thing is a disgusting lie! I have nothing to do with this thing! [[Noise and lines. Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman! Lies have been told!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u35	You pay attention to me not allowing statements that distort the truth, is that how I understand it? Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u36	Lies have been told, and please, if you have any data, notify the relevant authorities, report them! [[Noise and lines.]] I have nothing to do with this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work on the Programme. We move to the first point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DEFINIATE A NEW PERIOD FOR THE DELIVERATION OF THE AUDIT FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURE/Transfers ON THE BUDGETS OF THE FIRST BUDGETS WITH BUDGET APPROVED BY THE DELIVERIES OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD OF 1 JANUARY 2017 TO 31 JANUARY 2018 The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will present Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a draft decision setting a new deadline for carrying out an audit of compliance of the additional costs/transfers on the budgets of the authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018. Mr. President, I apologise very much, but may I ask for a procedure before I proceed with the Report in this House to allow Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u40	Vote 102 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u41	At a meeting held on 17 May 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the draft decision. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Court of Auditors: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov President, and Mr. Toshko Todorov Vice-President. A letter from the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, together with a copy of a letter from the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, addressed to the Court of Auditors, was received in the National Assembly. The letter concerns the motivated need for an extension of the deadline for carrying out the audit awarded to the Court of Auditors by decision of the National Assembly of 23 February 2018. The decision sets a deadline for carrying out the audit until 1 June 2018 and a deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors 30 June 2018. The reasons for the extension are as follows: 1. The information required by the Court of Auditors shall be related to the preparation within a short period of consultation, explanations and information in a large volume and the provision of multiple documents covering a large time range. 2. The requested information shall be prepared with additional involvement of numerous experts from different administrative units not only in the Ministry of Finance but also by other budgetary organisations. 3. There is a significant commitment of the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Finance to holding numerous events during the first half of 2018 related to the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In view of those reasons, the President of the Court of Auditors proposes that the audit period should be extended until 31 July 2018 and that the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the audit report should be extended until 31 August 2018. After the discussion, a vote was held, in which with 13 votes for the vote, without the vote against the vote and 5 votes, the draft decision was abstentioned. On the basis of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION setting a new deadline for the audit of the compliance of the additional costs/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018 awarded to the Court of Auditors by decision of the National Assembly of 23 February 2018. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 7, para. 1 of the Act on the Court of Auditors and the decision of the National Assembly on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the compliance of the additional costs/transfers on the budgets of the chief authorising officers with a budget approved by a decree of the Council of Ministers for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018. HAS DECIDED 1. Sets out 31 July 2018 for a new audit period; 2. The new deadline for the submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors under paragraph 1. 1 is 31 August 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! The decision in which we want to change today, we debated it on 23 February. Before that, we had a debate on this topic, on deadlines, on content and in committees. This was agreed with the Court of Auditors' participation. They felt that this deadline was sufficient, and that is why we have taken this decision in the Chamber. Today we have a proposal to extend the deadline by one month. That's not the biggest problem. The problem is that it is wanted by the Court of Auditors, only it is ready to do its job, but notice, the Ministry of Finance cannot provide in such short time three months, the requested information, because, you see, the range was very short, the period that will have to be very large, and the employees in the administration of the Ministry were very involved with the Presidency. I find this so-called motivated need to be frivolous. These aren't motives, colleagues. If we expect the Ministry of Finance to put order in the control bodies of the state in this way, giving them an example, I think things are not going well, because this is the way most of the control bodies work, which we have been trying to deal with for years. And if the Ministry of Finance gives this example, this vice will not be defeated. We cannot support this so-called motivated need because it is neither motivated nor necessary. That's enough time. At that time, the Court of Auditors can do its job as long as there is the good will of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the draft decision Mrs. Stoyanova read just now. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. The first report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You are welcome to submit the report to the Commission, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Mr. Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u46	Please vote on access mode. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u47	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 16 May 2018, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Atanas Dobrev Deputy Minister; Ivaylo Simeonov Director of the General Policy Directorate in the field of hydromeliation and fisheries and Hristo Rangelov Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal Affairs; from the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency Galin Nikolov Executive Director; from the Ministry of Interior Senior Commissioner Konstantin Dimitrov Deputy Director of the Directorate General of National Police. The bill was presented by the MP Ivan Valkov. The first group of changes is linked to recreational fisheries. An obligation shall be established for amateur fishermen to make a single test licence under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The obligation of amateur fishing ticket distributors to issue tickets to persons benefiting from preferences under the law is explicitly regulated. Penalties for infringements of this obligation are provided for. Distributors will have to separate some of their revenues from the sale of tickets to fish for recreational fisheries. The second group of changes is related to the extension of the powers of the staff of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and of the Executive Agency for Forests controlling the use and conservation of fishery resources. In establishing violations of the law, authorised persons will be able to detain offenders, use recording and recording technical equipment, use motor vehicles with special driving mode, as well as physical force and assistance after warning. The terms and procedure for exercising these powers will be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and of the Minister of Interior. The deadline for the adoption of the regulation is 6 months. The third group of changes is related to the introduction of a prohibition on fishing with nets in the country's inland waters, a prohibition on their sale, transport and transport without a valid permit for commercial fishing, as well as a prohibition on the sale, transport and transport of electro-fishing appliances without a valid catch permit for research purposes. Accordingly, the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be amended to art. 238 of the Penal Code. It is proposed that sanctions under this provision be imposed on anyone fishing fish, even without catching. There's no need for an important case. The amount of the fine for fishing with explosive, poisonous and stunning substances shall be increased. Criminalised the catch by means of technical means for electro-fishing without a valid permit, as well as by fishing nets in the country's inland waters without a permit for commercial fishing. The amount of sanctions for catches in preserved areas, under low water, in non-industrial waters during the breeding season of the fish and endangered species shall be increased. Criminalisation shall be carried out again, the participation of staff of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture in them, where the acts have been committed in agreement and in cases where the subject of the offence is in large proportions. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill in principle by making concrete proposals to refine the texts. The Ministry of Interior also makes proposals to refine specific texts and recommends detailed regulation of the detention procedure for offenders. The Ministry of Justice has agreed to the bill. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the question was asked how the funds for fishing will be controlled, separated by the ticket distributors for recreational fisheries. They indicated that there was no clear procedure for carrying out the training of all amateur fishermen. They disagreed with the high sanctions for persons who simply carry or carry net instruments. From the parliamentary group of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms', they expressed principled support for the bill and recommended a revision of the texts in line with the recommendations made in the opinions received. In conclusion, on behalf of the importers, the people's representative Ivan Valkov said that the proposals made by the ministries and by the MPs should be taken into account and that the texts should be refined between first and second readings. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the European Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, No 854-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Mihovski and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. The next report belongs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Mr. Manev, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u49	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-29, submitted by Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. At its regular meeting held on 16 May 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, No 854-01-29, submitted by Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov; from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Mihovski. In his statement he noted that the proposed amendments to the Bill aim at the effective protection and maintenance of sustainable development and state of fish populations, which have been significantly decreasing in the last 25 years. The Law introduces a prohibition on fishing with nets in inland waters, which is dictated by the caselaw that, within the meaning of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture in inland waters, there is no commercial fishing. Much of the changes are caused by the improper use of electrical appliances when catching fish, which causes huge damage to the fish resource, fauna in the pond, and to those who use it. The practice shows that the cases of abuse on the person and property of employees of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture during or on the occasion of the performance of their duties are frequent. The bill aims to increase the effectiveness of the control bodies through a clearer and detailed signature of the terms and conditions of use of auxiliary vehicles, motor vehicles with special traffic regime, as well as the organisation and order of forced removal of intruders with unknown identity in the regional management of the Ministry of Interior. A change in art. 238 of the Penal Code. Punishment of imprisonment and fine or probation punishment is envisaged. The Law also criminalises the involvement in committing a crime of an employee of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, dropping the text in the provision that the latter has benefited from his position of office on the grounds that it is difficult to prove and leads to a longer duration of the trial. In accordance with art. 76, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been applied a preliminary assessment of impact. The legislative changes are not expected to have a direct economic and financial impact on the groups concerned. There is also a detailed opinion from the Ministry of Interior with specific proposals for a more detailed regulation and precise definition of some of the proposed texts in the Bill, which will improve the quality and achievement of the envisaged objectives in law enforcement. There is also an opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, with which they generally support the Bill, but also apply a number of editorial remarks to the proposed norms in order to refine the texts. The debate was attended by the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Ivan Ivanov, Georgi Andreev, who supported the proposal expressed in the received opinions for a more precise regulation. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the European Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, No 854-01-29, submitted by Ivan Mihovski and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 April 2018.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Can we hear the importer's motives? Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposals for amendments to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act are based on public discussions and discussions with non-governmental organisations, fisheries associations, the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency and fishermen. The Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act amends several directions that can be grouped in the following way: amendments to the fisheries interest rate change are related to persons selling tickets for recreational fisheries, the introduction of an obligation for the same to allocate part of their income to be used for fishing, as well as persons engaged in recreational fishing, should apply a one-off test for recreational fishing. Increase in the powers of the employees of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency The changes are aimed at increasing the powers of the employees caused by the frequent abuse of their personality and property in and on the occasion of the performance of their duties. The third amendments and additions are in the administrative penal provisions. The changes are aimed at imposing a penalty for imprisonment, fine and/or probation for the use of net fishing gear in establishments outside the authorised for commercial fishing or in the use of prohibited appliances and funds...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihowski. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Changes are proposed in the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, but our opinion is that this bill concerns much more change in the Penal Code than in the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture itself. During the discussion in the Commission, we asked our questions. It was promised by the importers that many of the questions are circumstantial and require further changes that will be made between first and second readings. In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, which is imported, from six, seven paragraphs, without the additional provisions, we have objections to four of the paragraphs. Firstly, it is said that those who practice recreational fishing must undergo some training and subsequently have a document to certify this training. How many amateur fishermen in Bulgaria? This answer is important because from now on they follow all the processes and questions that need to be resolved. The bill, which was tabled in February, regarding the amendments to the Penal Code, says that there are 400. This bill says it's 200. They're 400, they're 200, it's probably a topic that needs to be debated from now on, but it's some function of the tickets that have been sold. That is, we have no clarity on what we are going to do, how we are going to train these people and what it takes such an administrative burden for them to be able to practice recreational fishing. For us this is an additional requirement that will not solve matters regarding control. The second question, which also requires an answer, is the 5% that will be added to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency from the difference between the fishing tickets sold in order to further carry out activities to fish for recreational fisheries. We have a case here, too. This law has been changed several times. In one case, 95% of the tickets went to the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, now there are 80%, we add 5.. some mathematics, which I personally do not understand. Where will these funds go? If they go to the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, save 85% or 90%. Someone sit down to calculate how much money is needed in carrying out this activity, to precise the financial estimates that will be made from here on out. If we really want recreational fishing to develop, the IRA to make its commitments. In my opinion, the funds to be allocated must be very few, because this is also a commitment that the Agency takes in front of these waters. The third objection relating to the change in the Law is to fishing with nets. And § 4 and § 5 states that the sale is prohibited. How do you stop selling? It is not very clear, but it is still written in the Bill that sales, transportation and transport are prohibited.........in vehicles. By this logic, anyone can be sanctioned if he has bought, sold and carried, no matter what purposes. [[Replication by MP Ivan Mihovski.]] You react, but for me it is not clear who will be the criterion, if there is a network in a means of transport, what is it for, for what is it bought, who has sold it? It is necessary to be clearly regulated when we sanction fishermen in cases where networks are carried. I read the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. They also have their objections. I hope between first and second readings, as I see the will to adopt this bill in order to increase the control and protection of those working in the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency, however, my fellow Members, there is really a need for a broader discussion, a revision of the texts. Otherwise, case studies and decisions may be obtained that do not benefit either the Executive Agency or those of whom this is a hobby. If we are doing this bill for 200 people, it seems to me that there is no need for a complete change of regulations to be in conformity... The line I'm making: 0.01% are those in the Law of 28 February writes that they do not comply with the requirements and are poachers. At 200 or 400, it turns out that there are so many people who create problems for the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. Perhaps other measures should be taken if they are known and named after who they are. We will abstain from voting on this bill. However, if there is enough time and the necessary meetings and talks are made, we would be involved in proposals between first and second readings in order to resolve the issues and not circumvent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u54	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Abase, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! We fully support the motives of importers in terms of the changes imposed in the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, respectively in the Criminal Code. Yes, the fact is that there is an awful lot of poaching; the fact is that the fish from inland waters and inland rivers are almost destroyed; the fact is that there really is a need for drastic changes to increase the penalty burden of anyone who has dared to reach for the fish resources in inland rivers and lakes. In this sense, we support the philosophy, idea and will set out in this bill by the parliamentary group of.........the movement for rights and freedoms............................ I say so to distinguish that support is for idea and philosophy, not so much for specific texts. In our view, the specific texts are in a very harsh form, which should be corrected quite well between first and second readings in order to obtain the desired effect that we are all pursuing. I have two comments to the proposed drafts. The first one is principled, the second one is in the specifics. My principle comment: honourable importers, honourable Ministry, honourable Agency, when we open the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, my request is to propose other changes besides the penal responsibilities which give rise to this bill. I think you will all agree that the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act needs a change that will solve the sector's policies. In this case, we work in a piece, we open the Law, we change only the criminal responsibilities, but we do not change the texts that concern the policy in the sector, but there is no doubt the need to change the policy in the sector that gives rise to the law. The next time we change laws and when they are not absolutely necessary, like this one, we are not pressed by any deadlines, the changes we will make in the laws, to concern the integrity of the Law, and not just its separate parts, and in the Transitional and Final Regulations. That's my principle commentary. The specific comment is on the texts. I have concerns about what has been written as commitments of the employees of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think it's disturbing as a practical performance. Staff functions such as detention and forced removal of captured persons are assigned. I'm sorry, but these are the powers of the Ministry of the Interior. I think that text should be refined here, too, because we are making commitments to employees of the Agency, not for them, but rather inherent to other bodies. Physical strength and support funds - whether the Agency's staff are ready to apply physical force and use auxiliary funds - should also be refined. In the bill there are terms such as catch and catch, which at first glance are very close, as well as small and small. Colleagues, I ask that, within the period between first and second readings, all these things that I am listing, be precise because of the small difference between.............................................................................................. We support the spirit and philosophy of the Law. I think that importers, the Ministry and the Agency have a lot of work between first and second readings - to refine the texts listed by me and by my colleagues before me in order to give birth to something really good to act and to prevent this process, which destroys a significant part of the country's fisheries resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, on 3 May 2018, we adopted a Draft Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act No 802-01-09. An extension of the deadline expires on 25 May 2018 when we voted for a non-working day is requested, which is why I would ask you to put the deadline to the vote to be extended by another week, i.e. the maximum time limit, so that colleagues can normally predict if they have proposals for amendments between first and second readings. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u58	Seven days?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u59	Yeah, maximum deadline. We extended it by two more weeks, now another seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor to be spoken.]] I'll put it to a vote and then you'll speak. I put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's proposal to extend the bill by another seven days. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, there is no way to support it in this form. I understand the desire to have more control in terms of fisheries and aquaculture against poaching in principle, but in this form I think the Law will even have reverse action. By reference to § 1, para. 2 is intended to have a ticket test for recreational fishing. Nowhere in the Law, however, is there a description of how much this will cost and how it will be expressed financially to both the Agency and every future lover of a fisherman. On the other hand, I think this is ridiculous. There is no party, at least I'm not familiar with, to hold a specific exam for an amateur fisherman. Moreover, this will strengthen poaching, in my opinion. That is to say, people who are going to fish without having any ticket at all, for this reason, that they have to hold some kind of test, unknown what kind and quality. I understand when a hunting test is performed, a hunter's test. Yes, then it is handled with dangerous means, with firearms and it is normal to have an exam, to know the game, which in Bulgaria is not as diverse as the fish species in Bulgaria. When it comes to amateurs, it is absolutely unnecessary. Of course, if it is business fishing, yes, then some kind of test could be introduced, although there the ticket price is quite different from that of recreational fishing. In addition, an amateur fishing ticket can now be issued for one day, for one month, for half a year, for one year. This person who wants to buy a ticket for a day, what should he do to go to some exam?! Which, you understand, is absolutely not based on sound logic. On the other hand, one presumption of guilt is introduced that the person selling, transporting and transporting fishing nets is guilty. Mix the penalty with administrative responsibility throughout the bill, the borders are blurry. That's ridiculous, fellow Members. The one who manufactures the nets must have a fishing ticket?! It's like saying: the car manufacturer must have a license, otherwise the manufactured car will be confiscated and a sanction will be imposed on him. That's exactly what you say in this law. This, I think, is nonsense. At present in Bulgaria are producing networks of people who go to the market and sell these networks, but in many cases the networks are not even used for fishing, and here we are almost criminalizing this act, even the transportation of networks. Next, after § 6 it is noted, honourable MPs, that the Ministry of Interior practically abdicates from another sector. Their entire function and competence is transferred to the employees of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture (IRA) - they can retain with support, which I think is not normal in a rule of law and democratic state. In private security activities transferred the competence of the Ministry of Interior. Here again, competence is transferred by the Ministry of Interior. After all, I do not think that this is normal for a rule of law. For these reasons, I repeat, we support the principle of limiting poaching, but not lovers are a problem of poaching in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u62	Who did?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u63	The problem of poaching is because you ask who?The Admiral is those who do not have any ticket or fish in prohibited by the Law or in prohibited at a time when no fishing is carried out. Then they are subject to a penalty with or without a ticket. It doesn't matter! They're poachers, whether they have a ticket or not. And when you have a ticket, but you didn't pass an exam, that's all, sorry, it's too much. We support the bill in principle, as a spirit, as an opportunity to limit poaching, but these are not the measures, I think, in this regard. On the contrary, they will increase the opportunity not to buy tickets, however, to go fishing, not to hold exams, but to be limited to not carrying nets. Understand, this will give enormous power to those who must control them, and, of course, an opportunity for corruption schemes, whether or not he was carrying a network, whether he invented a network or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Come in for a speech, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! After the speeches that have been made, I was under the impression that colleagues on the left side support the spirit and philosophy of the Bill, but they hardly know or want to participate in this discussion so that we can stop these attempts and be nationally responsible to our own children, I would say, as this policy leaves some dead waters behind us, because our internal waters are almost dead, with an exhausted fish resource, as those individuals who are engaged in unauthorized fishing, I do not intentionally mention the word "Brakoneiers" because the concept and definition of the term "Brakoneier" does not exist. Maybe this is one of the tasks we need to set for ourselves to be able to define this kind of uncontrolled and illegal activity destroying in full the fish resource. I would say that we should support this idea, this time of development for this law, because we need to start somewhere. The Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, as well as many other laws, has been changed many times, but philosophy has never changed on how we can protect fish resources. The law has never dealt with the rights that we want to give to employees of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture at the moment. Why should they not have the right, colleagues, to hold back, to use aids? Have you ever been to such late-night raids in one, two hours, three o'clock in the morning of the so-called specialized cars, fighting beacons to chase boats with electric motors mounted on them so they don't make any noise, hardly chase you like a criminal and guerrilla with the persons involved in illegal fishing that destroy everything after themselves where they go? I can give you an example. I was at Lake Durankulak this week. In front of me, they pulled out 2 km of grids and found three electric shock devices with hidden batteries in the cane. This lake is already dead because only large specimens over 80 - 90 kg can be extracted from there. That is to say, since the smaller fish and smaller specimens are gone, this lake has already been destroyed and has once provided sustenance to dozens of people in this area. Colleagues, I call on you to support this bill because it gives rise to really serious discussions that we can do between first and second readings, make all efforts, time needed knowledge, together with the team of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, together with the team of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and make a flexible, very well-functioning law. Regarding some things that have been mentioned here about exams for amateur anglers, indeed, this is a measure that we may need to refine. I agree with the fact that you can't hold an amateur fishing test. Perhaps we could find another form of a declaratory statement that you are familiar with the current regulation and legal basis because the signing of such a declaration that you are familiar with the requirements of the legislative base, then means that if a breach is committed you will be able to be sought administrative or criminal liability and you cannot hide behind that you do not know the base. Colleagues, in this regard I ask you to support the proposal of colleagues from GERB and to start a very good start. To be together and to be able to create very good texts to give and untie the hands of these people who, for a modest reward, love their profession, walk around the clock, risking their lives, as the threats against them are very much, you see that there is also physical violence used on the IRA employees, to give them hope and to give them reason to feel proud of their professional duties. I ask that this law be supported and we begin an absolutely serious discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Apostolov, I agree with what you said about the crimes committed at the Bulgarian dams for the destruction of the fish in them. The problem, colleague Apostolov, is that with these measures there is no way to solve this problem. Here, you set an example: to sign a declaration. The ignorance of the Law is not an excuse. Every Bulgarian citizen is obliged to know the law and whether he will sign or not sign a declaration, it absolutely does not matter in legal peace. The other is on the prohibition of transporting and transporting fishing nets. That won't solve the problem either. He's not going to solve it at all, because they're going to supply nets. It's a whole industry, understand! Again it will be carried out with electrical appliances, as you said with bombs and with everything not destroyed fish in Bulgaria, in any way, including networks as aids, but now IRA to use, excuse, and recording devices, really comes in a little bit more. It's part of the special reconnaissance, understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there another line? I can't see. It's a hole. You have the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u69	I agree with you, colleague, that some of the texts are not really properly refined, but that is why I have asked us not to oppose this idea, but to do everything possible for the Law to work. About nets and other appliances. This text should be supported, except for the sale, because there is no way to limit the sale of fishing nets by law, but the transfer of such fishing nets must necessarily be limited and punishable activity, because at the moment when IRA employees catch a network in the trunk of a light car, the person concerned laughs at them in the eyes and says: "I bought this network to catch my chicks or to equip my restaurant to make interior coatings. I cannot agree with you that we should not limit the possession and transfer of such mesh appliances, because this is a scourge. Hundreds of miles of nets take down IRA employees, and the next day they're replaced by twice as many. So if there is no responsibility, there are no sanctions against those who deal with the transfer of such net instruments, we will do nothing. In our committee were presented facts and data as to how a person from Montana, I think there are over 180 penal decrees against him, this person is laughing at the employees of the IRA at any moment and starting to carry out his illegal activity in front of them. So let's be more robbed, more measured and find all together the exact wording of this legal base and not make opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor as co-owner of the Bill. We have heard all the colleagues who have expressed their opinion on it, some positive, some negative. Either way, it is a bill with which we aim to increase control in this area, as at present all our dams and pools are suffering great losses from the continuous raids of poachers. One year and two months last the discussions that have started with non-governmental organisations, with fisheries associations and with the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency, since then dates correspondence with them and continuous discussions. In this regard, we have all three positive opinions from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. During the discussions that were in the committees, as well as during the discussions with all non-governmental organizations, in the opinions that we received from the ministries, were raised and the most volatile were those issues that we are currently debating and the ones that are for the exam. My fellow Members and I have given this proposal after the talks we have had with the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and with non-governmental organisations, but we are ready to make a discount in this direction and to make other proposals. If you believe that this proposal is not feasible in this form, to submit it in such a way as to be feasible. For example, as an advertising campaign or as a kind of declaration, as the colleague said, but this is a matter that has been resolved. In the Bill this is not the most important because, in order to get to it, we have examined many legal documents, many problematic cases in court, which end with non-condemning of offenders. In just two years we have established acts for 3406 violations which have over 2,700 penal orders. Of these, I would like to introduce you to the constant protocols that apply to networks with a length of 416 thousand. meters. These are 416 km from here to Varna and from Varna to Burgas. You yourselves understand that this is the amount of nets that we can then say that there will be enough fish in our ponds and that we are protecting it?! That's one side of the question. The other side of the issue is the continuous beatings that are being carried out and are already tens of them, over the employees of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency in the last two years alone. There are hardly any places in Kardzhali, at the dam Ogosta, Zhrebchevo, in Plovdiv, in Burgas, the two lakes were beaten there just two months ago, and not to mention the unique case in which one of the employees of the dam Batak was beaten twice in one day. I think that we, as legislators, should take some measures, because what is happening at the moment, shows that legislation is not deterring enough in this direction and does not have enough parenting effect. That is why we have made these proposals and we are ready between first and second readings to make the corresponding editorials of the texts in order to become more working. We will take into account the views of all ministries that have been sent in this direction. I think we can make a working law that will give a positive direction to fisheries and aquaculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there lines? No. Any other speeches? I won't. We close the debate and move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-29, submitted by Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs. They voted 118 MPs: 95, none, abstention 23. The offer is accepted. Procedure. Mrs. Taneva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In relation to the statements made and announcements made by importers, please extend the period between first and second readings, in accordance with our Rules, to a total of 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Desislava Taneva to extend the deadline between the two votes of the Bill. They voted 111 MPs: 111 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. You have the floor, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 854-01-27, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 9 May 2018. The Law on Civil Registration is amended and supplemented by the Law on Civil Registration. The Commission supports the wording of the importers for the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u76	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importers on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 100, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u77	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 92 a new para is created. 11a: (a) The mayor of the municipality shall, by written order, designate property of municipal property to be registered as permanent address of persons who cannot submit those documents under art. 92, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become the sole paragraph: I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 11: seven) Alinea 10 shall not apply in the cases of first address registration at the permanent address of persons who have received Bulgarian citizenship under art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. 2. Previously on AMC's... 11, 12 and 13 become respectively. 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wonder why the President didn't read the unacceptable text from the Commission... Did you read it? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u80	It was read.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u81	Mr. President, I will try very briefly to explain once again that, under the Civil Registration Act, each person is obliged to state in writing his permanent and current address. Following the 2011 amendments, to give some clarification, in this article. 92 certain amendments and additions were made to the Registration Act and we then said that to the official, anyone who wants to be registered at a permanent address must present a document of ownership, a document of use of the property for residential purposes, other documents proving the ownership or use of the property. Now in the proposal of colleagues, including since 2015, when GERB together with Mrs. Maya Manolova supported another text, it was said that in addition to all these documents, it must be proved that everyone who lives in this house and is registered must have 10 squares of necessary living area. Right now we want to cancel all those requirements that we adopted years ago in art. 92 because of the fact that there will be a chosen tourism and to create a favorable environment for these foreign citizens who for the first time acquire Bulgarian citizenship. This is Mr. Honest Vesselinoff's proposal. In fact, this proposal, Mr. Veselinov, you will not be angry with me, as you have proposed a very quality law before you have accused the DPS that our laws are incompetent. You are the second after another GERB colleague, who is making a proposal and amendment to the text you have proposed as amendment of the Bill, the only member, and at second reading you are making an amendment and an addition to your proposal! And now, colleagues, the question arises here: why do we want those who receive citizenship from Macedonia, from Moldova, from Ukraine to give them preferential opportunities to be registered, not to require 10 squares of living area and to go to register as much as possible in Kyustendil and in Blagoevgrad? That's very questionable, colleagues. That's why we're not gonna support this thing. Our doubts remain. After seeing how the House will vote today and if you accept it, then the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will want to establish a temporary committee of inquiry, the topic and the thesis will be heard further. About our proposal. Our proposal, colleagues, is how to create conditions for our grandchildren, for our children over time not having problems with minorities, not having problems so that these people can, first of all, be registered, know where they are, create training conditions for them, create an opportunity for them to go to receive a health service. How can that happen? After you knocked down the building in Yambol, in the same way thousands of houses from which these people remained outside, they are currently unable to go to prove that they have property or rent documents and these people are living and exist in Bulgaria without personal documents. Our idea here, colleagues, is nothing else we want, because if the text is that the mayor of the municipality by written order can determine real estate, municipal property, where he can carry out a business address for permanent address of persons who cannot provide those documents under art. 92, para. 2, then, as MPs, we will be confident that we have given the executive power, those living in Bulgaria to have those personal documents to present themselves with, even if they do some violations, even if they do theft, God forbid they commit a more serious crime, where will we find these people? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five minutes probably won't be enough, colleagues, how can I convince you, but once again I just want to tell you, our problem was South Africa's problem years ago. In time, it will become a problem for our children and then you will regret that we have not solved it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Do you have a line, Mr. Genov? A statement. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We at BSP will not support, we will abstain on this particular proposed amendment because it does not solve the issue in principle for the first registration of the people who acquired Bulgarian citizenship for the first time. The fact that it concerns only citizens of certain countries is also embarrassing. I remember last term my colleagues from the DPS offered similar things to other citizens who for the first time became citizens of Bulgaria. There are many Bulgarian citizens who have lost their citizenship in the Republic of Turkey, restore it, their children want Bulgarian citizenship, so we will abstain from this amendment of the Civil Registration Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u85	Don't we have a right to a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u86	A line? I asked for a line, but there was no sign. [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff. I asked for a line, I'm sorry. Mr. Atalay, I'm sorry, but I didn't really see a sign from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the proposal we are making, unlike what our BSP colleague claims, does not concern only a certain country, it concerns all possible countries from which citizens acquire citizenship for the first time. I recall that the address is a unique description of a place where the person lives or receives his correspondence. This is at the heart and the inability to accept the proposals of the DPS, because what they propose is something completely different. We are actually creating an opportunity for our fellow citizens instead of registering at a service address where they would hardly receive their correspondence, to register at an address that is close to them, relative and so on, where they could receive their correspondence and be in better contact with the Bulgarian authorities, which is one of the main objectives of the Law. So in this regard, I think that BSP colleagues do not need to worry. That is not the case with the text of Mr Atalay and a group of MPs who, in practice, once again, putting on the mask of great concern about minority rights and the desire to have these minorities registered openly in a particular place, make once again a proposal that cannot exist if we respect ourselves as legislators. I say this most responsiblely at the risk of affecting them because, first of all, what they describe as a thesis is described in the existing para. 8 and 9 of the Bill, where persons who cannot present the circumstances under para. 2, however, they live somewhere, even though they do not have a document of ownership and so on on the basis of a decision of a specific committee appointed by the mayor, they can obtain their address registration, and their personal documents, respectively. What the DPS is offering us generally says that persons who are unable to provide those documents in art. 92, para. 2 The mayor should register them at some kindergarten address, for example, at a kindergarten. [[(Distribution from DPS:]] Will these people get their correspondence there, will someone turn it over to them? Do they live there? Will they be able to be found there? I mean, none of the things that stand out as an advantage of this proposal are happening. All we do is open the door wide enough for specific mayors to bring in as many voters as they want at one address and solve their election problems. This is what the DPS is offering, and we need to be clear. In this regard, we, the United Patriarchs, cannot support Mr Atalay's text for any other reason, but because it cannot work and will create a legal chaos. The same is the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, who believe that the service registration should be as limited as possible and in fact our proposal is precisely in the spirit of the Law to limit registration, to make the connection of citizens, albeit permanently living abroad, with the state, and their proposal in practice opens up a wide door for it to the people, including, if you wish a criminal contingent, to wander the country with personal documents, without being in any way bound by the place which the police will not be able to find them, nor will they be able to receive any correspondence from the state institutions, nor will they have any commitments to this settlement. So we continue to support the text that has already been refined and which enables our countrymen who receive for the first time citizenship to register with a specific address rather than a service address. We cannot support Mr. Atalay's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A moment ago, you expressed regret that you would not be able to give me the floor for a line, so I hope your regret is only today, not once you have passed this law. Colleagues, Art. Art. 8 and art. 10, which your colleagues from the Ministry have told you, do not correspond at all with your text, nor with this text that I am proposing to you, they have nothing to do with this. Mr. Veselinov, how are you going to correspond with a guy you trashed his house and he doesn't have an I.D.? We're at least telling you to give him an I.D., and you're explaining how you're gonna correspond with this guy. So how will you correspond with this person when he does not exist in Bulgaria's registrations at all? If our proposal is so bad and will create chaos, why not build everyone here who sits, a proposal and think about these people how and in what way to create rules and lifestyles in Bulgaria? You're a long way from that. You are far away because they are minorities and this text you do not accept at the moment because they offer it DPS and because, you see, the Ministry would find it very difficult to apply this text! The difficulty of implementation and the person who offers are your arguments today to leave an army of at least 100,000. Or 200,000. the guy who doesn't have IDs and you know that thing. We're offering you a solution to the problem is it partial, is it complete, but let's start somewhere. Let's start somewhere, colleagues, that's what our concern is for. It is not for us to act interesting today just because we wanted minorities to be registered in certain municipalities. The text is the mayor, every municipality where they live now! Is there any Yambol to come out and tell us what those downed blocks are doing? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I can get you the houses you knocked down and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u90	Mr. Atalay, time's up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u91	Yes, thank you. And from Garmen, and we have enough people living in the woods, and they can come out and explain it to you. Why are you hiding from this thing? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. By the way, you wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. You become pedantic when a colleague from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is speaking. As of this morning, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, rather than the beginning of the plenary session. We believe that the issue or problem is extremely serious.. You are overlooking it, on the one hand. On the other hand, you are becoming meticulous in 15 seconds. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure to all Members of the National Assembly equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Of course I can defend myself by getting the printout from the record today, but I think we're gonna step up too much... Statements? No. Another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u95	I would just like to assure my fellow Members once again that there is a procedure in which any legal resident anywhere in a particular place can obtain registration on the basis of those committees which have provided for the Law. We have provided for it precisely as a result of an MRF request for such service registration. The service registration does not solve any problem, however, creates many problems. We understand that there are not tens of them, but hundreds of thousands of people who can be settled at certain business addresses. This is a potential danger of blowing up any stability of the political process in certain municipalities. So I hope that we will all, together, reject this proposal, and I think that we will show our responsibility in this way. [[Displays from DPS: "How many are there, how many are there?"]] And with regard to the integration of minorities, it is good for colleagues from the DPS not only to fight in their breasts with concern for them, but to look at those decades in which they managed and turned all these minority representatives into their fortified literally who were dependent on their handouts and who still rely on them to be able to avoid compliance with the rules that should be binding on all citizens. I believe that we in the United Patriarchs have repeatedly stated that the rules should apply to everyone and therefore should not compromise for some just because it is a minority representative. [[(Reply from the DPS: There are no minorities in Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 17 against 36, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1, which becomes the only paragraph. Vote 113 MPs: 81 against 15, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point of the Work Programme today: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL MANAGEMENT AND LOCAL ADMINISTRATION, No 854-01-28. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, adopted on 9 May 2018. The Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration (prom., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the wording of the importers on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 1. "Transitional provision." The Commission supports the wording of the importers for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u98	Thank you. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my opinion, the current texts of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration in art. 27, para. 2 and para. 3 give a single answer to what it means to have a quorum and how decisions are made when voting on a decision in the municipal council. Alinea 2 of art. 27 says: "The meetings of the municipal council are legal if more than half of the total number of municipal councilors are present. " Alinea 3: The decisions of the municipal council are taken by a clear vote by a majority of more than half of the present councilors. However, what do the caselaw examples show in the administrative courts in Bulgaria? The Administrative Court of Justice of Vratsa annulled Decision No 422 of 30 November 2017 of the Municipal Council of Mezdra, which, at the initiative of a certain company, allowed the local Parliament to design a draft to amend a detailed planning or plan for regulation and construction. The Court of Justice held that procedural rules were not complied with when the decision was taken. The decision was taken at a regular meeting of the Municipal Council "Mezdra," attended by 20 of all elected 21 municipal councillors, and 11 people voted for the decision. However, the Court says the following: In the total number of municipal councillors 21, the exact half of them is 10.5, which means that another vote is needed to determine the quorum or half of them is 11 advisors. In order for the decision to be lawful, in the case of a re-vote for it, at least 12 municipal councillors should have voted in the present case. By adopting a decision without the quorum required by the law, the Municipal Council of the Republic of Bulgaria shall determine the Judge of the European Union has committed a material infringement of the rules of procedure. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27, para. 3 is said: The decisions of the municipal council are taken by a clear vote by a majority of more than half of the attendees present. The court doesn't admit that 11 votes are more than half. Another judgment of the Administrative Court in the city of Dobrich ". Decision No 214 of 25 May, initiated on appeal by the District Governor of the city of Dobrich, by decision by which the Municipal Council has agreed to be converted by a change of the type of school in the village of Vasil Drumev. In accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to mechanisms Since half of the total number of advisors is 10,5 but this number is not a whole, it needs another vote, that is, 11.5 and after rounding it the number 12 is obtained and the decision is taken by 11 votes for On the basis of these findings, the court also annulled this decision of the Municipal Council in the town of Tervel. Reading the many such decisions, one asks the question: if one municipal council was from three members, from three municipal councillors, what happens then? Then surely the court would have ruled that all decisions should be taken by a full majority!? [[Audience in OP.]] We will support these changes. Over the past 20 years, local government legislation has changed several times and there are still unresolved issues that hinder decision-making and are interpreted inconclusively. Our task is to bring peace to the work of municipal councils, regardless of their majority, and these changes that we are going to vote on today are part of these measures. The changes are also conditional on the opinion of the National Association of Presidents of the Municipal Councils, where they insist on this practice in appeals of decisions and decisions which certain formations of administrative courts, as I have just given you examples, clearly speak about this problem. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u100	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote four texts: the first text of the importers on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; the second text of the importers for § 1, which is supported by the Commission; the third text of the importers on the name of the division supported by the Commission; the fourth text "the text of the importers for § 2, which is supported by the Commission." Please, voting mode. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The texts have been adopted, and we have completed this bill. Coming up next: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE WATER LAW. Who will present the First Voting Report on the submitted environmental and water bill, which is the leading one?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u101	You are welcome to present the report to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. At a meeting held on 17 May 2018, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Marinov Hristov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, and Boncho Bonchev Head of Department at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy. by the Ministry of Environment and Waters Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister, and Iliana Todorova Deputy Director of Water Management. by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. by Ruslan Kenarov State Expert at the Department of Hydromelioration and Fisheries. Emilia Arnaudova. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its introduction were presented by the MP Mr. Emil Hristov, who stressed that this is the result of joint work of the MPs, the Ministry of Economy, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and DAMTHN, and is related to the current nature of problems causing danger to people, infrastructure and the environment. Mr. Hristov pointed out that it aims not only to define the dam but also to introduce relief for the owners and state structures not only to control but also to prevent dangerous situations. He also pointed out the new moments that ease the work of the owners and control structures: another case of public municipal property is introduced on the water sites and water systems and facilities in order to settle cases in case of refusal of ownership of property on the dam. The municipality, becoming the owner of such dams, will be able to grant them a concession and to ensure the technicality and safe operation of the facilities and some financial relief; the proposed amendments enable the owners of dams and their facilities to assign the operators the preparation of emergency plans, thereby achieving a synchronization between the requirements of two regulatory acts. Mr. Hristov also pointed out that a classification of the dams is being introduced, which allows for the regulation of different requirements regarding their maintenance in proper technical condition and ensuring their safe operation and classification of dams by degrees of potential danger, which is intended to be carried out by the Commission under art. 138, para. 3 which is appointed by the district governors to examine the dams on the territory of the district. An important moment, according to Mr. Hristov, is also included in the composition of the committees and representatives of the affected municipalities as the most interested. The proposed bill gives the owners the right to declare to the President of the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision their desire to liquidate and/or decommission dams and facilities to them. The aim is to regulate the process of eradication of dams only at the will of their owners and to avoid the self-destruction of facilities without taking into account the public interest. The cases of enforcement of forced administrative measures are also regulated. Mr. Hristov also noted the new element proposed by the Ministry of Economy.. the creation of a new structure that will greatly ease local authorities in maintaining dams or the care of the state regarding those water sites for which there are difficulties in maintaining their technical condition and safe operation. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva announced that opinions have been presented by the institutions and organizations concerned and are available to the MPs on the National Assembly's website. The attitude of the submitted bill took: Mr. Lachezar Borisov, who announced that as an institution they worked on the bill together with the MPs, and most importantly according to him is the classification of the dams in size and degree of danger, stressing that the small dam, if classified as dangerous, remains under surveillance. He drew attention to the two groups of measures in the Bill: the establishment of a state-owned enterprise to support municipalities that are not able to maintain certain dams, and the time within which municipal councils have to declare their intentions is 3 months and the possibility that the repair and restoration activities of dams.. state and municipal property can be awarded by a 100% state-owned trading company, determined by the Council of Ministers in compliance with the procedures of the ZOP. The list of dams against which action will be taken will be adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the President of the DAMN Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, who announced the support of the Ministry of Environment and Water for the Bill, which contributes to achieving the main objective of protecting the lives of the population and critical infrastructure, focusing on prevention and risk reduction. She announced that the Ministry of Environment and Water has submitted an opinion to be examined by the MPs; Mr. Blagoy Stanchev recalled that the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria has insisted on this proposal for a long time, and expressed satisfaction with the consideration of the bill by defining as a main goal the balanced distribution of responsibilities. He announced the support of the draft by asking a question about the terms and the possibility of taking ownership, stressing that written proposals were presented, which could find a solution between the first and second votes; Mr. Emil Hristov, who gave answers to the questions asked, and Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, who pointed out that the three-month period was the period in which the municipal council, as a body of local authorities, should take a decision and inform the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, but was not finalising the process of transfer of ownership; Mr. Yavor Bojankov announced support for the bill by announcing that it meets the expectations and solves an important problem of society; Mr. Boris Yachev, who expressed the support of the Bill, which has been working for a long time and which, according to him, addressed several issues, stressing the importance of the establishment of state enterprise; Mr. Vladimir Stratiev, who announced the support of the Bulgarian Association for participation in the work groups of the project. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 20 votes for................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u103	Thank you, dear Dr. Grudev. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u104	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 10 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mrs. Malina Krumova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Blagoy Stanchev, Secretary of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Emil Hristov. The proposed amendments are intended to introduce a classification of dams in accordance with the criteria of the International Commission for Large Dams of Large Dams and Small Dams. The introduction of a classification of dams according to the criteria of the International Commission for Large Dams of Classification of dams and degrees of potential danger shall be introduced. The dams are classified into a three-stage scale of potential danger depending on the risk assessment of human victims, economic, social and environmental damage, namely: first high level of potential danger, second significant degree of potential danger and third low level of potential danger. With the introduction of the classification of dams by degrees of potential danger, it is intended to determine a different frequency of controls by the control authorities, which will lead to the possibility of the efforts of the human resource involved in carrying out checks to be aimed at maintaining and operating dams and facilities to them, whose destruction can lead to human sacrifices and significant material damage. The right of owners to declare to the President of the DAMN their wish to proceed to the eradication and/or decommissioning of the dams and their facilities shall be granted. With the introduction of this regime, it is intended to regulate the process of eradication of dams only and only at the will of their owners. It aims to prevent the self-destruct of the facilities without taking into account the public interest and their ability to be used in the future for the purposes of irrigation or fire extinguishing. It is intended to establish a state-owned enterprise to operate complex management of dams, public and private state ownership, to maintain dams and facilities to them in their proper condition and their safe operation. The legal possibility is envisaged for the municipalities, owners of dams that do not have sufficient financial resources, to maintain the dams and their facilities in proper technical condition to ensure their safe operation, to transfer their property to the State and to be provided for the management and management of the state enterprise. In cases where forced administrative measures may be applied, their kind, their method of application and their order of appeal shall be laid down. Persons should be designated to bring enforcement measures into force. The Final Provisions proposed amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, the Law on the Restoration of Property on Forests and Land from the Forest Fund and the Law on Structure of the Area, which are due to the proposed amendments to the Water Act. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, and proposals are made in their opinions to refine separate provisions between the two amendments to the bill. On the part of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, support was expressed for the Law, paying attention to the need to refine the provisions of § 24 and § 30 of the project relating to the award on behalf of and on behalf of the municipalities of repair and restoration activities of dams - municipal property, by a commercial company with state participation and the transfer of the ownership of municipal dams to the State. During the discussion the MPs supported the need for the proposed amendments to the Law and shared the need to refine individual provisions, including the texts on which there are objections from the municipalities. It is appropriate to provide for the possibility for municipalities which retain the ownership of dams owned by them to be able to directly entrust the State undertaking to carry out the necessary repair activities on the dams and their facilities with a view to maintaining them in a proper technical condition, ensuring their safe operation. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 16 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u105	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u106	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Marinov Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. At its regular meeting held on 16 May 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. The meeting was attended by: Lachezar Borisov (Deputy Minister of Economy), Petar Gornovski (President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision), representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Energy. The bill presented by the National Representative Emil Hristov was drawn up as a result of the need to overcome potential risks to the population, infrastructure and the environment, which could occur in the event of possible destruction of dams. This requires action to be taken to repair and restore potentially dangerous dams and facilities. The ownership of the dams is governed by the Water Act. So far they are 5,700, of which 4523 are owned by the municipalities. Due to their limited financial resources, some municipalities cannot maintain facilities in a technical condition to ensure their safe operation. Therefore, the Bill provides for the creation of a state-owned undertaking within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which implements complex management of dams, public and private property, and to be transferred the ownership of these dams free of charge. It is also envisaged that the renovation and reconstruction activities of the dams of state and municipal property will be awarded by a commercial company with a hundred per cent state participation as defined by the Council of Ministers. The necessary financial resources for this activity will also be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers, and municipalities will reimburse the costs incurred by the company, unless the municipal council has adopted a decision to transfer the right of ownership to the State free of charge. Similar will be the regime for dams, which are owned and operated by "National electricity company" JSC, "Irrigation systems" EAD, "Zeminvest" EAD, water operators with state or state and municipal participation in the capital, but only when they currently do not have the funds for this. A list of repair and reconstruction activities will be developed on the basis of the control activities carried out by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. Written opinions in support of the Bill were received by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. In a written opinion from the Ministry of Environment and Water, they express their principled support under the Bill, but in order to avoid non-compliance with the objectives and principles of the Water Act, they offer editing of some of the texts. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Marinov Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Following an importer's opinion. Mr. Christov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start the presentation by going back a little bit in time. Two thousand and fourteen years is marked by floods and disasters that cause enormous material damage, and they take human sacrifices. In about 40 days the country has been achieved by more than 10 violent floods. They provoke the government to initiate amendments to the Water Act. The Law defines the ownership of the dams, which is public state. It is necessary to carry out the maintenance activities of dams in proper technical condition by an operator who has the necessary professional qualifications. Such activities may be carried out by both the owner himself when he holds such a qualification and by another person under a contract with the owner. The regulatory changes also introduced control over the implementation of the measures to maintain the dams and facilities to them in proper technical condition so that maximum safety of the engineering facilities is achieved. As a result of a control activity carried out by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, the presence of not less than 5700 dams was found and 4523 of them are owned by the municipalities. The checks found that around 2000 sites did not meet the criteria for a dam, although the public municipal property acts were carried out on documents. The current bill aims to specify and specify the concept of the dam, which will not affect the safety of the facilities, but will reduce their number. This will enable municipalities to spend the funds to maintain a smaller number of dams, which will also lead to more quality maintenance of the facilities. For the implementation of more effective state control over the state of dams and facilities, the following amendments are proposed. First, another case of public municipal property is introduced on water sites and water and farm systems and facilities, including dams, which is linked to the refusal of ownership of land on which dams are built. The Agency's practice shows that in restoring the ownership of agricultural land and land from the forest fund, and such land on which dams are built has also been rebuilt. This led to a number of cases where the ownership of the facilities belonged to five, six or even more owners who under the Water Act were obliged to maintain the dam as a technical facility and appoint an operator. When the inspectors of the State Agency carry out a check of such a dam and give orders to the owners, the latter estimate that it is cheaper to give up their property than to maintain it. The property law provides for the possibility for the owner, in this case, to continue to take care of the dam, but the legislation in force does not regulate how this can be done. It provides for the possibility to acquire the immovable property by limitation, which is, however, ten years old. With the adoption of the proposed amendments, the municipality, becoming the owner of these dams, will have the opportunity to benefit from the legal opportunities offered by the Water Act by providing the dam of concession and thus ensuring the technicality and safe operation of the facilities. In addition, the Law explicitly provides for the possibility for dam owners and their facilities to assign emergency plans to dam operators. The aim is to give greater freedom to the owners of the dams and, above all, to the municipalities. The proposed amendments to the Water Act achieve synchronization between the provisions of two legislative acts of the same degree. The Water Act and the Disaster Protection Act. It is also proposed to introduce a classification of the dams of the "big" and "small" dams with certain parameters. Such classification has not been made at this time. Its introduction also enables the provision of requirements regarding their maintenance in proper technical condition and the provision of safe operation. A classification of dams by degree of potential hazard is introduced which is inextricably linked to the classification of dams in terms of their size. Large and small dams are intended to be classified in terms of their potential danger. Classified in a three-stage potential hazard scale: first high, second significant, and third low. The bill provides for the criteria for classifying the degree of potential danger to be defined in a regulation of the interdepartmental commission to be appointed by the Council of Ministers. The classification of dams with regard to their potential danger will be carried out by the committee appointed by the regional governors. Next, a change is proposed in the composition of the committees appointed by the regional governors for annual audits of the technical and operational status of the dams and their facilities. Their composition includes representatives of the municipality concerned, which is directly affected by the Commission's activities. The right of owners to declare to The President of the State Agency wishes to proceed to the eradication and/or decommissioning of dams and facilities. It aims to prevent the self-voluntarily and solely at the will of the owner the destruction of the facilities, without taking into account the public interest and their ability to be used in the future for the purposes of irrigation or fire extinguishing. Next, cases where forced administrative measures may be applied, their kind, their method of application and their order of appeal shall be regulated. Persons should be designated to bring enforcement measures into force. The Final Provisions propose amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, the Law on the Recovery of Property on Forests and Land from the Forest Fund and the Law on Structure of the Area, which are due to the proposed amendments to the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! We from BSP, in general, support the spirit of the Law, which is offered by importers. It is that the state should not raise its hands at all, but, on the contrary, take on what is inherent in the state and carry out its duties. Regarding the economic operator who will manage these dams, we have concerns that are following. There is a proposed management by state-owned companies, which we think is wrong, because such a trading company will not have a particularly serious profit capacity. Our advice to importers is to be a state enterprise. As you know, it has the opportunity when spending public funds to work even at a slight profit so that it can carry out its duties. Otherwise, if we stop at the option of a trading company, we risk it going bankrupt even after the first year. In order to avoid bankruptcy and further problems in the functioning of the economic operator who will manage these dams, the best option is to do so through a state enterprise. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u111	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Hristov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u112	Thank you, Madam President. To clear up the misunderstanding that constantly appears in connection with the state enterprise. It's a state enterprise. It is unlikely that the state will allow itself to go in the direction of bankruptcy, moreover that if you look carefully at the Law, there will be a reimbursement of the funds of dams that are in danger and which municipalities cannot use. Let us not rush a priori to diagnose this state enterprise. A meaningful analysis shows that there will actually be an opportunity for profit. That's my line. If you can in any way disprove, but we have argued enough in the Commission and representatives of the Ministry of Economy have joined the changes. I myself started with skepticism towards the state enterprise, but after several times discussing its place, role, financing and follow-up, I believe that this is the only possible solution at the moment so as not to allow municipalities that do not have financial resources and repair opportunities to allow their dams to cause any damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u114	Mr. Hristov, this is exactly what I am trying to explain to you to avoid further dangers from bankruptcy. The concept is as follows: no trading company can operate and register year after year of negative results. However, a state-owned undertaking can afford it by spending public resources. We are trying to give you advice to protect this economic operator from further negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Dear colleagues, an exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative on the occasion of the anniversary of the destruction of Hristo Botev. The presented works from the Art Gallery's Art Gallery (Ivan Funev) presented a familiar and at the same time new image of the poet and revolutionary. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Ladies and gentlemen, a 30-minute break is to be followed, and then we will continue with the speeches of the European Parliament and with the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u116	Mr. Veselinov has made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor only to support, on behalf of the United Patriarchs, the current bill, as I can say that this is perhaps one of the most important bills we are looking at this season. It is a function of activity by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which posed the problem in the late autumn of last year, was the subject of discussion in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, was also the subject of a working meeting which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Ministry of Home Affairs had with the management of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Then this bill was further developed by a working group, which Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov created and which ultimately gave its final look. Along with the many problems that we initially solved, we are talking about the categorization of the dams, about the clearer responsibilities and that municipalities cannot be forever in a state of guilt and therefore receive fees from the control bodies without having the opportunity to actually implement some of their powers in the management of the dams. The fundamental and the new is that the state authorities for the first time expressed their desire to commit to the problem, said the creation of this state-owned enterprise and, in fact, the option that so far existed.. to have no one's dams is dropping out. As a result of a general review of all the dam facilities, of their categorization, we will have absolute clarity on who is responsible for what. Moreover, we will also have a budget-funded enterprise, which will carry out the state care of the dams, that is to say, all the prerequisites for overcoming them. Unfortunately, the many negative cases that have led to floods and to dozens of people who have suffered, let me not list them all who are seeking responsibility from someone, but actually have no one to receive it, will remain in the past, if indeed this system we are proposing is listed in the Law, it works. That is why I think that we will give a good signal to the municipalities and to the population and, in fact, we will show that the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian government are very responsible for solving a problem that has not been solved for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! We from BSP also supported the commission this bill. We are pleased that indeed everything we have spoken in the years, much of it finds its embodiment in these texts. What is this law? I would just say a few words: it gives a clearer regulation of ownership, gives an opportunity which we have constantly talked about to municipalities, which until now with the obligations they had under the Water Act, neither had money nor had the administrative capacity to deal with their replaced duties, which has been referred to more than once in committee or by this tribune. We have always alerted the state and government when, as a result of accidents caused by a disaster, major material damage has been caused, a huge risk to people's lives and health, so that such consequences do not occur when people are dead and people are drowned. We know the examples. We support the fact that at last there is a clear definition of the concept of the dam and what is the dam, because until now there have been some goons, where ducks are bathed or grazed around the village, which should also have a place to drink water and we assign to the mayor to check, control, spend money on whether or not they exist, or have the relevant competent specialists to exercise that control. It is really delightful that large commitments of owners will be dropped in the face of municipalities with this regulation. We also support the assessment that is given to all dams in its three degrees: We have heard from both the importers and the reports: a small dam, which is dangerous, may also not be excluded from this control. It is good that the control eliminates duplication, especially with the involvement of pool directorates in some of the committees. It is good that every committee has a representative of the municipalities. A little clarification for most of our colleagues if they have not understood this is a state enterprise. There are two entities: a state enterprise and a commercial company. The State-owned enterprise is what will be the long-term owner of the dams, and the commercial company is what will do the repairs and maintenance of this property itself. The importers said that the municipal councils of all municipalities were given a period to take their decisions, of course, after the entry into force of the Law, with which to provide this state enterprise with ownership. The metrology agency still has work to do. She really did a lot of work as a unit that controls the dams, but still opens new and new dams with vague property. I suppose this process will continue. Finally, I say to you, Madam President, to honourable Members, that we will sincerely and heartily support this law, because we see many of the policies and our ideas, I say once again, embodied through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Any lines to Mr. Genov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, too, would like to say from the outset that the parliamentary group of the European Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Water Act at first reading. In general, the bill contains quite good proposals, but it is clear from the text presented that the preparation or collection of texts from separate provisions, or from working groups, show that a lot of texts between first and second readings need legal and technical editing. It is not clear why municipalities have only the right to judge once that they have no means to maintain their dams and give them up for the benefit of the state?! If, for example, a municipality at this time has sufficient resources and opportunities to maintain the dam concerned, but subsequently becomes in difficulty, it is deprived of such an opportunity and the provisions of this text in such a case really do not make sense. Our other remark is regarding the committee that would be appointed by the district governor. It is detailed what representatives should have, but I think it is correct to indicate between first and second reading that specific specialists with the relevant profile need to be there in order to achieve the objectives, because otherwise listed by each of the representations can go, say, a lawyer who is not familiar with the particular matter may go there and another technical person who is not familiar with it. In this regard, perhaps to a large extent the criteria, which is a step positive and forward, the team that works at the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, have the respective competences, but in general, a very serious competence is required here in order to have the relevant solutions in order to achieve the objectives. And the goals need to be achieved because these problems have been on everyone's heads, our entire community, given that they have happened at different times. What is happening as a legislative change is due to the efforts, positive and negative experience of the government in our country. It is high time, and I welcome that there should be such a serious classification on the basis of which the state, municipalities and all of us should pay attention, especially with a view to prevention, not to happening disasters and disasters. With regard to the provisions governing the establishment of a public undertaking and the management of dams: to make serious efforts; to clarify what is the mandate and status of the person who will manage this office; the profile of the specialists who will work there; what labour law relations they will have; how they will be appointed. All this, of course, and the comments I make, can be complemented by the representatives of the relevant ministries. We would like to be as constructive and benevolent as possible in order to achieve the objectives of settling better relations related to the exploitation of the dams on our part. This could also be achieved with the proposals of MPs. In general, the proposal for the classification of dams, dams, depending on the size, of the degree of potential danger is good, but it seems necessary to clarify and indicate a little more and more specific criteria on the basis of which they will be defined as such. It is really necessary and I call on the importers and all of us between first and second reading to review absolutely all the texts and what needs to be completed, in order to make a good classification, to create an undertaking that will function and enable municipalities to rule on how to transmit from management the dams concerned, as I pointed out at the outset, and in this regard to making the necessary corrections to the texts. I hope that with joint efforts we will be able to achieve a common law and I suggest we refrain from qualifications, to attribute authorship to one or another parliamentary group, because this problem is very serious and we know what the consequences of serious disasters are throughout the country. Once again, we express our constructive and well-meaning approach, and we will make the necessary efforts to achieve some good texts that will be for better settlement of relations in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Vasileva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I am speaking to express the full support of GERB's parliamentary group for the bill. I'm also speaking as part of the importers. I also speak as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Waters, where this bill has been considered, as well as as as a person engaged in the recent past as a member of the executive body in the development of legislative proposals and improvement of legislation relating to flood prevention, risk management and protection of citizens and critical infrastructure from the harmful effects of water. I would like to start by thanking all my fellow Members for their constructive and consensus approach in supporting this legislative proposal. This isn't the first case like this. I would also like to recall the amendments to the Water Act, which took place in 2015, when in fact a single national control body for hydrotechnical equipment control was designated, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. Then again, with the full support of all the parliamentary groups, these texts were adopted. I believe that the bill is another step that guarantees the commitment, the responsibility of the state for this, first and foremost, to ensure the good maintenance of hydrotechnical facilities, more than 5700 dams are in the country's territory. Their maintenance and good technical condition are a guarantee that no problems will be created that could lead to spills and damage to settlements, no God forbid, victims, destruction of critical infrastructure and property of the citizens in Bulgaria. This is the first objective of the Bill. Define with a clear definition of what the dam is... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u124	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u125	...the introduction of a clear mechanism which provides for the state's commitment to the ownership of these dams, which municipalities do not have the opportunity and do not wish to maintain; the introduction of a mechanism by which the State will be able to take care of the dams that are in the most critical state, through a state enterprise that will take care of it; and last but not least, the improvement of effective control, which is key, the control that will be carried out better by introducing the categorisation of the dams by the control institutions, the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, as well as the regional committees, and all the other institutions that are involved in it. Once again, thank you all for your support. We know that there will be proposals between first and second readings. I express my readiness in a format with commitment and experts where necessary to improve the texts so that this bill, which is another step forward in caring for people and for infrastructure in Bulgaria, will come into force quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-22.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Water Act submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 23 May 2018, Wednesday: I. Question Debates Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. II. Answers to Questions and Questions 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer 1 question from the National Representative Bogdan Botsev. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer 1 question from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nikola Dinkov. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer 9 questions from the MPs Dragomir Stoyan Mirchev; Desislava Atanasova; Manol Genov; Vasil Antonov; Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; Kristina Sidorova; Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavcho Velkov and Manol Genov; and Ivan Mihovski, and 1 question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned answers by 7 days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to 2 questions written by the MPs Lyubomir Bonev; and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to 2 questions with written answer from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; and Nadia Klisurska. In the absence of the country's parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov, Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev are unable to participate because of their commitment to scheduled meetings (sessions) included in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the meeting. Tomorrow, a regular 9:00 p.m. meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
