ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u1	Good morning, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for 28 March 2018: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov on 19 March 2018. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Aleksandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 11 January 2018. 4. Draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates for the election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 23 March 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students. Importers are Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Petar Vitanov, Konstantin Popov, Zhelyo Boychev and Spas Panchev on 22 February 2018. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of art. 50, point (a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and the Protocol amending art. 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. 8. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2018. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) on the continuation of the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South East Europe in Sofia as a Center under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) signed on 10 November 2017 in Paris. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2018. 10. Parliamentary Control "Friday 30 March 2018" at 9.00 pm I put to the vote the so-read draft programme for the National Assembly's work this week. They voted 178 MPs: 156, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 21 March 2018 to 27 March 2918: - Draft decision to amend the Decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Military Academy "Georgi Stoykov Rakovski" in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. Importers are the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence shall lead; - Draft decision to amend the Resolution on the Conversion of the Higher Military Military Military General School of Vasil Levski (Vasil Levski), the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence (Air Force Defence) Panayot Volov and the Higher Staff School of Georgy Benkovski (Vasil Levski) at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence shall lead; - Draft decision to amend the Decision to bring the act for the establishment of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence shall lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Messages: In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 181 of 22 March 2018, authorising the participation of up to 16 servicemen from the National Mobile Information Systems Module of NATO, with their personal armaments and equipment in the NATO mission for preparation, advice and assistance in Afghanistan The notification was received on 23 March 2018, with the exception of: No 802-00-12, and granted to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised passage through the territorial sea, stay in the domestic waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and visit the port of Varna between 28 March and 3 April 2018, including a submarine, a patrol ship and a vehicle of assistance, from the composition of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Turkey. The visit of the ships is informal and is related to their participation in the training of the Republic of Turkey's Navy with international participation. The notification was received on 23 March 2018, with the exception of: No 803-09-13 and granted to the Defence Committee. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2018 has been submitted to the National Assembly with an amendment. The amended Programme was submitted on 23 March 2018 by letter. No 824-00-2, by the President of the Court of Auditors. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Programme was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. For the period 22 March 2018 in the National Assembly received: Report on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' programming budget for 2017; Report on the extent of implementation of the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2017; Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice's programming budget for the period 1 January 2017. 31 December 2017; Report on the level of implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as of 31 December 2017; Report on the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017, detailed Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2017; Report on the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2017; Report on the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2017; Report on the implementation of the programming budgets as of 31 December 2017 of the State Agency The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to allow the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u3	I request a voting regime for the Deputy Minister's admission. Vote 162 MPs: 154 against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Amendment Bill, and Appendix to the Civil Procedure Code, No 802-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018. At its meeting held on 21 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 802-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Milena Parvanova, Director of the Department of the Legal Protection of the Child and International Adoptions and Mrs. Biljana Beljakova, Director of the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs (CEO), Mr. Lozan Panov, Chairman, Mrs. Emmanuela Balevska, Mrs. Iliana Papazova, Mrs. Albena Boneva and Ms. Veronica Nikolova, Judges in the Supreme Court of Cassation. The bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who pointed out that it provides for amendments to the Civil Procedure Code to reflect the new situations in the implementation of European procedures for actions with little material interest and for issuing a European order for payment. He added that the draft law established internal procedural rules on the application of the Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and other family members. Regulation (EU) 2015/2421 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 amending Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure and Regulation (EC) No 1896/2006 establishing a European Payment Order procedure. The amendments shall include changes in the scope of actions of minor material interest, precision of the provision for the revision of the judgment and the provision of a 30-day period for the submission of an application for review under Chapter 24 of the Civil Procedure Code to the Supreme Court of Cassation. The procedure for issuing a European order for payment establishes an explicit provision in the Civil Procedure Code to ensure that the defendant is entitled to request the Supreme Court of Cassation to review the European order for payment under the terms and conditions of Regulation (EC) No 1896/2006. The bill also establishes procedural rules on the application of the Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and other family members adopted by the Hague Conference on Private International Law. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the Convention has been in force with regard to the Republic of Bulgaria since 1 August 2014 and aims to ensure the effective collection of child support and other family members, regardless of the place of origin or fulfilment of the maintenance obligation. He added that the provisions of the Convention provide for the creation of conditions for the real obtaining of maintenance, for access to the proceedings for its recognition, enforcement and challenge. Mr. Panov pointed out that he supports the Bill, but does not share the proposals made with the Law, with which the Supreme Court of Cassation is the competent authority in reviewing the decisions within the framework of European procedures for actions with little material interest and the European order for payment. He pointed out that the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform and the roadmap to it provided for a plan to reduce the workload of the Supreme Court of Cassation and added that the latest changes in legislation aimed at unloading the Supreme Court of Cassation. Ms. Papazova and Ms. Nikolova added that the regulations govern procedures that are formal and relate to indisputable claims and claims of little interest and are therefore not the work of the Supreme Authority. Mr. Stoyanov and Mrs. Belyakova pointed out that representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation took part in the drafting of the Law in the Ministry of Justice and their opinions were taken into account. The Bill has received an opinion from the Supreme Court of Cassation. People's representatives Danail Kirilov, Philip Popov and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. Mr. Kirilov expressed principled support for the Bill and added that the last adopted changes in civil proceedings aimed at the unloading of the Supreme Court of Cassation. He pointed out that he shared the opinion expressed by the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation that the proceedings were formal and resembled the order proceedings in which the regional courts were competent and added that legal arrangements should be sought when adopting the Bill to reflect balanced proceedings between courts. Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the objectives of the Bill, but clarified that he would comply with the general considerations set out by the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Mr. Popov noted that he would refrain from supporting the bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Law Code, No 802-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Honourable Members, come in for a speech if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will abstain at first reading from the support of this bill. We support the position of the Supreme Court of Cassation, with which I will introduce you. In the annexes to the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, the reasons do not contain absolutely no grounds to justify the need for the highest court of law, such as the Supreme Court of Cassation, to review, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the European Union Regulation of 2015, a court order for which the Court of Justice is competent. The ICC's view is that the court competent to review, under the terms and conditions of the Regulation, the judgment given in the context of the European Small Claims Procedure should be the same regional court that ordered it, or possibly the District Court as an appeal, but not the Cassational Court. Moreover, each Member State determines which of the existing courts is competent to rule on the European Small Claims Procedure and for Bulgaria obviously this is the Bulgarian District Court. The implementation of these powers shall not prevent it from being carried out by the same court which is competent to rule on the claim because of exercising the powers under art. 18, he does not review his act in substance, but rule on a different subject matter. This approach has been adopted in many Member States which, within the time limit laid down in art. 25 have adopted this regulation. It is essential that the said norm of art. 18 of the Regulation is in no way comparable to our proceedings against the annulment of a judgment in force, because the annulment is a remedy against vicious decisions in force. It is self-instantial production and by nature, prerequisites, consequences and importance has nothing to do with the content of the quoted art. 18 of the Regulation. The closest analogy in our internal right to the given act in the European Small Claims Procedure is the non-existent decision in accordance with art. 238 and the review of the protection also under the non-existent decision in accordance with art. 240 of the Civil Procedure Code. The cancellation under the order of art. 303 of the GPC is applicable to legal acts in force which benefit from the force of something awarded against which there is another order of protection against which there is unlawfulness. That is to say, only those court decisions issued in competitive proceedings which resolve a substantive legal dispute. For these reasons, I believe that the judiciary in Bulgaria ultimately has a specific structure. The place and tasks of the Supreme Court of Cassation in this system, especially indeed after the changes in the GPC, which aimed to land the Supreme Court of Cassation, is the diametric opposite of the proposed amendments. The same applies to the process of annulment of effective decisions. As regards the proceedings and the admission of enforcement of judgments given in countries and countries under the 2007 Hague Convention, there are also some reservations, some concerns. It's listed in art. 636, para. 3 that the Order of the Bulgarian Court of Recognition matters to a decision given in a lawsuit. Yes, but the order of an act of the court adopted in closed session without a competitive procedure, without the collection of evidence under the Civil Procedure Code of our legislation, you know that the non-payment of alimony is criminalised. It is prosecuted by the state and we assume that in many cases, in very few cases, more precisely, it can come hypothetically and in fact to a case in which a Bulgarian citizen is convicted, to be prosecuted in the state without knowing at all that he is convicted for payment of alimony. For these reasons, of course, we support the spirit and principles of these changes. They are necessary and should enter into our legislation, but not in the way they are described in this bill. Therefore, we will abstain at first reading. I hope that the opinion and proposals from the Supreme Court of Cassation will be taken into account between first and second readings, to clear this bill, but here I fear the procedure between first and second reading, I do not know whether, with the change of jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Cassation with a district court, respectively, we will follow the procedure as it differs from the spirit and principles of first reading of this bill. Therefore, at first reading, we will abstain and I really hope that this bill will be improved in a way that is reflected in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Otherwise, between first and second readings, if it remains in this form, it will have severe consequences for our legal system, for the role and place of the Supreme Court of Cassation, it will be immensely burdened with unqualified responsibilities and tasks, and we cannot support it between first and second reading, that is, at second reading, if these changes are not really made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Popov! The opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation is published on the website of the National Assembly and is available to absolutely all colleagues and to all citizens who would like to be informed of this opinion. I would also like to stress that the debate in the Commission on the position of the Supreme Court has been fully well-meaned and I do not wish that any of the Members in this House would be under the impression that we have had some sort of disagreement on this matter. Although it is clear why the Law of the Council of Ministers initially proposed the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Cassation as a annulment instance, simply because the GPC repeal takes place before the Supreme Court of Cassation. But we also support all the arguments that have been put forward by President Lozan Panov for seeking the landing of the Supreme Court of Cassation and that, since the procedure here, the European order concerns orders of minimal material interest, we should not burden the supreme authority with this. Without polemising, because here I think there is no basis for controversy, I would like to say that we will respect your arguments in the following way: I will propose, if not the longest period for proposals between first and second reading, it is long enough for at least three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, indeed the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation has been published on the website of the Legal Commission, which is the normal procedure, but in part of my speech I have read the arguments of the Supreme Court of Cassation in order to inform all MPs who are now going to vote on this bill because I am adamant that they have hardly all been able to read the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Moreover, it is necessary to hear this opinion here in the Chamber, because it is the Supreme Court of Cassation under the Law that will be the competent Bulgarian court. I hope that you here from this tribune have practically stated that the necessary changes will be made between first and second readings in such a way that indeed the Supreme Court of Cassation will remain in its place in terms of role and tasks in our legal and judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other statements on the bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party do not agree with the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code in view of the gap between the reasons and objectives of the bill and we will abstain from support at first reading. With the procedure offered to us with regard to the Supreme Court of Cassation, without need, the VCC is burdened with an absolutely unqualified activity, which will simultaneously burden it, and will not contribute to the faster handling of cases, nor is it justified by the capacity for some supreme judges to deal with such procedures. The objectives pursued by the Regulation are speed and efficiency in the collection of undisputed monetary liabilities. In the event of undisputed claims the intervention of the highest instance is at least inappropriate because the activities of the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation are to align the caselaw in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and not directly legislate. The Supreme Court of Cassation works with citizens much less than the courts that stand below in the hierarchy and mainly with citizens work with regional and district courts. Taking into account the nature of the proceedings under Regulation No 1896, it comes down to issuing a payment order similar to our ordering procedure, with the only difference that this order for payment can be translated into execution in any Member State of the European Union. The analogy must be implemented by our legislation, namely by the procedure of order, because the internal order of the proceedings of Regulation No 1896 will be introduced most easily and most conveniently for the parties. What happens when we provide for an opportunity to challenge a payment order before the Supreme Court of Cassation under Regulation No 1896? We place the parties addressed to these payment orders in an disadvantaged position vis-à-vis the parties addressed to a national payment which should not address the Supreme Court of Cassation under a more severe and clumsy procedure, but may seek their rights under art. 23 of the Civil Procedure Code. In settling the rules for the development of the ordering proceedings, the legislator has complied with the specifics of the proceedings...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u13	Mr. Baychev, just for a second. Dear colleagues, can we respect Mr. Baychev's speech by keeping a little more quiet, as well as all remaining speeches then by other colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the settlement of the rules for the development of the procedure of order, the legislator has complied with the specifics of the proceedings under the procedure for annulment of judicial acts which have been brought into force, he has considered that a court order for payment does not have the characteristic of a judicial act with which a dispute between the parties is finally resolved. The challenge of such an order shall therefore not pass through the proceedings under the procedure for annulment of art. 103 of the GPC. Therefore, a special procedure has been introduced in which hypotheses similar to the hypotheses at the basis of which the European order for payment under Regulation No 1896 may also be called for. In this sense, we believe that the proceedings existing in the Civil Procedure Code according to the order of art. 423 may be used as a model and this order of procedure may be used to examine the challenge of orders. Another thing that I believe is that the objectives and speed will be effectively achieved when the parties to the orders issued can turn directly with a request for annulment and correction of the order to the court which issued it. In fact, this is also the decision of the other Member States of the European Union, namely: the court which issued the order to examine the request for its review according to the assumptions envisaged. One of these hypotheses made a clear factual error in issuing the order. It is entirely within the jurisdiction of the court which issued an act to make an amendment to it. In this sense, we believe that the production under art. 20 of Regulation No 1896 is most appropriate to proceed before the court which issued the order. These arguments, I suppose, have led to a similar solution in the other state member states of the European Union, and there is no need for us to deviate from this legal regime that is first. Secondly, the subject of the regulation is a small material interest. According to the Civil Procedure Code, however, the Supreme Court of Cassation does not consider cases with little material interest. For him there are restrictions: the price of the claim under which the decisions enter into force and do not reach the Supreme Court of Cassation at all. In addition, the procedure under this Regulation is written. The Supreme Court of Cassation, when communicating with the parties, calls them through the Official Journal. In practice, the Supreme Court of Cassation does not act on correspondence with the parties. These are shortcomings, and precisely these shortcomings are the objectives of new amendments such as speed, access to justice, speeding up procedures. For this reason, electronic notifications are provided in different ways, persons who provide information to the parties are provided for easy access to the judges who carry out the technical activity in practice. This will not make it easier for citizens, but would create new problems that would require the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation to create an unnecessary organisation. I would like to draw attention to the procedure itself, namely: in practice this is sending a form to the parties. The Member State concerned shall complete another form returning it to the court and shall not require such competence from the judges with a large internship of 20 years to deal with such type of cases. On the contrary, according to the current Civil Procedure Code, the regional court is competent, and under that regulation the law due, the order under which the courts are looking is the internal, national order. Our internal, national order is not able to foresee the Supreme Court of Cassation to review the cases of the District Court. There is a district, district, appeals court and it is not clear what the Supreme Court of Cassation requires to review the cases of the district court. In the light of the foregoing, I would like to add that the proposed procedure under Regulation No 1896 and the others will only harass the Bulgarian legislation and will bring us into some ambiguities that will not lead to the desired effect. Thus, the proposed regulation is not synchronised with the rest of the legislation and therefore we will abstain from support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Dear colleagues, do you have any lines for Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we are faced with a procedure for changing the Civil Procedure Code after another procedure which started in May last year and ended in October. The Council of Ministers is now submitting a new bill. I also disagree with my fellow Members to make changes to the Civil Procedure Code in such a rapid, express order: on 12 March the Bill was submitted to the National Assembly and 16 days later the Civil Procedure Code is already in the Chamber. The matter governing the Civil Procedure Code is procedural rules for judicial proceedings. The procedures shall be set up in order to ensure that they comply with the rights and legitimate interests of all citizens. The constant changes to the procedural laws that we make create uncertainty in public relations, devalue law as a public regulator. After all, constant changes in laws and rules cannot replace rights. Changes in rules cannot erase institutions' inability to guarantee rights. Two groups of acts are quoted in the Motives as an argument for the changes that are being proposed to us. The regulations cited by the Council of Ministers are from 2006. The Convention, which is cited, has been in force for Bulgaria since 2014. It is obvious that these documents exist for many years in legal peace and do not impose anything, again I say, this speedy legislation for 16 days since its entry, we look at the Civil Procedure Code. I cannot, in particular, support the philosophy of the Bill, as although it has only been able to give an opinion, to submit in these few days since the introduction of the bill to the Supreme Court of Cassation, it clearly shows that the judges of the civil and commercial college of the court, who are designated to be competent for this bill, indicate and justify the irregularity of this concept. My colleagues had the opportunity to argue in detail. It is not right for the Supreme Court to do things that are performed by first, possibly second instance in other countries. The designation of the competent court is the most important issue in the bill presented to us. It is part of his principled and of his fundamentals. The amendments to the Civil Procedure Code should result from in-depth analyses, from a preliminary assessment of the impact they would have on the administration of justice and on public relations in full. Such express legislation, once again challenged by the professional community, we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u17	Thank you, dear colleague Milkov. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any lines to your colleague's statement? Any other speeches? I put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. They voted 115 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PAYING IN NUMBER.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm putting your attention to it. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash, No 854-01-18, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov on 19 March 2018. At a meeting held on 22 March 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister, and Svetla Kostova Director of the Department of State Treasure and the Agency of Road Infrastructure. Veselin Davidov a member of the Management Board, and Dimitar Petkov a director of the Directorate of Budget, finance and payments for projects. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The proposed bill ensures the possibility of servicing the card payments for the collection of revenue and other proceeds of the budgetary organizations under art. 153, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the Public Finance Act and of their sub-departmental authorising officers with a budget to be carried out by means of a centralised approach on accounts in the Bulgarian National Bank. Such an approach shall apply to the servicing of card payments under the public claims administered by the National Revenue Agency under the current art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on limitation of cash payments. The realization of this opportunity will optimize the administration of the revenues of the budgetary organizations as the amounts will be directly entered into the intended account in the Bulgarian National Bank instead of in bank accounts and their subsequent transfer to the accounts of the Bulgarian National Bank. For natural and legal persons, the new possibility of payment of the amounts due by them for fees or fees of administrative services to the relevant budgetary organisations will be a convenient and free method of payment. The Law also provides an addition to art. 10, para. 6 of the Roads Act, allowing this way for centralized collection of income in an account in the Bulgarian National Bank, through card payments, to be applied when collecting the revenue from tol-taxes under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act. The inclusion of this provision is appropriate with a view to launching the Tol-Tax Building Project and the significant effect of administering these revenues in view of their size. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held where representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Road Infrastructure Agency and the members of the Commission expressed support for the Bill. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash, No 854-01-18, submitted by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov on 19 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Procedure Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I am making a procedure for admission to the hall of Mr. Veselin Davidov Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u21	Thank you. A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. 99 MPs voted: 96, against 1, abstention 2. Please invite Mr. Davidov to the hall. Following is a report on the same bill, reviewed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, which will be presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Iskren Veselinov. Here you are, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash, No 854-01-18, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov At a regular meeting held on 22 March 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash, No 854-01-18, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov on 19 March 2018. In the Commission meeting took part: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Veselin Davidov, Member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and experts from the Agency. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. The proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law on limitation of payments in cash provide a new opportunity for the Bulgarian National Bank's budgetary organisations and their sub-departmental authorising officers with a budget for collection of revenue by means of card payments. It is similar to that regulated by art. 4, para. 3 of the Law centralized approach to the services of card payments of revenue administered by the NRA through an account in BNB, which has been effectively applied since the beginning of 2018. The realization of this new opportunity by the budgetary organisations will optimize the administration of their revenue, as the amounts will directly enter into a planned BNB account and will avoid the collection of these funds through bank accounts and subsequent transfer to BNB accounts. For natural and legal persons with the proposed supplement of the Law another free and convenient way of payment of amounts due to them on the budgets of budgetary organizations is created. The broad application in the public sector of card payments is aimed at reducing the financial burden on consumers in making payments to fees due or administrative services prices, optimizing insular payments in the public sector and reducing the costs associated with the servicing of cash payments. The Law also provides an addition to Art. 10, para. 6 of the Roads Act, which regulates the possibility of centralized collection of income on an account in BNB through card payments to be applied in the collection of revenue from tol-taxes under art. 10, para 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act. The inclusion of such a provision is appropriate, given the launch of the Tol-Tax System and the need for a specific approach to collect such revenue, as well as the positive effect in the administration of such revenue, given their significant size. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Road Infrastructure Agency expressed their views in support of the bill. During the discussion the MPs supported the need for the proposed amendments to the Law. On specific questions asked by Commissioners concerning the practical implementation of card payments in the operation of the tol-tax collection system, representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency (IAI) made explanations on the organisation and technical implementation of innovations. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate on the bill. Please come in for a statement if you wish. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm putting the bill to the first vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote the bill to be voted on at second reading in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there an obnoxious suggestion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote on the bill. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 2, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will present it as there are no amendments and no proposals. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the law on limitation of cash payments § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. The payment of card payments for the collection of revenue and other revenue of the budgetary organisations referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be subject to the following conditions: 153, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the Public Finance Act and of their subordinate authorising officers with a budget on accounts served by the Bulgarian National Bank may be carried out by the payment system operator with finality of settlement under para. 2 on the basis of a contract concluded between him and the corresponding budgetary organisation. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. 1 and 4 shall be carried out and shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1, 4 and 5 may be carried out. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. 4 and 5 and 5 are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 4, 5 and 6. 4. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. 1, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, three, five, and six. 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the figure Final provision § 2. In the Law on Roads (promise, SG...) in art. 10, para. A sentence 2 shall be created: The services of card payments for the collection of the proceeds under para. 1, t. 2 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2. 4, para. 5 of the Law on the limitation of payments in cash
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. There is no difference in the whole text of § 1 and § 2, as I read them. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote, first, the text of the importer on the name of the Law; second, the text of § 1 by importer; third, the text of the importer on the name of the Final provision; and the text of § 2 by importer, as presented by the rapporteur. They voted 105 MPs: 97, none, abstention 8. The proposals are adopted, with which the whole text is adopted, the whole Bill at second reading. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LIGHTING AND STANDING OF THE STANDING GENERAL. Entered by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 754-01-67, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. On 11 January 2018, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a decision on the adoption of this Decision by the European Parliament, the Council and the Council on the adoption of this Decision. The Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality was amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the wording of the importers on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u29	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importers on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u30	There is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 5 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1, with a text proposed by the Commission presented by the rapporteur. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u32	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 1 index (s) is deleted; (b) c. the 2 index (s) is deleted; (c) c. the 3 index (smph) is deleted; (d) c. 4 after the word "the areas' is added to the list and the index "the regions' is deleted; (e) c. 5 the word "self-standing' and the index "H' are deleted; (f) c. 6 after the word "Sa' is added, and the index "Sa' is deleted; (g) c. 7 after the word "the regions', the index "the areas' is added and the index "the C' is deleted; (h) c. 8 after the word "zones' is added to the list and the index "d' is deleted; (i) c. point 9 (b) is replaced by the following: (k) c. the 10 index sssssss (T)ssss (T)s) is deleted; (l) c. 11 indexes (J-D, O-D, Smf-D, P-D, Z-D, Sa-D) are deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1, which shall become § 2. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u34	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 2 which shall become § 3. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4. ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 1 index (s) is deleted; (b) c. the 2 index (smph) is deleted; (c) c. the 3 index (s) is deleted; (d) c. the 4 index (s) is deleted; (e) c. 5 after the word "the regions', the index "the regions' is added for specific sectors and the index "the regions' is deleted; (f) c. the 6 index (s) is deleted; (g) c. 7 after the word "Sa', the index "Sa' is deleted; (h) c. the 8 index (s) is deleted; (i) c. Point 9 (b) is replaced by the following: 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u35	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer for § 2 which becomes § 3 and which is supported by the Commission. The second text is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3, which becomes § 4. Voted 103 MPs: 92, none, abstention 11. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u36	Mr. Chairman, before I go any further, if you'll allow us to put to the vote a pass in the hall of Deputy Minister Valentine Yovev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u37	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Jobev to enter the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u38	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1: (aa) in the text before the letter (s) the index (s) shall be deleted; (bb) in point (c) in point (dd) in point (d) the following point shall be inserted after the word (s) and the index (s) shall be deleted; (b) c. 2: (aa) in the text before the letter (s) the index (sm) is deleted; (bb) a new letter is created (s): (s) mixed multifunctional zone; (c) the previous letter................................................................... is................................................... (b) a mixed multi-functional construction zone with the parameters required; (b) a mixed multi-functional construction area with the parameters required; (c) (dd) the previous letter "b" shall become a letter "in" and shall be amended as follows: (c) a mixed multifunctional construction site mainly for the urban area; (c) c. 3 the words "public service' shall be replaced by the words "public service activities' and the index "of public service services' shall be deleted; (d) c. the 4 index (s) is deleted; (e) c. 5 after the word "zones', "areas' shall be added and the index "s' shall be deleted; (f) c. 6 after the word "Sa' is added, and the index "Sa' is deleted; (g) c. 7 the words "design zones and land areas' shall be replaced by "territories'; (h) c. the 8 index (s) is deleted. 2. Alinei 2, 3, 4 and 5 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u39	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 4, which shall become § 5. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u40	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Green System is a set of plots provided for in the general planning plan and/or in a detailed spatial plan for landscaped areas for wide public use for sustainable public use and the landscaped areas in the urban and urban areas, as well as the areas for natural protection, forest and land protection, recreation and forests and lesopards. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the word "s' is replaced by "s' and the index "s' is deleted; (b) c. the 2 index (s) is deleted; (c) c. 3 after the word the Union is replaced by a comma and the index is deleted; (d) c. 4 the words of the residents of the residences shall be deleted after the word "ethnographic" and the words "other gardens" shall be replaced by "balneological sites and other premises" and the index "Tsp" shall be deleted; (e) c. the 5 index (s) is deleted; (f) c. 6 after the word "the regions', the index "the areas' is added and the index "the regions' is deleted; (g) c. the 7 index (s) is deleted; (h) c. 8 after the word "areas" shall be added for widespread public use. (i) create t. 9, 10, 11 and 12: Nine. terrains for bases of the green system; 10. Nature reserves; 11. Nature parks; 12. protected areas and natural landmarks. 3. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The Green System also includes the Natural Park of Vitosha, as well as the parks, Lesokparks and forests in the fences of the Sofia Field Mountains of Lozenska, Lyulin, Plana and Stara Planina Mountain, in the administrative and territorial boundaries of Sofia Municipality. (4) Landscaped areas for wide public use shall be provided with detailed spatial plans in the spatial areas and the separate lands of the green system under para. Two and three. With detailed spatial plans approved by the Sofia Municipal Council, landscaped areas for wide public use can also be allocated in other spatial areas for the preservation of existing landscaping, realized outside the urban areas and the private areas of the green system. 4. A new para is being created. 5. The general planning plan and the annex to art. 3, para. 2 minimally landscaped area in the spatial areas outside the areas referred to in para. 2 and 3 is for limited public use and complements the green system. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it, the word "supplied" is replaced by "approved" and the words "supplied" are recognized as "supplied" and replaced by "supplied" are considered to be "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u41	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 5, which shall become § 6. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u42	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The purpose of the construction zones and separate terrains of the green system under art. 10, para. 2 and 3, as well as the purpose of land-based properties falling within them, may only be changed in a spatial area or in a private area of the green system of another kind under art. 10, para. 2 in intended use only in those areas and terrains. 3. In para. 3 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u43	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 7 on the Commission's report. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u44	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following 1. Points 3 and 4 are amended as follows: "3." open sites for sports or cultural activities; 4. Playgrounds. 2. They're creating a t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. Moveable objects under art. 56 of the Law on Construction in the Area, which cannot occupy more than 10 percent of the area of the property; 6. monumentally decorative and informational elements under art. 57 of the Law on the Construction of the Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u45	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 8 of the Commission's report. Vote 113 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u46	The Commission supports the wording of the importers for § 8, which becomes § 9. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 9, which shall become § 10. According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version of §10 which becomes §11: ..................................................... Article 16 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u47	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 8, which shall become § 9; § 9, which shall become § 10; § 10, which shall become § 11 of the Commission's report. They voted 112 MPs: 93, none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u48	According to § 11 there is a proposal from Julian Angelov. In § 11 of Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 d.o.b. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 16 (1) In corner regulated land estates with related basic construction of the two side adjustment lines, the density of the construction is not limited and exceed the building intensity as follows: 1. In regulated land estates with an area of up to 500 square meters, up to 3,5 times the permissible building intensity; 2. In regulated land estates with an area of up to 1500 square meters up to 1.75 times the permissible building intensity; 3. In regulated land estates with an area of up to 3000 square meters up to 1,4 times the permissible building intensity; 4. In regulated land estates with an area of more than 3000 square meters, up to 1.2 times the permissible building intensity. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point Proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova. In § 11, in art. Sixteen years, huh? 1 words when the words are less than 500 sq.m. are replaced by the requirements for height of buildings through street and the territory defined with height of buildings, according to the Annex to art. 3, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal of the Commission. 1, 2, 3 and 4. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 point (b) and point (c) of Article 2 (1) 6. The Commission does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal. 1 letter (s), and under point (c) of Article 2 (1) 2, 3, 4 and 5. The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 11: 1. in the creations art. 16b: (a) in para. 1 in a sentence first after the word "normal's" a point shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence.............................................................................................. 2. in the creations art. 16c, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: In the high construction areas the construction of dwellings or buildings with residential functions is not allowed. 3. in the creations art. 16d, para. 1 at the end of the text, after the words "sq. m is a comma and is added to at least two calcanes of neighbouring regulated land properties. 4. in the creations art. 16e, para. 1 at the end of the text, after the word 5. in the creations art. 16f, para. 1 at the end of the text, after the word.... and public discussion................................................................................................ Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7: "2." Art. 16b is deleted; 3. Art. 16c is deleted. 4. Art. 16 years is deleted; 5. Art. 16d. 2 is deleted; 6. Art. 16f is deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16g the expression "The Community Council of Expertise on the Structure of the Area" is replaced by the "Municipality Council." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 16a, 16b, 16c, 16e: Art. 16a. (1) Specific rules and regulations shall be drawn up for areas with environmental, geological, socio-ethnic and infrastructure problems in relation to the detailed design plans where additional restrictions relating to the construction are imposed on the opinion of the relevant specialised bodies. The specific requirements for the construction parameters are set out in the form of the "Securities and plots with construction modes in a deviation from the general structure plan and requiring specific rules and norms' to the schemes of the general construction plan of Sofia Municipality. (2) The specific rules and regulations shall be drawn up and approved together with the detailed planning plans. (3) In its graphical part of the general plan of Sofia Municipality in M 1:10,000 and M 1:25 000, as well as in the annex to art. 3, para. 2 territories under para. 1 shall be marked with an asterisk placed after the letter index of the spatial area concerned. Art. 16b. (1) In the general construction plan, construction areas for very high construction can be defined, where the height of the buildings is not limited.. (2) The density and intensity of construction in the areas under para. 1 shall be determined and proved by a detailed design plan including a work plan. Art. 16c. (1) In all construction areas connected construction is permitted in more than two regulated land properties. In a residential area with predominantly small-story building, in a residential area with small-story building in the natural environment, in a residential area with small-story building with additional, specific requirements, in a residential area with small-story building, with restrictive parameters, in a villa area, as well as in regulated land properties with an area of over 3000 sq. m, in corner regulated land estates with related basic construction of the two side lines, no exceeding the maximum allowed for the area concerned density and intensity of construction shall be allowed. (2) Outside the cases under para. 1, in corner regulated land estates with related basic construction of the two side adjustment lines, the density of construction is not limited and the permissible exceeding the maximum building intensity is to: 1. one hundred for regulated land properties with an area of up to 500 sq. m; 2.50 per cent for regulated land properties with an area over 500 sq. m to 1500 sq. m; 3. Twenty-five percent - for regulated land properties with an area of more than 1500 sq. m to 3000 sq. m. (3) Paragraph 2 shall not apply where the regulated land property has a face to two streets, one of which is deadlocked. Art. 16 years old. (1) For buildings with a height of more than 75 meters, detailed design plans include a mandatory working plan. (2) The detailed design plans under para. 1 are approved by the Sofia Municipal Council. Art. 16e. (1) For the approval of detailed development plans providing for the construction of common services buildings with an area of more than 20 000 sq. m. and/or height above 50 metres is required to demonstrate transport and communication provision on the territory on the basis of research, analysis and simulation of transport services taking into account existing and future traffic within sufficient scope for service. (2) The Sofia Municipal Council shall adopt a regulation for carrying out research, analysis and simulation of transport services.'
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u49	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the unsupported proposals. Firstly, the proposal of the MP Julian Angelov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 118 MPs: 15 against 16, 87 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 124 MPs: 42, against 10, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the unsupported proposals of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs and these are the proposals for § 11 in the section under point. 1 (s) under point (a) of Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 2, 3, 4 and 5. They voted 130 MPs: 40, against 25, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] Declaration? Wait until we finish the voting procedure and then. We remain to vote on Mr. Spas Panchev's unsupported proposal in points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, which the Commission does not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u50	Madam President, there is one problem for the protocol................................... 65 and not 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u51	They voted 130 MPs: 41, against 23, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Here my colleagues suggested that Mrs. Ninova's previous vote was not abstention 66 but was 65. Please report this to the record. I shall put to the vote the version of § 11, which shall become § 12 on the Commission's report. They voted 131 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. Mr. Veselinov will have a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, so we will stop reading a little bit. Welcome for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Political party GERB has always declared its readiness to fight corruption, smuggling and tax fraud. The NRA has admitted that billions of levs are the sum of the audit acts that have been found to abuse VAT. So far, however, there is no evidence that tax collection, through the fight against fraud, has increased. This suggests that the political party GERB does not fulfil its political commitments to its voters and there is no real data to combat the grey sector. This money is vital for areas such as health, education, social policy and overcoming inequalities. All this seems absurd and extremely disturbing against the backdrop of the statements of Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, who at the end of last week admitted that the battle of the Ministry against VAT abuse is daily. Minister Goranov also said that the Finance Ministry has made many legal changes related to reducing the possibility of unfair and incorrect traders avoiding payment of VAT by transferring ownership to underprivileged citizens, eliminating the state's ability to collect its revenues. The fact is that the announced measures do not work and do not result in the desired result is that money does not enter the treasury. It is no secret to anyone that cases of large-scale VAT and other taxes usually end against an unknown perpetrator. One of the fracturing cases for VAT fraud became publicly known through the media in Blagoevgrad. Shortly before being elected as the municipal coordinator of GERB, Gotse Delchev, the national representative Dimitar Gamishev transferred his company to Gamishev. Moreover, it is said that the company with two leva capital, registered in Lovech, is a company with two leva capital. "Shipka" 5a. Data in the Trade Register show that a total of 23 companies are registered at the same address! Besides, at least ten, if not more of the companies are indebted to the NRA with large amounts! Until now "Gamishev" "SCB" Ltd. is listed on the list of the major debtors of the NRA, which has no property on which precautionary measures can be imposed. The company owes the treasury nearly 200 thousand leva and is added to the disgraceful list of the NRA. For us it is a complete mystery how the registration of the sale of the company in the Registry Agency was made, since it is among the major debtors of the country. National Representative Dimitar Gamishev of the Political Party GERB represents the hypocritical policy of GERB. If you are a member of GERB you can not pay taxes, commit smuggling, transport Sudjutsi and manage district centers...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u53	Mr. Boshkov, I ask you to respect your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u54	...this vicious understanding of the policy making by GERB is the main reason for Bulgaria to be pointed as the most corrupt member of the European Union and not to be accepted in Schengen and the Eurozone. It is unacceptable for us to have a political umbrella over MPs from the Political Party GERB who do not comply with the Law. We demand that GERB's leadership decide on the case of Dimitar Gamishev, which will meet the interests of Bulgarian citizens. When it is claimed that the fight against corruption and smuggling is real and there are billions of levs missing from the state treasury, and it is declared that serious measures are being taken to change that. The first thing to be done by the governors of GERB is to look into their own garden and root the weeds out of it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. We'll continue with the report. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u56	According to § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 17 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u57	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 12, which shall become § 13, and the Commission shall not support the text of the importers. They voted 111 MPs: for 85, against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u58	Didn't we just vote #13?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u59	Sorry, I'm distracted. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u60	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev: the following point is inserted after point 13 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 17a and 17b: Art. 17a. (1) The detailed planning plans for the restructuring of residential complexes in residential areas with predominantly complex construction cannot be modified within 5 years of their entry into force in terms of the nature of construction... from low to medium and/or high and medium to high construction. (2) Exemptions from the rule under para. 1 shall only be allowed if a change in the overall design plan provides for a territory area other than a residential area with predominantly complex construction. Art. 17b. (1) The specific requirements for the face of urban spaces, buildings and architectural ensembles shall be determined by a regulation of the Sofia Municipal Council. (2) By the ordinance under para. 1 The additional requirements for the volume and content of the detailed planning plans and investment projects for new buildings, reconstruction, construction and upgrade and major repairs of buildings and facilities, streets, squares and landscaped areas related to the building of urban spaces, the conservation and storage of architectural
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 13, which shall become § 14 on the Commission's report. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, cancel the vote because I am putting to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev. They voted 119 MPs: 43, against 19, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 13, which shall become § 14 on the Commission's report. They voted 112 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u62	According to § 14 there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version of § 14, which becomes § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 18 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u63	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 14, which shall become § 15, and the Commission shall not support the text of the importers. They voted 113 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u64	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Julian Angelov: "18a" is amended as follows: Art. 18a. In the construction of new buildings with a built-up area of more than 5000 square meters, the investment project provides places for the deployment of separate waste collection facilities, except where, within 200 metres of the newly built building, separate waste collection facilities are provided. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u65	Statements? Come in for a statement, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dismissing this text is a big mistake. Modern trends for the urban environment are precisely such that investment projects will be placed on separate collection sites, as separate waste collection is very important for the development of today's society. Last year, we adopted a Law amending local taxes and fees, with a new methodology for determining waste charge starting from 1 January 2020. Stimulation of the separate collection will result in a reduction of the garbage charge, as it will be calculated on the basis of the amount of waste that a family allocates. Thus, by accepting this article, we will help people to pay less garbage tax. In addition, I would like to say that the municipal council in Sofia has adopted a Regulation on waste management, maintenance and maintenance of cleanliness in the territory of Sofia Municipality, adopted on 25 June 2015. In Chapter IV, Section 1, art. 17 it is said that: The Mayor of Sofia Municipality determines the places for the deployment of the elements of the separate collection system of packaging waste, waste materials, of paper and cardboard, metals, plastic and glass, including the deployment of separate collection vessels on the territory of the municipality on a proposal from the mayors of districts. If we reject § 15, art. 18a, this will be contrary to the Ordinance of Sofia Municipality. 17, para. 2. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to support the adoption of this article. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the National Representative Julian Angelov. They voted 121 MPs: 45, against 12, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to reject § 15. They voted 114 MPs: 82, against 21, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u68	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 16: 1. the introductory sentence is amended as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 are created. 7 " - 2. the text shall be supplemented by para. 8.... If large-scale plants cannot be preserved and, where technically possible, moved, shall be moved by providing subsequent care for plants for a minimum of 2 vegetative seasons (pollution and fertilization) with the moved plants entering a percentage of high vegetation for the site. On the boundaries of the property to streets and landscaping areas to be allowed, placing high wood vegetation at 50 cm from the regulation line, the species are agreed with the municipal administration. In the construction of new parks and gardens as well as in the reconstruction of old ones, the construction of irrigation system is mandatory. In areas where the percentage of high wood vegetation is not mentioned, the quantity of high wood vegetation is at the discretion of the designer. In the absence of compliance with the percentage of high wood vegetation associated with fences, buildings, supporting walls and infrastructure, but not more than 10%, the possibility of compensatory landscaping or payment shall be made available, with the means going to improve or build new parks and gardens in the area. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 are created. 7 and 8: The minimum percentage of the landscaping properties with high vegetation shall be determined by the investment project (part parking and development) on the projection of the crowns of trees at the age of 12 years, according to the type specified in the dendrological project. With high tree vegetation, it is acceptable to use the entire minimum percentage of the landscaping properties. (8) The minimum percentage of landscaped area defined by the general plan shall be realised on the free yard area, except for the cases provided for in the ordinance under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u69	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! The fact remains that the Commission's decision is to reject the text that is in place in the construction of new parks and gardens or the reconstruction of old ones, not to build irrigation systems, as is happening all over the world. I'll give you an example of how public funds are wasted in this way. Long years between the two sails of Botevgradsko shose was made planting, replanting and construction of new gardens. In each season they dried up and next year they had to make a new afforestation. For several years there has been an irrigation system, planted trees have begun to grow and no replanting is necessary. I suggest you support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 28 against 31, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 16 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 86, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u72	Proposal from the MPs Boris Vangelov, Iskren Veselinov and Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is inserted in Chapter 3. 19a: Art. 19a. (1) When the need for use of land for security and defence sites is dropped, the purpose, rules and regulations of the prevailing area of construction area in which neighbouring properties fall shall apply to the device and their construction. (2) Deleting the need to use land for security and defence sites is available when ownership of the land is transferred to foreign countries, to the municipality or to other legal or natural persons or where the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u73	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the new § 17 created by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: for 89, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u74	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev: the following point is added: ....17. The text of art. 20 becomes para. 1 and create para. 2 and 3: When the act under para. 1 is caused significant damage to real cultural value, the perpetrator is punished with a fine from 5000 to 20 000 BGN for individuals, and when the infringement is committed by a legal person or a sole trader a penalty of 10 000 to 500,000 BGN is imposed. (3) When the act under para. 1 is minor, the penalty is a fine from 100 to 500 BGN for individuals, and when the infringement is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN is imposed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 17, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u75	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the desire of importers to discipline the environment and impose high fines. Everyone in the hall must imagine how an act of municipal administration will be made for 200 thousand levs and how this act will be realized. This means that we are currently adopting a text that will not be applicable. The desire is to discipline the environment, but really working is the old regime in which people could be sanctioned. You all know that fine over 50 leva. immediately goes to the court the illiterateness of the administrations to create stable acts that will be irresistible in court. Really, we are doing something with which we inflate muscles and say: "Yes, we are very brave, we will discipline the environment. " - I think this text is not working. Therefore, I propose that § 17 be repealed and that the old regime remain in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Mr. Gurnevsky, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! These days the National Revenue Agency has launched a tax check of the MP from GERB Dimitar Gamishev. This morning, in GERB's office, his resignation was deposited with the sole purpose, firstly, not to interfere with the verification and, secondly, not to speculate and abuse the name of the Political Party GERB, as this constantly does its opponents, the opposition. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The opposition, I said! You have only one communist, the rest are communist socialists. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear friends! Once again, the political party GERB gives to you and to the Bulgarian citizens a clear and precise message of how a true, democratic and responsible party should function. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Once again, and with the slightest doubt in the MPs, people deposit their resignations themselves, do not wait for the investigation to end, do not wait to complete checks, hide behind immunitys, but immediately leave the organization to not stain its name. You immediately took advantage of a declaration earlier and this is a very expected reason to ask you: When will you be at the level of the political party GERB? When will you reach the level that GERB showed today, in this Chamber, in this Parliament and in front of the Bulgarian people? [[(Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.) Partial applause by GERB.)]] How long will you keep quiet about your MPs whose brothers are drug brokers arrested publicly in Ruse? How long will you remain silent about the MP who is currently being tried, with immunity for the biggest crime in politics. How long is this double arsin? How long are you going to keep quiet about that presidential advisor from Hitler Gate? The one from GERB left immediately a worthy deputy minister, but the one standing in the Ministry of War and under your wing. I'd like to ask about the double archin. A foreign policy farce took place here last week, right at the European summit in Varna on a high level with Turkey. From this tribune, you said you were the most democratic and the most pluralist party. Indeed, that same day, in this Chamber, you showed incredible democracy and pluralism. In the first row, your leaders said: "We are for European integration. In the order of Tasco, in the back they said, "We are for inevitable and impossible Crimean occupation." [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: Eee!]] From the first row, your leaders stood up and said: "We are Europeans. " It's a democracy. But that's not what I wanted to ask you. I would like to ask your leader: when will she show the level of leader of a hundred-year-old party, as you claim to be? Few people in this hall have participated in the privatisation of the SDS, but it participates in this privatisation on behalf of the SDS. He took over a foreign trading company and then immediately became the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. As leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party or her activist was Deputy Minister during your government in the Triple Coalition. As Deputy Minister of Economy from 15 June 2006, until 19 April 2007 Ms. Ninova as Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Board of the Plovdiv Fair so protected the Bulgarian property that for these nine months the Fair went to another prominent member of the Socialist Party.... the Russian citizen and consul comrade Georgi Gergov. When will you answer these questions and when will you take your responsibility instead of hiding behind pseudo-declarations? [[Applause from GERB.]] I must tell you that Plovdiv has not forgotten the theft of the century that took place during Cornelia Nino's time. This theft of the century has been brought into the new anti-corruption body and soon the truth about your theft and crimes will come out. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. We continue to discuss the text on the Bill. Replies to Mrs. Yankova's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova for the dismissal of § 17. They voted 119 MPs: 35 against 44, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 22, against 48, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of the importers for § 17, which shall become § 18 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 85, none, abstention 32. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u80	According to § 18 there is a proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u81	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 18 to be rejected. They voted 116 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u82	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Maria Ilieva: In § 1b, after the words "the interested parties', the website of Sofia Municipality and the respective regional administration is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 19: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the (a) the introductory phrase is amended as follows: 5 ssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. b) in the created t. 8 b. The text of b shall be deleted and the text of b. In the case of the relevant editorial change, it becomes the content of the article. 8; (c) the text shall be supplemented by c. 10. It is a vegetation of species that can reach the height of older plants over 3 meters. 11. The vertical landscaping is a landscaping on the façade with or without an additional attachment structure. The landscaping area includes vertical landscaping, with its area on the facade or construction, reduced to 50% but not more than 10% of the total landscaping area. The vertical landscaping shall apply to urban development areas in the central urban area. 12. "Current landscaping" is landscaping above ground level on roof construction. The landscaping area shall include roof landscaping of not more than 10% of the total landscaping area. The roof landscaping shall apply to construction areas in the central urban area. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 in creations § 1c. ) (a.k.a. The text of para 2 is out of the question. 1 becomes the content of § 1c. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 19: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, b. "Everywhere before the exposition, a detailed development plan" is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1b. The expression.......................................................................................... Five, six, seven, eight, and nine. 5, 6 and 7s, e.g. 8 and 9 are deleted. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 § 1c is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: . (b) Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions of paragraph 1 (c) of the second paragraph of this Article. 1 and 2 are repealed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 and 2 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u83	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Maria Ilieva, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 110 MPs: for 6, against 7, abstention 97. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 33, against 30, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 27, against 40, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 19. They voted 113 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 23. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u84	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is created a new § 19a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In § 2, para. 9 of the transitional and final provisions, the words "supplied' shall be deleted and the words "supplied multi-functional zones' shall be replaced by a multi-functional multi-functional zone with "supplied parameters'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u85	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20, with a text proposed by the Commission and presented by the rapporteur. They voted 110 MPs: 84, none, abstention 26. The offer is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, before we end the meeting for 30 minutes, at the initiative of the Committee on Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports in the Holiday Holiday Holiday in the Eastern Couloir will be opened Easter Charity Exhibition of Children's Paintings from the 143rd School. Her cause is "Children help children" and the funds raised will be donated to children deprived of parental care. All MPs are invited to attend the opening and support the initiative. Today guests of the National Assembly are representatives of the Association. They work in support of children deprived of parental care. At the Club of the National Representative during the holiday will introduce the MPs to the cause they work for. Let us welcome our guests to our parliament. We interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u86	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the report on the second reading of the bill under consideration. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u87	According to § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 letter (s) in the drop-out part of t. 3, and does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal under point 3. 1 et c. 2: "1." of which: 2 in the content of the created text in column 6 against the urbanised territories: (a) t. 1 - 4 - drop out. (b) t. 5 and 6 become ct, respectively. 1 and 2. 2. in t. 3 (regarding column 6 of the group of residential construction zones (s) last sentence (predicting deletion of sentences third, fourth and fifth) Proposal from the National Representative Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and 5 but does not support the proposal on 1, 3 and 4: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 text of t. 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6, and both sentences after that. 6 are deleted. The text of t. 4 goes without numbering. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the text is created and a new sentence is created: The landscaped areas in the interblock areas are regulated for wide public use, not taking into account compliance with the regulations for the determination of the adjacent terrain (a regulated land) of existing buildings in the restructuring of residential complexes. 4. point 6 is deleted. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. The Annex to art. 3, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the name of column 6, after the word 2. A new text shall be created in column 6 of the row: "1." Subject to sanitary and environmental requirements, a change of purpose as defined by the detailed planning plan (PUP) for certain regulated land estates (PUPs) from residential and non-residential dwellings to non-residents shall be permitted, without requiring modification of PUPs. In these cases, the purpose of future buildings shall be specified by the design visa, which shall be communicated to the persons concerned under art. 131 of ZUT. 2. A change in the character of construction from high to medium and/or low and from medium to low in freely located buildings in the regulated land. In these cases, the nature of the construction of future buildings is specified by the design visa. 3. The maximum eligible building parameters for kindergartens, schools, higher education, hospital care facilities, social services establishments are as follows: - for kindergartens up to 30% of the building density (P), minimum landscape area 50 per cent; - for schools - building density (P) up to 40%, intensity coefficient (Kint.) up to 1,2; minimum landscape area 20 per cent; - for higher schools "P" up to 40%, Kint. up to 1,2, minimum landscape area 30 per cent; - for hospital care facilities up to 60%, Kint. up to 3,0 and a minimum landscape area of 30 per cent; - for a social service establishment - P up to 30%, Kint. up to 1,2, minimum landscaped area 30 per cent. 4. Changing the purpose of buildings for kindergartens, schools, higher education institutions, hospital facilities and social services establishments is permissible under the conditions of the Law on construction of the territory and subject to the spatial parameters of the area in which the property falls. 5. In the spatial areas in which maximum values for cota cornice of the buildings in this Annex are not specified, the following maximum cotty cornice shall be determined: 5.1. for the territory of the central urban area of 50 m excluding the properties falling within the area of the new business centre; 5.2. for the territory bounded by the Sofia ring road, southern construction border of the city Sofia, bul. "Tsar Boris III" 15 m.; 5.3. for regulated land-based properties in a mixed multifunctional area with a person on streets of the second and third grade of the primary street network and which fall within the 400-meter zone from the middle of the platform of existing subway stations outside the central city and outside the regions of Triaditsa. 5.4. for the rest of the territory Those restrictions do not apply to the construction area for very high construction. 3. In column 6 of row (a) After sentence two, a new sentence third is created: "For construction zones Jm1, Jm2, Jm3 and Zhv the parameters of construction within the defined limits of the Annex shall be specified by a scheme for "Territories with finite values of construction indicators" which shall be adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council on a report by the mayor of the municipality by a majority of three-quarters of the total number of advisors. (b) Previous sentences third, fourth and fifth are deleted. 4. In column 6 of t. 1 words "Divide a change of function into a public one. Mandatory underground level RG.s are deleted. 5. In column 6 of t. 2: (a) a new sentence is created third: "In the event of a change of approved R&D for the restructuring of residential complexes, the distances between the envisaged and existing buildings are also determined by the rules of complex building. b) the previous sentence third becomes the fourth sentence; (c) the previous sentence fourth becomes the fifth sentence and in it the words (d) The fifth sentence of the previous sentence becomes the sixth sentence and is amended as follows: The areas between the buildings under complex construction of landscaped areas are regulated for wide public use without complying with the regulations for determining the adjacent terrain (regulated land) of existing buildings in the restructuring of residential complexes. 6. In column 3 of item 3. 3 the number....2,3... is replaced by the number...2,5.. 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 2, after the number (b) in column 3, after the number (c) in column 4, after the number (d) in column 5, after the figure (e) in column 6, the words 8. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: (a) in the first sentence, the words for which the minimum area of the UME is 500 sq. m and the minimum person 16 m (b) in the second sentence, the words for which the minimum area of the UME is 600 sq. m and the person responsible for the assessment shall be deleted from the list referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article. (c) in the third sentence, the words 9. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7, column 6 is replaced by the second is replaced by the following: 10. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8th column 6 the 11. In the text of the row (a) sentences third and fourth are deleted; (b) the previous sentence fifth becomes the third sentence and in it the word "built-up" is replaced by "built-up" and the words "high-end" are replaced by the words "high-rises." 12. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 column 6 after the word "RUP', a point shall be placed and the words "prepared on the basis of volume planning studies approved by the SOS' shall be deleted. 13. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10, column 6 the text 14. In the text of the row, the group of mixed multifunctional spatial zones and in column 6 sentences second and third are deleted. 15. A new order shall be created. 11a: A multifunctional multifunctional zone for very high construction is incorporated in column 6 and the text is inserted in column 8. 16. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 14 column 6 the words s "20%' shall be replaced by "60%' and the words "for each IM' shall be replaced by "per building' in "IM'. 17. In the text of the line, the group of establishment areas for public service activities (in column 6 sentences 2 and 3) are deleted. 18. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 15 column 6 sentence 2 is deleted; 19. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The third sentence of column 16 is amended as follows: The total built-up area of the regulated land is allowed up to 40% of the total built-up area of the regulated land use. 20. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 20, column 6 sentence two, and the words "for health protection of the urban environment' are deleted. 21. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 21, column 6 sentence 2 is deleted; 22. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 22, column 6 the words "Societys for researchers, lecturers and business workers' and the words "Scivic requirements for health protection of the urban environment' are deleted. 23. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 35, column 6 sentence 3 is deleted; 24. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 36, column 6 sentence 3 is deleted; 25. In the text of the row "Sports &amp; Attractions', the second sentence of column 6 is deleted. 26. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 42, column 6 sentence third the word 27. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 44, column 6, the text is amended as follows: 28. Previously on "T." 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 60 respectively. 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59. 29. Previously on "T." 61 ct. 60 and in column 6 the words "VF' and Ordinance No 3 of 2000 of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works' are replaced by the "Water Act'. 30. Previously on "T." 62 is a t. 61 and in column 6 the words "VH, ZH and Ordinance No 14 of the Ministry of Health and Health' are replaced by "VAW'. 31. Previously on "T." 63, 64 and 65 become t. 62, 63 and 64. 32. Previously on "T." 66 ct. 65 and in column 6 the words "order No 12 of 2001" of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the design in landslide areas are replaced by the norms for the design of buildings and facilities in earthquake areas. 33. Previously on "T." 67 ct. 66 and in column 6 the words "non-profit institutions' (1987) are replaced by the words "non-financial corporations'.).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 34. Previously on "T." 68 ct. 67. 35. Points 1 "9" after the previous item. 68 are canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any statements on the reported texts? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The following proposals have been made in § 20 by the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. The removal of the texts of the importer providing for a change in the purpose of certain regulated land estates from.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The visa shall be a copy of the detailed design plan in force and shall not become a means of amending the plan by changing its purpose or circumventing the law in respect of the set order for amending the detailed planning plans. The visa is an act of implementing the construction plan. In this case, it is given the quality of an act to amend the plan for regulation and construction, i.e. in Sofia Municipality it will not be necessary to amend the detailed planning plan under the rules of the Law of the European Union, but will issue a visa according to a point in the Annexes of this Law. I stress from the annexes which should normally contain technical rules and norms. The provision does not contain material criteria for making a change of purpose. Completely unspecified are the criteria whereby a change of purpose will be allowed. The adoption of this text makes it possible to provide for a plot for harmless production of artificial stones, concrete products and construction solutions in a residential territory, i.e. among plots for residential construction. And only with the visa of a chief architect and one person by the chief architect. A direct consequence of the amendment applied is a change in the material competence of the authorities in the case of the modification of the purpose of the property. Once the change in the purpose of the property will be carried out with a design visa instead of by amending the PUP, competent to approve the amendment will be the chief architect instead of the mayor. The proposal leads to a concentration of powers to amend plans in the hands of the chief architect in respect of all types of urbanised territories. In conclusion, I believe that the proposed bill, which has already been adopted, creates disharmony in the legislation between ZUT and the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, and for the same administrative procedure different bodies are envisaged in the two laws. The practice of making sole decisions is encouraged in certain cases without clear criteria and without a strict control mechanism. This leads to confusion, incorrect or arbitrary application of the law, which does not comply with the objectives of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality to create stricter norms and higher guarantees for the protection of public interest. We believe that this proposal from the BSP for Bulgaria very strongly should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any line requests. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. I am closing the debate on the proposed text for § 20. We are going to vote on proposals not supported by the Commission. First of all is the proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in the unsupported part of the Commission, according to the report submitted by Mr. Veselinov to drop the item. 3, and the Commission does not support the proposals in the rest of it... [[Heckling]] Point 2, yes. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 20, against 42, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev in the part which is not supported by the Commission, according to points 1, 3 and 4. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: 23, against 44, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text of § 20, which becomes § 21, on the report of the Commission, which Mr. Veselinov introduced us to. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 88, against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u91	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u92	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the name of the section and the text of § 21 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 95, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u93	According to § 22 the proposal from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... (1) The time limits of the cancelled art. 17 for the launch of estrangement procedures for the construction of public municipal or public state property, on the territory of Sofia Municipality with regard to detailed development plans, entered into force until the entry into force of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, run since the entry into force of the law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) After the expiry of the time limits under para. 1 as well as the detailed planning plans which entered into force after the entry into force of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, the rules of art shall apply. 208 of the Law on the Construction of the Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the wording of § 22 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 107 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 12. The proposal for a text of § 22, which becomes § 23, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u95	According to § 23 the proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev: "Paragraph 23 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version of § 23, which becomes § 24: .................................................................................. (1) The procedures initiated until the entry into force of this law for the preparation and approval of spatial plans and their amendments shall be completed in the current order and subject to the provisions which have acted in the issuing of an authorisation for the design of a detailed spatial plan. (2) Started by para. 1 are the proceedings for which authorisation has been granted until the entry into force of this law to design a detailed development plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 18, against 57, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a text of § 23 by importer, which shall become § 24 by the Commission report, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u97	According to § 24 the proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The detailed planning plans for the territory of Sofia Municipality shall remain effective until the entry into force of this law. (2) In cases where the approval of a working plan to the plans under para. 1 is mandatory, the working plan is made in compliance with the norms that have been in effect until the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any statements on the proposed wording of § 24? I don't see any requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting § 24 by importer, which becomes § 25, in the version proposed in the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 98, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u99	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev, § 25 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 25, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u100	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev to be deleted, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 22, against 45, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importers for § 25, which shall become § 26, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u101	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Julian Angelov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The detailed planning plans, which provide for related construction in two or more regulated land properties and which are applied to the construction in one of the properties, shall remain valid for their uninformed part, even though they exceed the construction indicators set out in the Annex to art. 3, para. 2 when covering the built-up turbot walls is required. In applying the detailed design plan in force, the height of buildings approved by the plan shall not be exceeded.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on § 26, which becomes § 27, in the version of the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 91, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u103	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the Members of the National Assembly, Cornelia Ninova and Group The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev § 27 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 (1) The detailed planning plans, with which land properties falling within spatial areas outside the specified areas, which have entered into force or approved until the entry into force of this law. 10, para. 2 and 3 are intended for landscaped areas for wide public use, may be amended if not applied to align them with the projections of the common planning in force. (2) The detailed design plans under para. 1, provided for gardens, parks and lesokarks, are amended by a decision of the Sofia Municipal Council to bring them in line with the forecasts of the existing common construction plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u104	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The texts in § 27 by importer increase the powers of the Sofia Municipal Council and lower the criteria for replacing the use of land for green areas. As you know, gentlemen of the importers, quite often you and I have encountered each other over the past two years on protests where they are dissatisfied with the fact that gardens and green areas in front of their blocks have changed their purpose and are assigned to build. All those who participate in these protests, both you MPs from GERB and your municipal councilors from Sofia Municipality, make a promise to these people that we will make and introduce more restrictive measures so that it becomes more difficult to change the status of the green areas. It's kind of like Elin Pelin's story about the guy everyone wants to help. At the same time, however, the proposal you are making at the moment is an exact counterproposal of what you promise citizens who protest against the construction of green areas in Sofia Municipality. That is why we call on you to truly support our proposal § 27 to drop out, not to make an exception for Sofia Municipality, not to give so much power to the Sofia Municipal Council because, as you know, it is not an authority of impeccable reputation. [[GERB lines.]] We should not create additional preferences for the Sofia Municipal Council, run away from the basic rules and regulations that are on this topic and are clearly regulated in art. 62a of the Law on territorial planning and not to give additional nutritional environment for corruption practices in the Sofia Municipal Council. As I told you, he's not an impeccable organ, especially in the last 10 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u106	How was it before? Until 2005, what was it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? There's an opportunity for lines! Here you go. No. Are there any other statements? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote at the same time on three identical proposals of the MP Nikolay Alexandrov, a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and group, and a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev to drop out § 27. In one proposal is... is deleted, which is essentially the same. I am voting simultaneously on the three proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, which I have listed, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: for 28, against 62, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 27, which becomes § 28 by text of the importer, in the version of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 85, against 10, abstention 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u108	According to § 28 there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev, § 28 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the wording of the importers for § 28, which becomes § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u109	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev to be deleted, not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 25, against 50, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 28, which becomes § 29 with a text of the importers supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u110	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u111	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposed text of the importers for § 29, which becomes § 30, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 76, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u112	According to § 30 there is a proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova and Radoslav Stoychev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on territorial division of Sofia Municipality and major cities (prom., SG No. 66 from 1995; and Dop., No. 80 of 1995 and No. 90 of 1999) in art. 2, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. Points 17, 18 and 19 are amended as follows: Seventeen. Vitosha district with borders: ul. Todor Kableshkov, bul. Bulgaria, the ring road, ul. Vitosha Bells (w. 5th), 5th Street. Byala Reka (w. 1st), in a south-west direction from 1st Street. Byala Reka (w. 1st) near the intersection of 1st Street. Bistrisko Road and Street Hot waterfall (w. 1st) (from a point at 4722216.03, 325069.35 through points at coordinates: 4722181.18, 325030.69; 4772175.99, 325035.05; 47722163.82, 325019.61; 4722163.20, 325020.08; 47222158.54, 325001.36; 47722157.30, 325002.38; 4722151.54, 324979.72; 47722148.25, 324973.40; 4722135.15, 324971.98; 4722128.42, 324967.81; 4722105.88, 324948.40; 472268.76, 324914.62; 4722071.53, 324910.23; 4722061.65, 324891.98; 472445.08.08; 424826.08.82.82.82, 3272.82.82.82.82.82.82.82.82. Hot waterfall (w. 1st), in a southern direction to Kalna along the border between cadastral regions 68134.2047 (from a point at 4721361.56, 324163.51 through points at coordinates:4721360.20, 324161.14; 47721356.22, 324156.62; 4721342.62, 324140.63; 4721302.28, 324120.95; 4721284.59, 324116.50; 4721240.29, 324089.29; 4721322.43, 324083.66; 4721173.97, 324078.17; 4721159.98, 324118.12; 4721152.11, 324118.28, 4721122.76, 4724103.76; 4721117.97.74; 4721108.74; 4721108.29, 3224116.93; 47210.93.93.93.93.97.70. Bouquet, ul. Bouquet, boulevard. Nikola Petkov, Blvd. Tsar Boris III and includes the villages of Vladaya and Merchaevo and the districts of Boyana, Knyazhevo, Dragalevtsi and Simeonovo; 18. Ovcha kupel district with borders: the ring road, the railway line for Pernik, ul. Montevideo Street. Roundabout, Street. 768, 768. Metohiya to the east, Street. Galabova to the south, Street. 306, ul. Zhitnitsa, Vladayska river, Blvd. Sheep's kowel, bul. Tsar Boris III, bul. Nikola Petkov, ul. Bouquet, along the border between the Gorna Banya and Knyazhevo neighborhoods, to and along the land border of Vladaya village, the border with Sofia region, to and along the land border of the village of Malo Buchino and the district of Gradoman and Ivanane, along the land border between the district of Sudol and Ivanane, the western border of the village of Manilov dol "Malobuchinski travesty," ul. "The Landscape," the land border between the Sq. Filipovtsi and Ivanane, the southwest boundary of land properties with identifiers 61134.438.4380.29 and 61134.4376.34 (from a point at 4732770.40, 312001.35 through points with coordinates: 4732649.38, 312091.19; 4732638.09, 312082.55 to a point at 4732387.06, 312270.00), the boundary between the districts of Sudol and Filipovtsi, the northern bank of Sudol Dam, and includes the districts of Gorna Banya and Sudol and Malo Buchino; 19. Lyulin district with borders: the road around the road, the railway line for the town of Lyulin Bankya, the sequel to Blvd. Pancho Vladigerov, Blvd. Slivnitsa, the Sukhdol River, the northern bank of the Sukhdol Dam, the border between Filipovtsi and Sukhdol districts, the south-west border of land properties with identifiers 61134.436.34 and 61134.438.29 (from a point at 4732387.06, 312270.00 through points with coordinates: 4732638.09, 312082.55; 4732649.38, 312091.19 to a point with coordinates: 4732770.40, 312001.35;), the border between Filipovtsi quarter and Ivanyane village, the border with the Sofia region and the southern land border of the village of Voluyak and includes the districts Filipovtsi and Republic; 2. points 23 and 24 are amended as follows: "23." Pancharevo district with borders: the ring road (except the southern part of Gorblyane district), Iskar river, the road to Plovdiv, the ring road with the western districts of Kazichene village, Blvd. Botevgradsko shose, the southern land border of Dolni Bogrov village, the border with Sofia region, the land border between the village of Bistritsa and Simeonovo in a northern direction from Kalna along the border between the cadastral regions of 68134.050 and 68134.2047 to 68134. ? Hotnish waterfall (w. 1) (from a point at 4721087.73 324139.30 through points at 4721089.21, 324135.90; 4721096.93, 324127.00; 4721108.29, 324116.93; 4721117.97, 324106.74; 4721122.41, 324103.76; 4721152.11, 324118.28; 4721159.98, 324118.12; 4721173.97, 324078.17; 472232.43, 324083.66; 4721240.29, 324089.29; 4721284.59, 324116.50; 4721302.28, 324120.95; 4721342.62, 324140.63; 4721356, 324156.62; 4721360.20, 324161.14 to a point at 47211.56, 324163), ? Hotnish waterfall (w. 1st), in a north-east direction from the intersection of 1st Street. Bistrisko Road and Street Hot waterfall (w. 1st) to 1st Street. Byala Reka (w. 4721944.41, 324769.78 through points with coordinates: 4721953.86, 324784.29; 472182.22, 324808.81; 47722003.92, 324826.22; 47721992.16, 324839.15; 472226.55, 324865.32; 472245.60, 324882.08; 472268.65, 324891.98; 4722071.53, 324910.23; 4722068.76, 324914.62; 4722105.88, 324948.40; 4722128.42, 324967.81; 4722135.15, 324971.98; 47722148.25, 324973.40; 4722151.54, 32497979.72; 477257.30, 3252185.38; 47258, 32521.38), 472.260, 4272.20.26.260, 3272.260, 3272.260, 3272.260, 3272.260, 3272.260, 32721, 3272.20.20, 3272.260, 3272.260, 3272.20.20.20.20.20, 3272.20, 3272.20.20.20.20.20.20, 32470,2.20, 3272.20, 3272.20, 3272.42.22.20.20.22.20.22.20, 3247.22.22.20, 32472, 32472, 32472, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3248, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3248, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 3247, 32478,2 Byala Reka (w. 1st), 1st Street. ..White bells (w. 5th) and includes the villages of Germany, Railway, Lozen, Kazichene, Krivina, Dolni Pasarel, Plan, Bones, Pancharevo and Bistritsa; 24. Region of Bankya " with borders": the border between Filipovtsi district and Ivanyane village, ul. The Landlord, ul. "Malobucinian road" (from a point at 4731826.99, 311175.54 through points with coordinates: 4731812.76, 311181.92; 4731775.54, 311198.71; 4731776.14, 311199.85; 4731740.54, 311217.39; 4731741.05, 311218.45 to a point at coordinates: 4731670.34, 311251.94), the land border between the district of Sudol and Ivanje, the land border between the villages of Malo Buchino and Ivanane and the district of Gradoman, the border with Sofia district and includes the city of Sofia. Bankya, the villages of Klisura and Ivanjane and the districts of Gradoman, Mihailovo and Verdikal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u113	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission, to the wording of § 30, which shall become § 31. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u114	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: They are created § 31 and 32: ........................ 31...................................................... Within one month of the entry into force of this law, schematics shall be drawn up with the precise outlines of the areas for cat cornice under point. 6.1, p. 6.2, p. 6.3 et seq. 6.4 of § 20, t. 6 of the current ZUZSO VID, marked by the primary street network of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd class by name. § 32. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Sofia Municipal Council shall adopt a decision for the official development of a draft amendment to the General Planning Plan, such as the graphical part of the General Planning Plan of the Sofia Municipality approved by Decision No 147 of the Council of Ministers of 2006 to correspond to the changes to the text part. (2) Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers adopted the draft amendment of the General Planning Plan of Sofia Municipality under para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed proposal by a group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) creates two paragraphs indicating the deadlines for drawing up schemes in precise outlines of the cata cornice zones for the official development of projects to amend the General Development Plan as a graphical part of the General Development Plan to be responsible for the changes to the text part of this Law. The need for deadlines is determined by the fact that the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality provides for substantial, lasting and irreversible changes in the guidelines of the development and construction of Sofia. Thus, the adopted texts of the Law completely or partially replace the predictions of the existing Urban Plan of Sofia Municipality and essentially represent its amendment, namely. The nature of the construction and other construction indicators in significant territory, a new type of design visa is being created, a different regime for corner plots is adopted, a different regime for changing the purpose of green systems, a different regime for admission of temporary constructions, two new regulations are envisaged, a Regulation on the urban environment with rules and the appearance of urban spaces, buildings and architectural facilities, and a Regulation for carrying out research, analysis and simulation of transport services. It should be borne in mind and note that the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality was established as a rule and norms of the General Development Plan of Sofia Municipality, not as a ZUT of Sofia Municipality. The texts adopted go beyond categorically special construction rules aimed at supplementing and specifying the General Development Plan, separate texts change even the existing regulations of the LU. The draft thus voted acquires the quality of a regulatory act amending the operation of the General Development Plan of Sofia Municipality, voted without the mandatory environmental impact assessment, without changing the associated schemes for different types of infrastructures, without the Sofia Municipal Council considering and taking a decision on the project. Much of the changes adopted in the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality do not correspond with the current strategic regulatory framework defining the planning of Sofia Municipality adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council, namely the Environment Management Programme, the General Development Plan of Sofia Municipality from 2009, the Municipal Development Plan of Sofia Municipality 2014-2020, the Integrated Urban Recovery and Development Plan 2014-2020, the Transport Infrastructure Construction and Reconstruction Programme, the Strategy for the Development of the Engineering Infrastructure of Sofia Municipality, the Long-term vision for the development of Sofia Municipality, the Environment Management Program. All of these documents were drawn up on the basis of Sofia's General Development Plan with a horizon of action 2030 and predetermined the policy in spatial and spatial development, and the use of the territorial and spatial resources of Sofia Municipality. Further public consultations and a preliminary impact assessment on the basis of complex expert analysis and data were needed. New norms should not have been adopted before existing ones were realised to determine which of them were useless. Adopting the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria, we need to make it clear that the optimal synchronization between the graphic and text of the General Planning Plan of Sofia is sought in optimal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u117	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u118	My fellow Members, first of all, I take the floor to say that there was a lot of truth in what my colleague said before me, but it applies to the Bill in its form before the first reading. This was also the reason why a large part of our parliamentary group should refrain from supporting it. Between first and second reading, the bill has undergone a major amendment, for which I would like to thank both the importers, who have been very active in the work and the representatives of Sofia Municipality, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As you can see, this law has not been viewed partyly, there is no emphasis on the preferences of texts proposed by one or another political power, one or another MP. I must add that two public discussions have been made in practice and a large part of the opinions deposited by non-governmental organisations have been provided for in this law, so by voting on these last texts, we actually think that we are putting an end to a rather rational, thought-out amendment to the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, which actually solves Sofia's main problems with the high construction and with the conservation of the green system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 25, against 45, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. With this, honourable Members, we conclude the second vote of the Law and consider it adopted. Moving on to the next point for today: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REGULAR PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, HEARING OF CANDIDATES FOR THE SELECTION OF MEMBERS AND THE REFUNDER OF THE NATIONAL BUILDINGS FOR CONTROL OF SPECIAL RECOGNITION. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to present the report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, submission and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates for the election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means At a regular meeting held on March 22nd. Mr. Chairman, I note that in the Report presented, there is a technical, spelling error.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u121	It says: 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u122	And it should be: On 22 March 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined and discussed the Draft Decision for adoption of procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov presented the draft rules, noting that they are adopted on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. 7 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion, no proposals were made on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure for the election of a member and vice-chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 5 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for the election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 34c, para. 7 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for the election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. I. Offering candidates for a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and Public Disclosure of Documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds shall be made by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the National Assembly's Office to the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications within 10 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the applicant's high professional and moral qualities. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: - the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template "Annex 1 to the decision'; - detailed professional CV; - a copy of an identity card and a diploma for completed higher education certified by the applicant; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 34c, para. 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act; - a statement that the person has not been convicted of a deliberate criminal offence of general nature. - a medical certificate that the person does not suffer from a mental illness. 3. The proposals and the documents referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. 2 shall be published within one working day of their receipt on the website of the National Assembly. 4. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 5. Non-profit legal entities registered for public utility activities, higher schools and scientific organisations may submit opinions to the Commission on the applicant, including issues to be asked. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Square, Alexander I: No 1, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, or by e-mail: kkss@parliament.bg no later than seven days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be published within one working day after receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. II. The applicant's eligibility check. 1. The Commission shall examine at a meeting whether all relevant documents under Section I, i.e. 2 and whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for capacity, citizenship and internship under the Special Intelligence Means Act. The decision on admissions shall be published within one working day on the website of the National Assembly subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Where the Commission finds that the applicant does not meet the requirements for performance and internship under the Special Intelligence Means Act, it shall inform the proposer. New proposals may be made within 7 days of notification. 3. Within 3 days of publication of the Commission's decision on admission candidates, each candidate shall personally transmit to the Information Security Officer in the Information Security Department. 3.1. a certified copy of a valid permit for access to classified information with a level of 3.2. Security research documents according to art. 148, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information: - written consent of the applicant to conduct research under art. 43, para. Annex 3 or 4 to the Decision is amended as follows: - notary certified declaration under art. 74, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, signed and certified to a notary "Annex 5 to the Decision'; - consent in relation to art. 62, para. 9 of the Credit Institutions Act "Annex 6 to the Decision; - self-initiated level questionnaire for access to classified information - picture 4 x 3.5 cm "1 piece." 4. Candidates as a member and vice-chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means who do not have a valid permit for access to classified information at the level of The documents referred to in Section II, p. 3.2. to the candidates are sent to the State Agency "National Security" which conducts a special study within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of classified information within one month. 5. The results of the study shall be published within one day of their entry on the website of the National Assembly. III. Hearing of candidates admitted as a member and vice-chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. 1. The Commission shall, by decision, draw up a list of candidates for a member and vice-president of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means, which shall comply with the requirements of the Special Intelligence Means Act. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 2. The hearing shall be held within 7 days of the publication of the list of candidates at an open Commission meeting, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 3. The committee shall listen to candidates for their order on the list. 4. The proposer shall present the candidate at an exhibition within 2 minutes. 5. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and to demonstrate his motivation for taking up the position in an exhibition within 10 minutes for each candidate. 6. Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, may ask questions to the applicant within 2 minutes, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, higher schools and scientific organisations. 7. Each candidate shall be granted the right to answer within 2 minutes of a question. 8. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Commission shall, within 7 days of the hearing, submit to the National Assembly a summary report to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions on the selection of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. IV. Election of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act shall present the report on the hearing. 3. Applicants shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals on their order in the list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The debates on the submitted applications shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you what was presented by the rapporteur that there are Annexes 1 to 7 to the Decision. They are an integral part of the Decision. The last application is a questionnaire. I'm saying this thing for reference. I put to the vote the decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates for the election of a member and vice-chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. They voted 104 MPs: 94, against 5, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. With this, honourable Members of Parliament, we have completed the work programme adopted for today. The next regular plenary session is on 29 March 2018 at 9.00 p.m., according to the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
