ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Communication: The National Assembly adopted Decision No 165 of 8 February 2018 on Prepiska No KZK 127/2017 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted an opinion on compliance with the competition rules of Chapter 10 of the Energy Act. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Energy and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! It became clear from a statement by representatives of the BSP Parliamentary Group that the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Valeri Zablyanov is the author of the scandalous phrase in an official position of the Socialist Party, according to which the so-called People's Court is necessary and inevitable justice. We welcome the decision of the management of the BSP to withdraw this insulting to the entire Bulgarian people thesis from its official document. At the same time, we recall that Mr. Jablyanov did not comment in a cynical way on events that caused severe wounds on a large part of the Bulgarian society. We also recall that just two weeks ago Valeri Zablyanov tried to thwart the tribute with a one-minute silence to the victims of the totalitarian regime. For the GERB Parliamentary Group, Mr. Zablyanov's behaviour is unacceptable and incompatible with his position as Vice-President of the National Assembly. GERB Parliamentary Group urges Mr. Zablyanov to bear political responsibility for these actions by resigning from the post he holds. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If the requested resignation is not submitted within the working day, the MPs from GERB will start collecting signatures for official request of the resignation of Valeri Jablyanov as Vice-President of the Parliament tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, we are continuing with the first point today, and it is in connection with: NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MATERIAL AND THE MATERIAL ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 24 JANUARY 2018, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAY NO 25 OF 1 FEVRUARY 2018 OF THE PRESENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BY CHILD. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food to familiarize the audience with the Commission's report. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on Decree No 25 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 2 February 2018 on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2018 and the reasons to the Decree. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 7 February 2018, discussing Decree No 25 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister, Stoil Dudulov, Head of Department of the Directorate of Land Relations and Comasation and Zornitsa Zhekova, Chief Expert in the same Directorate. Representatives of a wide range of NGOs were also present. The President of the Commission reported the President's statement and the reasons for it, stating that on the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution, the President returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly § 28, item 28. 5, t. 7 (a) and 7 (b) 11 § 30 and § 31 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material adopted on 24 January 2018. The contested texts are related to the amended rules for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the Agricultural Land Conservation Act. In his motives, the President states that according to art. 21, para. 1 of the Constitution, the land is basically national wealth, which benefits from the special protection of the state and society. Protecting this good from the highest order of society, in art. 21, para. 2 The Constitution proclaims the principle of the use of arable land only for agricultural purposes, as a change in its purpose is permitted exceptionally in case of proven need and under conditions and in order laid down by law. According to the President, the changes made to the HAZZ are not relevant to the specific protection of the land provided for in the Constitution as a basic national wealth and points out the following arguments. With the waiver of the requirement to present a draft detailed planning plan (PUP) at the beginning of the procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land, pursuant to § 28, item 28. 5 (in relation to Art. 5) 21, para. 1 and 5 of the HAZZ) there is an ambiguity about the specific parameters of investment intention and there is no proven need, which is a constitutional prerequisite for change of purpose. It is noted that with § 28, t. Article 7 (a) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 24, para. 1 of the HAZZ) the obligation of the person concerned to submit an PSU after the decision on the validation of a final site and/or route has entered into force, which allows for the unlimited validity of the decision to change the purpose. According to § 28, t. 11 (in respect of Art. 11) 34, para. 1 and 2 of the HAZZ) the starting point from which the one-year period for the request for a change of purpose of the land begins to run as from the entry into force of the GMP, not as so far as the decision on the establishment of a final site has entered into force. Accordingly, given the change in art. 24, para. 1 which waives the obligation to initiate the preparation of PSUs by the person concerned, creates an unlimited validity of the decision on validation of sites. This adverse effect, according to the President, will also occur in respect of the welded proceedings to which the new rules for the time limits under Article 31 will apply under § 31. 34. Paragraph 30 enables persons who have missed the six-year extension in 2012 to request confirmation of the decision to change the use of agricultural land for non-farming purposes. However, there is no time limit within which this confirmation can be requested, as para. Paragraph 7 of Paragraph 30 provides for the removal of the legal action only of the confirmed decisions on change of purpose. In this way, loss of power is validated solutions for change of purpose without a time limit within which this can be requested. Besides, with al. 6 a reimbursement of the fee paid is envisaged if the body does not confirm and cancels the decision to change the purpose of the land. In this regard, it is noted in the reasoning that, given the way the proposals for these changes are tabled, there is no clarity as to how the obligation to reimburse public finances will affect them. According to the President, so adopted changes stimulate farmers to change their purpose and, over a long period of time, wait for the emergence of investment interest. This violates the public interest as land for changed purposes cannot be used for agricultural purposes and at the same time construction has not started. Thus, according to him, the compliance of the adopted arrangement with art. 21 of the Constitution. The reasons stress that changes in legislation concerning the fundamentals of the Constitution must go through all stages of the legislative process. It is recalled that according to art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and according to the reasons of Decision No 5 of 2015 of the Constitutional Court (not yet published in the Official Journal). DV, No. 78 from 2015), proposals made between the first and second votes on the bills should not contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. In conclusion, it is noted that the inclusion of changes in the HAZZ, leading to an unjustified extension of the possibilities for changing the purpose of agricultural land to Transitional and Final Provisions of another law, gives the impression that it is intended to avoid widespread public discussion and the detailed motivation of the proposed changes. In the discussion followed by the parliamentary group of "United patriots" recalled that they were against dropping the requirement to present the PSU. They have indicated that the President, in his motives, opposes the constitutional norm defending agricultural land to the one proclaiming the privacy of private property. They have defined as a false argument for barren agricultural land as the arable land increases annually and the land that is not processed as a rule is low productive and unfit for agricultural use. They raised the question of the responsibility of the state, which, in a number of municipalities, did not do what was necessary to adopt common spatial plans to reflect the land of changed purpose. They noted that, in addition to a financial analysis, how the reimbursement of the fees paid will affect, there is no estimate of what the losses of the taxes not paid, which the owners would pay in the municipal budgets for the land for a changed purpose. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria....................... to Bulgaria.......................................................................................................................... to They agreed with the President's arguments regarding the lack of time limit for the preparation of PSUs and a deadline for interested parties to request confirmation of the decision to change the purpose. They noted the lack of analysis of the size of the areas concerned for which import fees should be reimbursed, the lack of financial analysis of the effect of this obligation on the Ministry's budget and expressed concern that such a return could be considered as unlawful State aid. The DPS parliamentary group recalled that they voted against changes in the plenary and said they would support the president's veto. They have determined as justified the arguments that a change in the use of agricultural land should be allowed only exceptionally and if proven necessary. They have declared against the legalization of the loss of legal effect solutions for changing the purpose. They have stated that it is unacceptable between first and second readings to make changes with transitional and final provisions of another law which contradict the initial scope of the bill. Kristina Taskova from the Parliamentary Group of Voljas also said she would support the president's veto, as she considered it unacceptable the procedure under which they were made. NGO put forward arguments both in support and against the re-acceptance of the Law. With regard to a clear concern that a criminal procedure may be initiated against the country if new opinions relating to the protection of protected areas are not provided in the event of a change of purpose, the President of the Commission recalled that in the procedure confirming the decision on change of purpose there is an explicit requirement for the provision of opinions or decisions issued pursuant to Chapter 6a of the Environmental Protection Act and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods: with 12 votes...... 9 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Members of the National Assembly shall have time under the Rules of Procedure as at first reading. Under art. 58 of our Rules, respectively: GERB. 30 min., BSP... 26... United Patriarchs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There is also an opportunity for an extension of time. You know. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that under the motto to reduce the administrative burden of the Council of Ministers offered to change a very large number of laws such is the Law on seed and seed material, where 12 other laws have been amended along this law, including the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Lands, a very complex, difficult law to implement with procedures, which concerns not only the Agricultural Ministry, but also a number of laws relating to the development of the regions. The president's veto is specifically based on specific texts under the Agricultural Land Conservation Act. I want to divide the veto into two parts related to what is offered to us by the Council of Ministers and it is reflected respectively in the Law, and what is offered to us by representatives and MPs, which is also adopted in the Law. This law was adopted within three parliamentary sessions. First a proposal from the Commission, second option Danail Kirilov, third... [[GERB lines.]] The option is yours, the second option is yours, I've already named it because there was... And the third option is a new Commission meeting and an additional report. The amendment of the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers in the Draft Law, in this case § 29, is a significant facilitation of the possibility to change the purpose that the President is attacking, because the change of purpose of agricultural land must be made exceptionally and in conditions under which he has investment intention. This investment intention should accordingly have its idea, its realization and only then proceed to this step. The procedure itself consists of two concrete steps. First, this is respectively the site to be authorised by the Commission. A preliminary draft of a detailed design plan was also required for this site so far. In this case, the Law of the Council of Ministers proposes that this detail be dropped, that is, we do not need what the investment intention will be for. The only new proposal being made is to be a sketch. The sketch we assume is something that enables us to determine what category of land we are talking about, where the property is located and creates prerequisites to make a sufficiently precise assessment of whether this first stage will be urgent enough as regards the location of the land. The lack of a detailed design project is worrying from the point of view of the possibility that indeed the one who wants to change the purpose of the earth, for what purpose it does it. From this point of view, the veto of the President in this direction is correct in terms of the fact that we are thereby reducing the procedure with regard to the possibility of being correct in the first step in changing the purpose. However, more disturbing is the implementation of the second step when we already have an approved site, this approved site follows a procedure for the actual change of purpose. So far, the Act in force states that: When validating a final site for the site, the object loses its legal effect after one year of its entry into force. That is to say, an imperative period is given that one year, if there is no detailed planning, the next stage is virtually impossible in terms of change of purpose. Now what is proposed, which is adopted in the Law, says that the second stage of practice is becoming timeless, the dropping of the one-year term becomes a fact, and the very purpose is extended and goes in cases where a detailed planning is required to be implemented in order to implement the second stage of the procedure. From this point of view, the proposal that has been made, which has been voted on, is, in our view, a retreat from the mechanisms in force and protection of agricultural land. I believe that reducing the administrative burden on this particular bill is at least similar to really being in the direction of having the opportunity to realise this investment intention within a long period of time or not even to have an investment intention at all. The other direction of the proposed changes, which are being attacked by the President, is related to § 30. In practice, fellow Members of the Patriotic Front have made quite an effort to really resolve a question relating to the fact that, in May, the six-year period had expired, during which part of the procedures in which the agricultural land was changed and no investment intentions were realised, had to be returned to a starting point. It is a fact that such a mechanism has been found and this mechanism is defined as actually precise enough in its direction that a new procedure with the submission of up-to-date documents and in a relatively short period of time, i.e. one month, is needed to be implemented and pass through the relevant committee in order to allow the deadline to last another six years. Here, what the President said is two things. Firstly, there is no time limit within which the person who has respectively passed the six-year period to submit a new request for what is happening, i.e. to request, within a certain period, a continuation of the change of purpose for a new period, which is a fact. The second thing that we also accept, and which the President defines as unacceptable, is the text relating to the fact that if, in any form, this procedure has ceased, that is, the Commission refuses to continue with a new term the change of purpose, from here on, the amount paid by the natural person or company concerned is reimbursed to it. There is absolutely no economic logic here, no economic estimates of what values and what amounts we are talking about. During the Commission's discussion, however, about how many cases we are talking about, what amounts we are talking about, it was pointed out that perhaps about 200 thousand, but representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests kept a perimeter, saying that they could not know how much really the procedures could possibly be returned the funds for the simple reason that the municipalities had basic information, and in them there was no such information at this stage. From now on, I enter into a procedure that even if the text is written like this, it will not act for many reasons. Firstly, there is no signed procedure on how the funds from the fees that have been paid would be returned. Secondly, who will pay or return these fees. You may say the Ministry of Agriculture, but this is not specified in any form at all, and even this good intention, which has been realized in the Bill, cannot happen. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal in § 30 is fighting with the text of Danail Kirilov, who has a proposal which I think is much more feasible and logical from a legal point of view: when the realization of the investment intention cannot be carried out due to an already imposed regulatory or general administrative act, prohibitions and decisions to change the purpose of agricultural land and is repealed, the fee paid to the interested parties shall be paid. That is, once we have settled the issue in § 28, in § 30 we are trying to settle it again, even if it is for the welded cases. Either way, colleagues, what has come as a final result of these three votes, four or five committees, I can no longer count them, it seems to me that something that is not working will not solve the issues of any of those who need or who, in some form, have problems with the change of purpose and therefore we believe that the president's veto enables us to correct ourselves precisely in the part relating to the amendment of the Law on the conservation of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u7	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to announce that the Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms will support the President's veto, not for anything else, but in the expression that our position has always been consistent, principled and firm. I would like to remind you that, at the first vote, we alone in the movement for rights and freedoms, voted against this bill, just as we voted in committees, so there is no way we can vote differently now. How did it come to this? If you recall, the first proposed bill in this edition of this Parliament was the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. Then, under street pressure, under the influence of protesters outside, the government withdrew this bill, which could not solve the issue of those who were running out of time to change their purpose as of May 2017. The same texts are now being tried to be implanted in..Translation and closing provisions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to announce that we are absolutely in agreement with the President's motives. They are legally and fundamentally valid for us because the proposals contradict texts from the Constitution. In our Constitution, agricultural land is declared a special kind of value for national wealth and is ordered under a special regime other than other types of property. It is precisely the idea of this law on the conservation of agricultural land, I stress, that it has the idea and philosophy to protect agricultural land and to keep them in the status of agricultural land and not to change this status and that they are irretrievably lost for agricultural activity. Because otherwise, colleagues, this law wouldn't be called the Agricultural Land Conservation Act and it would have been said..........................................................in order to change the use of agricultural land................................... and some wise people before us.............................................................................................................................................. It is said for a reason that it only happens when it is needed and only when it is conditioned. In this sense, the President, in his motives and arguments, is absolutely right and in fact is no different from the motives and arguments that we put forward at both first reading and in the committees. The philosophy itself is to preserve agricultural land. Now, with these changes, we make it possible for everyone who has the desire to change the purpose of agricultural land to make it an easy and quick procedure. On the contrary, philosophy is to be conservative, to be complex, to be difficult and to change the purpose of agricultural land only and only in cases where there is a real need and a real need for this change. Another argument by the President, with which we agree, is that these proposals were made between first and second readings, and when we voted on the Draft at first reading, these proposals were gone, and in this sense we find that the President is right in his argument that this contradicts the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, because the proposed texts are contrary to the philosophy of proposals at first reading Draft. The deadline provided for from 2011 until now, for six years, colleagues who had the good will, who had the intention to carry out the investment process, had enough time to do so. Six years is a long enough time to overcome both financial obstacles, both administrative obstacles and any other kind of obstacles. So I think that six years after this period to further extend the time limit, allows for an endless process that can last forever and this status as non-farming land on a significant part of the area in our country to continue to stand that way. What are we really legitimizing with this text? We are legitimizing solutions to change the purpose that do not exist in legal peace. Since May 2017, they have dropped a priori. Now, with these old-date texts, we return things that have already expired purely legally. Our other consideration is that the Transitional and Final Provisions make changes that are socially sensitive. Thus, they do not go to public discussion, are not debated in the Bulgarian society and so many important decisions that are made here simply pass by the way into transitional and concluding provisions. That's how you did it the first time you proposed this bill, and there was an incredible opposition from society. Today this is not observed because you are using the gap when all these people are dealing with the second lift of Bansko, with the Istanbul Convention and, by the way, some very important and sensitive texts for the Bulgarian society are being passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u10	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! From this tribune today, there have been a lot of untruths. But before I refer specifically to each and every one of them, I would like to ask, what did the President's veto unite the nation with? I think that this institution, which I think we should hold on to a pedestal, does not see what stands above the pedestal, because from the beginning of the work of the National Assembly we already have several times exercised the right to such a veto, which are not on such important issues as should be considered in this aspect. How we divided the citizens with this veto into those who are owners and have the right to defend their property, and, to the other side, pseudogreen, green and all other people who have contributed and have done enough damage to Bulgaria with their actions. But let's not start the topic of how the crown in Bulgaria entered and who was the reason for this crown in Bulgaria, because of which hundreds of thousands of acres of forests are currently being cut down. Let's get back to the point. I can see that the people on the left of the room got a little uninteresting and they're smiling and I'm going to explain to them that now their smiles could freeze. [[Radio and lines from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, I don't think I've ever called as much from the back row as you do, and you should respect what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u11	That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u12	Essentially, Mr. Apostolov, don't talk to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u13	What are the President's motives? The President's motives basically say that Article is being violated. 21 of the Constitution. I could ask if there was a violation of art. 17, para. 1, t. 3 of the Private Property Privacy Constitution? You're not breaking art. 19 of the Constitution, which says that the citizens' initiative is of free economic initiative, and they can do with their property what they might find well, naturally within the framework of the law? I would like to ask: how could we oblige the owners of agricultural land who do not want to process it, do not want it to be rented, rented, or rented or any other form of processing, how will we oblige this land to process it, and not for example to build on it? These owners, since they don't want to process it or dedicate it to processing, they keep it deserted. There is no legal framework and base in the country to oblige this land to be processed at this time. And another thing, coworkers. I would like to explain to most of you who are now smiling here in this Chamber, I can tell you that you are not at all clear on what procedure we are talking about. Here in this room, people who know exactly what procedure it is are counting on the fingers of my hand. I would like to explain to you from this tribune so that we know what we have done with these changes. The first thing we have proposed.. does not matter how we offer, Mr. A..... we have used our legal right to make these proposals in the Transitional and Final Provisions. We are not importing the changes to this law in Transitional and Final Provisions. As Mrs. Bachvarova said, twelve more laws are changing. Why don't you comment, for example, in these Transitional and Final Provisions, on the changes to the Forest Act, because there are some very fragile things there, but obviously they are useful to you and there is no point in commenting on them, and you comment precisely on the Agricultural Land Conservation Act? What did we offer? We proposed for procedures which expired after May 2017, if applications for the renewal of such a procedure were re-applied to the person, and only if the procedure had been completed, i.e. with a valid, effective decision to change agricultural land, its fee would be refunded or recognised for the new procedure. The other which Professor Bachvarova so generously pointed out in his statement that, you see, the failure to enter into force of PUPs, and with only one playground makes it easy for people to sneak between the doors, that is not true, Mrs. Bachvarova. Because, as you yourself said in your speech, the establishment of a site is an intermediate act with one decision that does not lead to a change in the purpose of agricultural land. If there is a dispute in this thing, it means that really many people in this House do not understand what this is about. Thus, the person X, if he wants to make a change in the purpose of the agricultural land, appears before the relevant committee, submits an application, together with the property document and sketch, and applies coordinate points on the property within the scope of these coordinate points he wants to make his investment intention. It receives such an interim act, which is called the decision of the committee. However, this does not change the purpose of the land. It can stay for tens of years agricultural. It's just that this interim decision isn't doing him any good. From there on, and cannot carry out investment intentions on this land. If the person himself decides to continue the procedure, from then on he should submit and enter into force decisions to assess environmental compatibility. That's what I call them under a general plan................................................................................................................................................................................. 6 or procedure under art. 4 for assessment of compliance, I will call it an assessment of an urgent need. And only if that assessment has entered into force, then it can continue if it naturally asks for its procedure, because it may not want to continue this procedure. However, during this time, the land remains agricultural, even though there is such an interim act and such a decision of the Commission. So what do we lose from having such an interim act? Nothing loses the state. The owner will, of course, continue his procedure, and may not continue it. From then on, there are some other moments that have been veiled neither by the Greens nor by the opposers of this law. It is very well known to everyone who understands that the environmental compatibility document has only been valid for five years. That is, if you do not carry out your investment plan, even if the land is changed, after the five-year period you can do absolutely nothing on this land because the assessment of the competent authority is no longer valid. You also do not say that at that time, within this five-year period, if the investor, if the owner wanted to change the parameters of the PUP, i.e. if the PUP was for a business yard but changed it to a hotel, his environmental assessment, even though the five-year period had not expired, also becomes immediately invalid. In other words, an environmental assessment shall be made in any change to the detailed planning plan and if it is not compatible with the objectives of the previous one. Such an assessment is absolutely mandatory, and that is not to be said. Apart from that, even under confirmed procedures for the property concerned, owners are subject to a number of restrictive conditions that no one raises, namely that if, within three years of reaffirming the decision on change of purpose has not been requested and no building permit has been granted, this land cannot be built either. Apart from that, and within a six-year period, if the actual construction of the investment intention has not started with the opening of a playground with Model 2 Act is also lost. And when the site is opened, we are already entering into other hypotheses, which I agree with Mrs. Bachvarova that this law is quite compiled and from one moment on forwards the whole procedure to the Law on Structure of the Area. Another thing I'd like to say. The Greens, so massively on their appearances, raised the question that they would rebuild the Black Sea and raise a flag of a plot of 800 acres, which is located in the land of St. Nicolas. I have done my hard work, honourable colleagues, and I would like to introduce you to this property so that you can understand that nothing can happen to it at all. This property in the land of St. George's. Nicholas. [[shows sketch, format A3]] Here is the property located in a protected zone for birds and not as environmentalists claim that there are absolutely no bans on it. It is true, it is not in a protected area..Caliakra, is not in the Ponto-Sarman Steppes, but is in a protected zone. In other words, there are a number of complex restrictions on it. Apart from that, although at that time this property is owned by a legal person, it is composed of 38 properties with an area of 12 to 40 acres. They were purchased, naturally for investment purposes, and subsequently merged into a common property with this area. Before the big property was united the procedures for changing the purpose of small properties were made in the period 2006 - 2008 by the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters. For each of these properties has been submitted accordingly and there is some valid detailed planning plan, but, notice, colleagues, the five-year period of this environmental assessment has already expired. Apart from that, this ecological assessment has applied to the 38th number of properties that now make up the big property. No investment intention has been submitted to him at this time. It must start completely again to do a procedure, as the small PUPs of these 38 properties are invalid because they are re-entered within certain limits after the unification of the property. It must be made an absolutely new detailed plan. The procedure has to go absolutely from the very beginning, and it's not gonna get anywhere. Therefore, the investor has not conducted such a procedure because he knows that the property falls into a protected zone and this procedure will go to an EIA procedure. It will be appealed by the relevant environmental organisations, the owner has made peace with this thing and the property at this time is being processed as an agricultural one, although the cadastral map says But so what?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u14	Mr. Apostolov, shall we extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u15	No, I'm graduating. That's what I'd like to tell you, colleagues. I think I've made it clear enough that everyone in this House who doesn't even know what it's about and what it's about in these changes, understand and make it clear to you that the president's veto is not the protection of an ego and that this veto should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u17	Dear Mr. Apostolov, I have a specific question for you. After your many-minute speech, did you not have to make a declaration of conflict of interest before because you know the whole subject matter in great depth, and does it not affect your family interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Apostolov! I don't think there's any talk in the veto about this particular property that you've been talking about for five or six minutes to explain the procedure to us. There it is clearly stated that the way in which this change is made is not in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land but in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Agriculture and Planting Material is vicious. Next, in art. 21 of the Constitution says that the land is basically wealth and is limited, there is no way to produce this article is violated by these changes. And here you're explaining to us a specific site, some Greens that have nothing to do with the president's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For a line or a personal explanation? [[Replication by National Representative Bürhan Abase.]] Okay, wait until the procedure is completed, and I'll give you the floor. Next line? There is. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u21	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleague Apostolov, you were not consistent and you were not clear enough in your exhibition, and you did not explain what happened when the person who owns the property falls under the assumptions of the proposed changes in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, does not want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u22	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u23	...doing business as a farmer and does not want to farm this land. Won't she be deserted?! That is exactly what will happen and you should have said it clearly, and then the President's main motive for breaking art. 21 falls away, as the particular protection of agricultural land is not concerned and does not only concern it remaining agricultural, but also does not remain desolate. We still do not have rules in our legislation to oblige a person to do farming by owning agricultural land, yet by leaving, taking into account the privacy of private property, to assess for what, when and how he will use his right to property on this land, there is no way to oblige any owner to process the land accordingly, to keep it and maintain its status. We all know that a land that is not cultivated for agricultural purposes becomes desolate and its category immensely and inevitably falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Apostolov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u25	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am very pleased that a BSP colleague has asked me if I have any interests, whether I am in conflict of interest. Here, gentlemen, from this highest tribune in the country, I am telling you that I have never had, I have no intention, and I will never have any intention on such procedures to change the purpose of agricultural land, because they simply do not interest me. Here, from this highest tribune I declare it! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleague, so from place to place, you're very simple tossing things around. I am telling you that I have not conducted and will not conduct procedures to change the purpose of agricultural land. Regarding the replacements, I did not want to enter into political strife, because I think that we should talk about professionalism from this tribune, but clearly to you political talk is inherent and the nonsense you create from the stands and in society are an unnecessary necessity for you in the activities of your policy and I will answer you. Would you like us to make a reference, to oblige the Ministry of Agriculture in what years and during which management your and jointly with the DPS have been made at most of the number of replacements of agricultural land, and subsequently 80% of them have changed and are built? And I, if you want, as I have the necessary information, can show you a file of 187 replacements in one order for over 40,000. Dekara! On one day, in one order! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, she's at the Department of Agriculture, so you have the opportunity to demand her from there. And let's make a reference to how many of these hundreds of properties of this order are at this time of agricultural use, and are used for agricultural needs, how many of them are of a changed use? There are golf courses built on them that only one of the terrains has an area of 1300 acres and the other one has 900 acres? And as for my replacements, sir, yes, I have made replacements. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] I've made replacements and all these lands that I've made as replacements, sir, are currently strictly used only for agricultural purposes! All to the last square inch! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] And there's one more thing I can tell you from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u26	Mr. Apostolov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u27	I can tell you a lot of things. Thank you, my time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. You had a personal explanation, Mr. Abase. [[Noise and lines.]] In her speech, she was mentioned. I waited for the procedure to be completed, so I'm giving Mr. Abass a personal explanation right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Apostolov, I address you because you have addressed me. Dear Mr. Apostolov, pay attention to me because I take the floor for you to mention me and I have the right to a personal explanation and I want you to hear it. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] First of all, I take the floor as a personal explanation because I was mentioned by you. Secondly, on several occasions you have announced that there are no people in this House who understand the subject we are talking about. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u30	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u31	And thirdly, you said that after what you were about to say, the smiles of some colleagues would freeze. I don't think they froze, so we're not very sure. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] With regard to who understands what, I would like to remind you that I have been three mandates chairman of the Interdepartmental Commission for Change of Purpose and in this Chamber I think there are two other people, I will point them out with my eyes, for example Ms. Taneva and Mrs. Bachvarova, who understand the topic. Regarding how convincing you are to your colleagues, they didn't freeze their smiles because you weren't convincing at all. Once again: the law is not for change of purpose, it is for the conservation of agricultural land. This right given for a changed status is not eternal in time, it is given with certain limitations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u32	Personal explanation, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u33	If you want this thing, why didn't you put it in the normal order to get into the portal for public discussion and public discussion, then you put it in the transitional and final provisions of a law on crop material?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u34	Your time is up, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u35	If you have a lot of information about what changes of purpose were made, you should have given them during the discussion because, with colleagues, we made a decision in the dark without knowing which areas, which decares and which parts of the country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Any other speeches, colleagues? Do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u37	Mrs. Chairman, how are you? Did you sleep well? [[Laughs and laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u39	Then why didn't you make a comment to Apostolov? Where is he going to talk about our fellow Members present in this House, revered professors, that they're talking nonsense? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why I feel like you haven't woken up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u40	What does this have to do with my sleeping, Mr. Chenchev? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u41	Please, I insist you make an observation. Because, first of all, his qualifications from this tribune, who understands and who doesn't understand, are one by hand, but, second of all, make a remark to him about attacking our colleagues. I insist!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Thank you for interested in how I slept. I think the debate is moving very well where I should be making remarks. I think it wasn't said much, and you have the opportunity to take an attitude and express your considerations. Here you are, Mr. Pawnov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u43	Madam President, I'm not going to ask you if you slept well, because you look good and it's clear now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u44	You already know. Thanks for the compliment!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u45	But I would like to tell you that you need to make a comment to the fellow Member because he said that political talks are being held. This is a political tribune and political talks are held quite naturally. And there's no nonsense when we ask you something specific and you answer us if you're in a conflict of interest. You've been making trades, and when you can't exactly answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u46	Please, Mr. Pawnov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u47	... She's trying to insult you, and you guys keep quiet like you're not sleeping. Please make a note to him that this is not the way to talk, even though we are opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u48	I made a remark to him, Mr. Pawnov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u49	Today we are opposition, tomorrow we will be ruling. Deal with it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the debate or at least one essential part of it began as early as May. This was perhaps the first bill to be dealt with by this National Assembly. And then a few things happened that seemed like we couldn't learn lessons, which led us to discuss this problem once again without solving it after all. What happened then? A speedy bill was introduced, it was submitted by MPs very quickly. Perhaps within hours there were brief opinions from the interested ministries that support the bill, but without saying much. There was a public issue, and the bill was withdrawn. What were we supposed to learn? We could've saved that veto, we could've saved that debate, but most importantly, we could've found the right solution. Even then, it should have become clear that there is strong public pressure and perhaps legitimate interest of the owners of such lands, which due to legal constraints, cannot benefit from them. This public pressure has its supporters in the cabinet at the highest level, but there is no support for the government as a policy, as the government obviously transfers this potato to the Ministry of Agriculture or any other ministry. Otherwise, they would have taken the initiative from May until now in order to hold the necessary public discussions, to do the conciliation procedure and to save one of the important moments that forced the President to properly veto this issue. On the other hand, it immediately became clear that the issue was sensitive, as there was also a very strong response from worried people that there was a way to build sensitive areas. This public reaction is not supported by the government. It is obviously afraid of her and is yet another reason why she should not be involved in this project. And then correctly, colleagues from GERB and the United patriots withdrew the bill, do you remember what explanations? They said, "Goodness is our idea, but we didn't explain it well, we didn't present it well, we didn't discuss it enough, we created fears." Whether these fears are justified or unfounded, unfortunately, almost a year later we still cannot say, as the technique has been chosen to bring these provisions back into another law. This can't go unnoticed, my dear colleagues. First of all, it should not normally have been allowed in this law to examine this matter, as it does not enter its subjective scope at first reading. The law on planting and sowing material was a law which had to remove the administrative burden in this area and was a series of great efforts of the government and the National Assembly to alleviate the administrative burden. It has nothing to do with building, PUPs and all the different topics we're discussing right now. However, this was imported inside. It was introduced inside and chaos was created, including on this platform, a proposal which was submitted not even in the order in which the proposals were submitted.. with the signature of the MP, and the Commission during the discussion between first and second reading suddenly appeared this proposal. Then it is discussed here in the Chamber. They showed up, you remember both from the left and the right, and from the importer of this proposal, criticism of the President of the Legal Commission that by interfering with the debate, it is not clear what we are voting on. This sounded right here on this tribune, and it's written in the transcript. A special new committee has been challenged. All this not only does it not give answers, it constantly asks questions and is a common mark of all our legislation, but in this matter it cannot pass. Therefore, when the President says, I quote: I am led by the belief that changes in the legislation that affect the fundamentals of the Constitution must go through all the stages of the process of calling, we cannot reasonably oppose this sentence and we must support it. Moreover, in particular, we are talking about a constitutional good for the Bulgarian land, which is enshrined as basic national wealth in our Constitution. We cannot treat this problem lightly, and there is a problem with conflicting legitimate interests. They can be approached by compromise, and a political decision can be made. Whatever you choose, dear colleagues, you must do it honestly and honestly, saying what your motives are, what your reasons are. For our part, we can say what are the risks and the debate to go. Quietly, sneakyly, in the back of this parliament, it's just not gonna happen. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u53	Mrs. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I do not understand the excitement with which you welcome me to this stand, but thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I will allow myself, since we are discussing the president's veto, to read to you something that fellow Krum Zarkov started, but it was just one sentence, I will read you the entire passage to find out what this is about, because we are finally gathered here to defend the public interest. We are not gathered here this National Assembly to continue to work as it almost began with the examination of a clearly frank lobbyist law, which the importers themselves then withdrew, about which colleague Zarkov spoke to you. And please listen carefully, if you haven't read it, it'll be useful if you've read it, maybe one more time you'll think about what the President said in his motives. He says: With these changes, the arrangement stimulates farmers to change their purpose and in a very long period of time not to realize their needs, waiting for a convenient moment at which there will be investment interest. As a result, public interest is affected as the land of changed purpose will be desolate. They can no longer be used for agricultural purposes, and construction has not yet begun. The purpose of the Law is replaced by the conservation of agricultural land and the compliance of the adopted arrangements with art. 21 of the Constitution. Do you understand that, indeed, instead of making a law on the conservation of agricultural land and improving it, we are doing the opposite of creating conditions for agricultural land not to be protected, to be used for something else? What does the president say next? I am led by the belief that changes in legislation that affect the fundamentals of the Constitution must go through all stages of the legislative process. This is the only way to ensure transparency and enable all interested parties to express their views. Does anyone mind that sentence?! Isn't that right?! That is why there is a public discussion before the introduction of any law, when it comes to such an important element, of such national wealth, as is agricultural land in Bulgaria, and not to enter through the backyard with some pseudo-legit to make changes at any time and by the way not always tolerated by the parliamentary committees' guides, some times rightly rejected, this time I do not know what right and I do not know on what basis to be adopted to be included in a law on which its scope is not such, and it is not a written proposal, as has been said, and so, in a discussion: Let's see what happens if we include this proposal. Seriously, not serious about such an important problem as the agricultural land! The President continues: I do not contest the right of the Members of the National Assembly to do... [[Noise in GERB.]] Madam President, may I...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u54	Please be quiet. Please be quiet, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u55	Still, if you're not interested...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u56	Make your speech, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u57	...if you're not interested, colleagues, you can leave. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] Within the parliamentary time of the group...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u58	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u59	...I'm making my point. Anyone who doesn't care to come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u60	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Ermenkov, continue with the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u61	I ask the President of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs to behave properly. [[Heckling]] I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u62	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u63	In no case do I dispute the right of Members of the National Assembly to make proposals after the adoption of a bill in the first vote, but the proposals must not contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. In that sense, it is also art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as the reasons of Decision No 5 of 2015 of the Constitutional Court. Can anyone argue with that thing that's true?! Nobody, but you do it, you do it and you turn it into a vicious practice. And at the end, the President says: The inclusion of changes in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Lands, which lead to an unjustified extension of the possibilities for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the Transitional and Final Regulations of another law, gives the impression that the aim is to avoid widespread public discussion and the detailed motivation of the proposed changes................................ is not to create an impression...................... I consider that the Members of the National Assembly owe it to everyone they represent, a clear, motivated and open discussion of the rules for changing the purpose of agricultural land. Guys, we really owe this. And in order for this to happen, I call on you to support the veto of the President to vote against this law, in order not to have to do as in the previous veto, then urgently to gather again to adopt any decision of a bill that you have adopted, then rejected by the President as vetoed, you rejected the veto, but then came your prime minister and made you change things. Let's not make those mistakes again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u64	On the subject, Mr. Ermenkov, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u65	Let's not make those mistakes again. It's on the subject, Madam President, and on the...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u67	...the behaviour of colleagues from the ruling majority and the relapses they constantly make in their policies and in their behaviour. I call on you: be really reasonable, respect the public interest of the people, respect the public interest of those who really want the Bulgarian land to give birth, not build on it and support the veto by voting against the proposals for a third vote Bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, according to art. 86, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may be considered to have been re-approved if at least 121 Members of the National Assembly voted for it. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Seed and Planting Material adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2018. They voted 203 MPs: 124, against 73, abstention 6. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Planting and Planting Material has been re-accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] The law will be sent to the President for promulgation in the Official Gazette within 7 days of its receipt, according to art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Negative vote please, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! [[Big group of GERB MPs are leaving the hall. Noise.]] Madam President, if I may...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u70	Please, colleagues, take your seats or leave the room. Hold on, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u71	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u72	Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll take the floor for a negative vote. I voted against it because we have never been convinced by the majority ruling colleagues that this law is extremely necessary and that it does not affect lobbying interests. More important in today's vote was that the ruling coalition again in an important, key vote relied on the Party Group. The Volja-Khost is said in this parliament as an opposition party, but in important key votes it supports the ruling majority. Let the Bulgarian citizens see this very clearly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Another negative vote? I can't see. We continue with the next item on the agenda, and it is the second item on Thursday: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MARITIME STRAIGHTS, INTERNAL WATERS AND PORTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, PUT IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF 6 JANUARY 2018 Mr. Letifov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Veliko Zanchev, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u76	Please vote on the procedure so made. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! I offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 7 February 2018, a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Maritime Administration, Mr. Valentin Yovev Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Vesela Nacheva Head of Cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Waters. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, who stated that the main purpose of the proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning. Directive 2014/89/EU introduces an obligation for Member States to organise and implement maritime spatial planning as an instrument of the Integrated Maritime Policy supporting and facilitating the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy, a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. As a result of the marine spatial planning carried out, each Member State should, by 31 March 2021, develop a marine spatial plan with the scope and content set out in national legislation, subject to the requirements laid down in Directive 2014/89/EU. Separate texts of the Bill provide for the overall management and coordination of the activities of the maritime spatial planning to be carried out by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who is also responsible for the development and maintenance of the marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. An Advisory Council on maritime spatial planning shall also be established as an aid authority to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of cooperation and coordination in the maritime spatial planning process. The marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria is intended to be developed on the basis of the analysis of the available ecological, geological, geomorphologic and physical information about the marine spaces of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is available through the National Portal for Space Data. Provisions are proposed aimed at improving the regulations in the field of spatial planning, investment design and construction of ports and specialized port sites. The Law specifies the texts relating to the development and modernisation of public transport ports. The general plan of a public transport port is intended to be the basis for its construction and expansion. The general plan of the public transport port will define the concepts of long-term development in the respective territory and aquatoria, justified by technological and marketing conclusions, as well as the relationship of these concepts with the integrated transport strategy approved by the Council of Ministers for the period up to 2030, the Maritime spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, the respective concepts and schemes for spatial development and the higher-level planning. Basic legal rules on investment design of new ports under art. 107-109 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria and of new specialized ports, for the extension of existing ports under art. 107-109 of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria and of new specialized port sites and specialized port sites, as well as for the construction of individual sites and sub-units in yacht ports, fishing ports and special purpose ports, taking into account the specifics of the sites of investment design. A requirement is introduced for mandatory use of ship equipment for automatic identification system by ships located in the Bulgarian maritime and inland waterways and establishing the necessary prerequisites for collecting sufficient and up-to-date information about these ships necessary to ensure the safety of shipping and to achieve the security of ships and Bulgarian ports. A regulatory basis is established for the development and adoption of a National Search and Rescue Plan in the search and rescue area for which the Republic of Bulgaria is responsible, as well as updating the list of departments responsible for conducting search and rescue operations. In support of the bill, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Environment and Water spoke, who said that the proposed changes are timely and necessary. During the debates on the bill, the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Ivan Valkov spoke, who paid attention to the need of the proposed provisions concerning the placing of movable objects and facilities and of advertising, information and monumental-decorative elements in the territory of public transport ports and ports under art. The municipality's chief architect, based on a scheme approved by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, is authorised. On the part of Mr. Zhivko Petrov it was answered that the proposals in this direction fell within the scope of the bill during its public discussion by interested parties and the main purpose was to determine the terms and conditions for authorising the placing on the ports of movable objects and facilities and of promotional, information and monumental and decorative elements. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018 be adopted on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. There is also a report from the Environment and Water Commission. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill in question gives many powers to the Minister of Regional Development. The Commission has not seen the Bill at first reading in the Commission. I ask you to assess the work of the National Assembly will it continue in this way, and the Commission responsible then has no meaning, and in this draft there are many issues related to regional development and to the competence of the Minister of Regional Development. I think that's as far as we're going to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I will immediately make efforts to ensure the presence of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. You are absolutely right that there is no report by this Commission that has been mentioned to me in the report, there are other accompanying committees. By the time we hear their reports, we'll have information on the possibility of the minister appearing in the Chamber. Mr. Iankov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is precisely in support of what my colleague Jankova said and what you commented on. When discussing this bill, we need to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The presence of the minister is mandatory. Therefore, I ask that the debates be terminated and continued by viewing the Law in the presence of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u82	Mr. Iankov, the debates have not started, we are dealing with reports. I have made the commitment, I am making a reference to the possibility that the Minister will come before the debates we will put the question of his presence again and we will comment on whether we will be able to continue working. Please, for this opportunity. Good afternoon, Mr. Minister, come in. [[In the hall goes Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Please inform me of the possibility for the Minister to appear in the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetkov, to present the report to the Committee on Environment and Water. There is another accompanying report and we will probably have time to react.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. At a meeting held on 8 February 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Captain Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mr. Valentin Yovev Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Iliana Todorova Director of the Directorate of Water Management at the Ministry of Environment and Water, and Mrs. Galina Balusheva Chief Expert in the same Directorate. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Zanchev. He pointed out that the main objective of the bill is the introduction of the requirements of Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning in the Bulgarian legislation. In this regard, each Member State should, by 31 March 2021, develop a marine spatial plan with the scope and content set out in national legislation. The Bill introduces the requirement to implement maritime spatial planning and the content of the concept. The authority competent for the implementation of marine spatial planning and for the development of the Marine spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria and other participants in the process shall be established. The scope, tasks and content of the country's Marine Space Plan, the obligations to ensure wide public access to the project for it, the order of coordination, acceptance and approval of this plan and the means of ensuring subsequent publicity shall be introduced. Mr. Zanchev pointed out that the Law also offers improvement of the regulations in the field of planning, investment design and construction of ports and port sites. The presentation was supplemented by Captain Petrov in connection with the establishment of a regulation for emergency activities in port areas and maritime spaces. The Bill provides for an opportunity for the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from three ministers of transport, home affairs and defence, to adopt a national search and rescue plan, including measures against spills and others. In the presentation of the bill took part Deputy Minister Jovev, who noted that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works agreed the Bill without remarks. He pointed out that the marine spatial plan cannot be isolated from the overall plan of all Black Sea territories, as the degradations in the Black Sea affect more than 160 million people. Ms. Todorova pointed out that during the procedure the Ministry of Environment and Water has agreed with editorial notes which have been adopted. It noted that maritime spatial planning as an element of the Integrated Maritime Policy is largely linked to the sustainable use of the marine environment and its conservation, as well as to the implementation of the Water Framework Directive and the Maritime Strategy. The President of the Committee on Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva and the MPs Rumen Georgiev, Atanas Kostadinov and Manol Genov took a position on the bill and in response Mr. Yovev gave further explanations. Ms. Ivelina Vasileva stressed the importance of the Bill and noted that there is a platform that provides coordination of sectoral policies in maritime and coastal areas. She pointed out that the interaction should be worked out, given the two planned documents - River Basin Management Plan and the Maritime Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on Environment and Water proposes, with 18 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and abstention, to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. There has been a report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. At its regular meeting held on 7 February 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft law was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Captain Zhivko Petrov Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration at the same ministry. This bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning. The draft Law is envisaged as Measure No 82 in the Action Plan for 2017 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union adopted by Decision No 35 of the Council of Ministers of 19 January 2017. Directive 2014/89/EU is part of the European Union's consistently implemented Integrated Maritime Policy, which is a comprehensive approach to all policies relating to seas and oceans, and is carried out with a view to promoting coordinated decision-making to achieve maximum results in terms of sustainable development and others. The principle of this policy is that Member States benefit more from seas and oceans with less environmental impact by coordinating their sectoral policies on: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime shipping and ports, marine environment protection, marine research, maritime and coastal tourism, etc. Under the Directive, Member States should organise and implement maritime spatial planning as an instrument of the Integrated Maritime Policy supporting and facilitating the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy, a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. As a result of the marine spatial planning carried out, each Member State should develop, by 31 March 2021, a marine spatial plan with the scope and content set out in national legislation, subject to the minimum requirements laid down in the Directive. I think I can miss some of the information in the report, as it repeats itself with the opinions of some of the committees. That's why I'm going to the finish line. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds asked how the changes in this law would affect the delimitation of the sea border between Bulgaria and Romania, as there are unresolved issues and in practice, in order to develop a marine spatial plan, they should be specified. Captain Petrov explained that the delimitation has no direct link to the design of the spatial plan. He stressed that the spatial plan must be designed in consultation with neighbouring Member States under the Directive. Ms. Ivelina Vasileva, Vice-President of KEVKEF, asked to what extent the spatial planning plan is integrated with the Maritime Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the river basin management plans. Captain Petrov assured that maritime spatial planning would lay low on the Marine Strategy and upgrade it. In addition, Mrs. Vasileva asked for clarification on an existing requirement for the time scope of this plan, when it should be adopted at national level and if there is any period of action after which the plan should be updated or revised to the requirements of the Directive. Captain Petrov explained that such a period is also available after its expiry or in case of a case, the plan is subject to review and update. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with 7 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. That was the last report I received. According to our rules, the importer should be able to present the bill. We don't have a representative of the importer. Do we have any information on the possibility of the Minister being present? We're still trying to secure the minister's presence. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are about to proceed to a debate. At the same time, there was also a procedural proposal to postpone the debate on the grounds of the Minister's absence and that no report of the Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works has been submitted to the Bill. Such an opportunity is available................................................................................ 55 of our Rules allow for a proposal to be made and discussed to postpone the debate. I must put to the vote Mrs. Yankova's proposal, supported by Mr. Yanev. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to vote on the procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 55, para. 2, p. 4 to postpone the debates on the bill until the presence of the minister is ensured. Please vote. They voted 122 MPs: 40, against 77, abstention 5. The motion to postpone the debate has not been accepted. I inform the MPs that the efforts to secure the minister continue. I've been informed of that. There's a conversation going on to make a connection with him. We are going to debate the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this case, I will not comment on the transposition of Directive 2014/89 of the European Parliament, as it is generally clear that spatial planning is being introduced, a maritime spatial plan is being established, an Advisory Council to the Minister of Regional Development, the functions of the master plans of ports are being complemented. But, as usual, when a directive is transposed into Bulgarian legislation, sometimes this legislation is complemented by members who have no place in the relevant bill. The specific case in the Law on marine spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria are the additions in art. 112, i.e. the points from the point from the point of entry to the point of entry. There is a proposal that contradicts both economic logic and the way commercial companies operate in Bulgaria, whether they are municipal, state or private. I will quote you on the concrete proposals. The placement of movable objects and facilities and promotional information and monumental and decorative elements in the territory of the public transport ports shall be authorised by the Chief Architect of the municipality, on the basis of a scheme approved by the Minister of Transport. The authorisation to place objects or facilities under art. 112r, para. 1 shall be given by the chief architect of the municipality at the location of the port. To the application for placing of sites or facilities under art. 112 a scheme representing a sample of the existing specialized detailed plan of the port is proposed. In the case of para. 1, t. 2 the request for authorisation to place the premises shall be accompanied by the express written consent of the owner of the port. What does that mean? That for each moving object in the respective port, whether it is state or private, the port operator must wait for permission from the municipality's chief architect. No other company does not have such a requirement, especially if the company's assets or infrastructure, whether municipal, state or private, is separated from the other private or public property, as is the case with ports. The same is the situation with the adverts again requested permission from the architect of the municipality, or a corresponding scheme by the Minister of Transport. To make it clear what we're talking about, keep in mind that a moving object is a trailer, a living container, including a chemical toilet. You know, in order to put a chemical toilet in the port, it has to involve the Minister of Transport, offer him a specialized scheme. He must examine and approve it, then return to the municipality, where the chief architect will issue permission to place them. That's ridiculous, I think. It's the same for commercials. Note that for one advertisement meter per meter, for one poster or for one billboard to place the port concerned, that is, the port operator must pass the same procedure, provided that it is private or municipal property and nowhere else in the Bulgarian legislation there are such restrictive measures to other companies. Or another example I'm going to give you is the placement of a wagon that is a moving object, on a certain pier, on a given terminal, to process a ship. This wagon is for dockers and mechanics, respectively for port workers to take their breaks or to warm themselves in winter. What happens as the same ship, the same cargo after 10 days stands at another terminal on another pier? Again, the same procedure, again specialized schemes, must be carried out again by the Minister of Transport, respectively the municipality, so that this wagon can move from the 2nd Pier to the 22nd Pier to the other terminal. This we can't support, I'm talking about a second reading if it stays that way. Another thoughtless proposal.. When permission is given to place a moving object, there must be explicit written consent of the owner. Given that in the contract between the GPPI, the State-owned company "Port Infrastructure" and the port State operator, i.e. the port operator, does not have such a requirement at stake, this is clearly some new, unknown know-how that we are introducing into the Law in art. 112. The same applies to the concession contract between the State and the concessionaire. During the discussion it became clear that these proposals, these changes are not in the directive, but they were received during a public discussion. Well, yes, but we say the following: that is why are the experts of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to sift out the good proposals from those who are not applicable in the Bulgarian legislation. That is why we are bringing this up in plenary. At first reading, as I said, we will support the Bill, but I think it is appropriate from the Ministry of Transport, where they have placed these omissions in art. 112, to be the active between first and second readings and to propose such changes to solve the problem and to remove this gap, and on our part, the MPs will also make our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I don't see any references to Mr. Tishev's statement. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would agree with Mr Tishev's statement that this was raised as a question at the Commission's meeting, which we were looking at in the Bill. What was more interesting was that we came to a consensus that the article in question. 112, which is huge, must be edited in this part so that it is adequate and easy to apply. I would ask the MPs not to wait for the experts to prepare the proposals. I think we have had a good debate and we have, to some extent, clarified what the proposed changes to the article in question should look like. 112. I hope that the period, which is one week, will not be missed and that these proposals will be tabled so as to make a working Law. It's our responsibility and our duty. Otherwise, what you said, Mr. Tishev, you're right, but I think you found a consensus. So from now on, we just have to do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u90	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Letifov's statement? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I must inform you that the reference to the Minister's commitments shows that he is at the Advisory Council on the occasion of the introduction of tol systems. He also ordered the meeting building to be attended by Deputy Minister Denitsa Nikolova, who will probably come after the vote if there are no other speeches, because we will proceed to the vote. Once again: are there any speeches? I won't. I'm shutting down the bill. Let's move on to the vote. Dear Members of Parliament, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. Vote 117 MPs: 114, against none, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted with this draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers at first reading. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The first reading reports are next. Report from the Committee on Health. Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 February 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health, pharmaceutical industry and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Minister Kiril Ananiev. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the regulatory changes under discussion propose the creation of conditions and arrangements for the implementation of art. 83 of Regulation 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the treatment of a medicinal product for compassionate use, the introduction of specific measures for the monitoring of medicinal products and the restriction of their exports where necessary, as well as the optimisation of clinical trials and the establishment of conditions for the application of Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC. The Law also aims to reduce the administrative burden of making donations to medicinal products through the implementation of Measure No 8 of the Second Package of measures to reduce the regulatory burden adopted by Decision No 635 of the Council of Ministers of 2013, as well as other measures to reduce the administrative burden for economic operators. The provision of § 1 creates a legal possibility for patients who are not included in clinical trials to have access to treatment where there is no therapeutic alternative and the medicinal product is not authorised for use in another country, and these medicinal products will not be paid by public means. The criteria and procedure for performing treatment with a medicinal product for compassionate use are proposed to be laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Health. The Bill introduces measures to monitor medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List and to limit their exports in the absence or shortage of the country's territory. Minister Ananiev argued that the proposed mechanism is in line with Decision No 1 of 29 January 2015 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 5 of 2014. It is envisaged to establish an Expert Council of the Executive Medicines Agency (EMEA) to draw up a list of medicinal products for which export may be restricted. The list will be published on the Agency's website and wholesalers of medicinal products will be required to submit a notification before the planned export of these medicinal products is carried out. Prior to the establishment of the list of medicinal products for which export may be restricted, the IAL will draw up a list of observed medicinal products containing medicinal products for which notifications of planned exports have been received in the last three months by the Drug Executive Agency. An obligation shall be introduced to holders of a marketing authorisation to maintain a reserve of up to 10 per cent for medicinal products under art. 217c, para. 3 calculated on the basis of the consumption of the medicinal products concerned over the last six months. It is envisaged that the analysis for the identification of lack and shortage will be carried out under conditions and in order laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Health on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Drug Executive Agency. A requirement is introduced for the IAL to build a specialized electronic system for collecting and analysing information, for lack and shortage of medicinal products on the territory of the country within four months of the entry into force of the Law. In this way, data on the import of medicinal products on the territory of the country and on the quantities delivered at retail level and at hospital level will be linked to the data on the medicinal products implemented and paid by the National Health Insurance Fund included in the Positive Drug List. In order to strengthen administrative control, stricter administrative criminal provisions shall also be introduced in the event of a breach of the requirements for the performance of parallel exports of medicinal products. The proposed regulatory changes optimise the clinical trial activity and create conditions for the implementation of Regulation 536/2014. The resolution of clinical trials will be organised in an administrative procedure, providing for only one fee. In this regard, the obligation for clinical trials to set up ethical committees is removed. Measures are also proposed to reduce the administrative burden of making donations to medicinal products, as well as other measures related to the general reduction of the administrative burden for economic operators. Prof. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, informed the MPs that he represented the word organization fully supports the philosophy of the proposed legislative changes, with the specific proposals on the different texts of the regulations being detailed and motivated in the written opinion sent to the Committee on Health. Mr. Deyan Denev, Director of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria, Mrs. Boryana Marinkova, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Association for the Development of parallel trade in Bulgaria, Professor Tatiana Benisheva, President of the Bulgarian Drug Information Association, and Mrs. Adelina Lyubenova, Member of the Initiative Committee of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. They argued that they supported the will of the Ministry of Health's management to introduce measures to control the export of medicinal products, but at the same time indicated that due to certain uncertainties in the proposed texts of the provisions, additional problems would be created instead of solving existing drug supplies. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Health Commission expressed unanimous support for the proposed Draft and raised specific questions regarding the lack of a representative of the Office of Customs and in the composition of the Expert Council of the IAL, the form and content of the specialised electronic system for collecting and analysing information on lack and shortage of medicinal products, as well as on medical establishments where clinical trials are intended to be carried out with medicinal products containing narcotics. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u92	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. This was the committee's report. By additional order of 12 January 2018, the Bill was also assigned to the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. There has been a report from the Commission. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 8 February 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Health: Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health; Deputy Minister of Medicine: Associate Professor Asena Stoimenova, Executive Director, and Svetlin Spirov, Secretary General. The bill was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov, who focused on the five major changes. Establishment of terms and conditions for the implementation of art. 83 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the treatment of a medicinal product for compassionate use by issuing a regulation to the Minister of Health. Regulation of measures to monitor medicinal products and limit their exports where necessary. To this end, the Expert Council of the Drug Executive Agency will draw up a restrictive list of medicinal products. An obligation shall be introduced to holders of a marketing authorisation to maintain a reserve of up to 10 per cent for medicinal products under art. 217c, para. 3 and stricter administrative criminal provisions for infringements of the rules on parallel exports. Optimisation of clinical trial activities and conditions for implementing Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. Reducing the administrative burden of making donations to medicinal products by implementing Measure No 8 of the Second Package measures to reduce the regulatory burden adopted by Decision No 635 of the Council of Ministers of 2013 by replacing the existing regime from consensual to notification. Other measures are proposed to reduce the administrative burden for business. The period for issuing authorisations for persons wishing to carry out manufacturing and wholesale of medicinal products is proposed to be 60 days instead of 90 days as it has been so far. The requirement for the issue of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products to be submitted to the Drug Executive Agency after an on-site inspection that the health requirements in wholesale premises have been complied with in accordance with Regulation No 39. The requirement for applicants to issue a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy which is opened in a locality with a population of less than 10 000 inhabitants is also removed from the requirement to submit a document issued by the mayor of the municipality concerned, certifying the number of residents of the locality concerned. Attitudes on the presented bill took the MPs Adlen Shefket, Dora Hristova, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held with 13 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 5 abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Ananiev is present in the Chamber. He is the Minister of Health. Mr. Ananiev, at this stage you can take an opinion. For now, you don't want to. At any time during the debates you have this opportunity, there is no need to remind you of this. I am opening the debates on the draft in question. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Mikhailov, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Minister Ananiev! The Law proposed by importers is extremely important, timely and reflects an attempt to solve the serious problems that exist at the moment, with regard to one extremely ill for patients in Bulgaria and for Bulgarian citizens the problem of uncontrollable re-export of drugs, which concerns a volume of funds that are stunning to the entire volume of drug trade in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to data, about 60% of medicines entering the territory of the country are re-exported, which represents... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] We're not having a discussion, we're talking about data that's been published in the public domain. So the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support this bill at first reading with the following serious arrangements. We have done a very detailed analysis of all the paragraphs that are being proposed, and the first thing we should share with the honourable audience is that this Law on Medicine in Human Medicine represents the main holder, the main pillar around which drug policy revolves in the Republic of Bulgaria. And drug policy in the Republic of Bulgaria has a number of problems that have accumulated over the last 10 years and more, and these problems could partly now, between first and second reading, together with the proposals of importers, also be proposed as draft changes in the Law on Medicine in Human Medicine. I will allow myself, with just a few sentences, to draw your attention before I return to the paragraphs proposed by the honourable importers. This is the problem of the interaction between the High Technology Assessment Commission, the Commission in prices and reimbursement and the National Health Insurance Fund when new medicines are introduced on the Bulgarian market accessible to Bulgarian patients. We had enough painful discussion at the end of last year, which led to the veto of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was revised positively in the Chamber. Therefore, we will allow ourselves and procedurally ask for a maximum extension of the period between first and second readings in order to be able to do the right, legally necessary imports and be able to be properly discussed in the Chamber. In order for this chain of institutions, which I have allowed myself to mention to the honourable Chamber, to actually work well, but not to be a mechanical step, which repeats the same requirements for presenting the same files, documents, evidence, and this mechanism for entering each new drug, some of them are very subtle, to be in the interests of the state and in the interests of the Bulgarian patients. Secondly, already with regard to the specific paragraphs in the Bill, together with some of the professional organisations, we also have some considerations to share here and I will say them very specifically. First of all, this is § 2 as regards the composition of the Council, which will control and which will be regulated by the Director of the Drug Executive Agency, with the help of course, and under the direction of the Minister of Health. There we definitely believe that this law protects, in addition to the interests of the state, especially the interests of the Bulgarian patient, that the composition of this council could be complemented and we will submit our concrete proposals. Second, to which attention has also been paid by some of the professional organisations, § 43 establishes one period for analysis which is too extended. He's about six months old. It must be reconsidered in all the control logistics that is carried out by this electronic system, which the Ministry and the Drug Executive Agency claim will be put into action, how will this system be made alive? Next, there are a number of inaccuracies between 46 and 52 paragraphs. Some of them we took the liberty of mentioning in the Commission meeting. When using drugs containing drugs in clinical trials, the list of healthcare establishments has not been properly completed by the importer and should be reconsidered. Accordingly, we will make our proposals. Furthermore, I allow myself to share that in § 55 proposed by the honourable importers, the notion of palatial use is absolutely inappropriate, since this is the case and this was the heart idea of the Ministry's team and of the importers, people who do not have access to new medicinal molecules available in the European Union, respectively, to obtain such an opportunity. Palatial treatment is applied to patients who are terminal and who are not familiar with this term, I will allow myself to clarify it. It is applied to patients who are terminal and it does not matter for their forecast in life. While it is quite different here, and the European Union directive has been translated completely inept, unprofessionally and should be corrected. There are many more remarks, but I can congratulate the importers for making a serious attempt. Let's see if this experience will, of course, be crowned with success. With the adjustments that we will propose to the esteemed audience between first and second readings, together with the procedural proposal to extend the deadline, we will try to actually participate in the solutions of this so important problem for the country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u96	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines to Professor Mihailov's statement? I don't see any requests. Any other speeches? Here you are, Dr. Jaffer, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I, too, would like to welcome the government for the proposed amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. It took you four years to get to some proposals that we made in 2013. This is still a success, but you also have records, because the last time for the moratorium on your medicines it took you four months, that is, you walked much faster this time. The proposed texts are almost identical to those we once proposed with colleague Emil Raynov, and you rejected. After all, a little flashback. In 2007, the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine was adopted. In 2009 it was proposed and accepted the reference of the prices of the drugs to refer to other European countries. 2009 " 2010" appears the phenomenon of "parallel export" due to the reference, which previously receives a legislative expression. In November 2013 changes were introduced concerning parallel exports to Bulgaria, 2014 there was a veto of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria " Rosen Plevneliev" in relation to these texts and there was a cancellation of one of the texts by the Constitutional Court. In public relations, there are objective processes that are true and exist, whether the legislator has arranged them in legislation or not, and this cannot be changed. In 2013, we attempted to find a solution and regulation of some of the objective processes called This is, in principle, a legitimate business absolutely regulated in the European Union, because the European Union is an area of free movement for people, goods and services. We proposed a notification regime to allow the competent institutions to monitor the process, specifically the Drug Executive Agency, because then the data showed that a phenomenon was emerging that was damaging Bulgarian citizens. We thought that no commercial interest could be placed above the interest and right of access of Bulgarian citizens to treatment. There is no way to justify institutions refusing to take action in this regard. Nevertheless, we heard speeches in the Chamber at the time. These are quotes from the stenograms, former Minister of Health, then a member of the parliament, said: "In no case are they for the benefit of the business. The bill will confuse the drug market further. Another Member of Parliament from GERB says: "In this amendment there is lobbyism. And we continue: This will make it difficult for the free movement of capital within the European Union. "It is said that then parallel exports to Bulgaria are estimated at 85 million that this cannot cause a shortage of medicines and that this is not the reason. It is said: In my opinion, every export has a positive impact on the Bulgarian trade balance and this is the most important, otherwise it will be absorbed. Once again, I would like to say that parallel exports and imports within the European Union are interconnected processes. 85 million were the scale of this process then, now estimated at 400 million. Once again it was claimed that this is a normal market deviation due to poorly planned deliveries of producers, that parallel exports is not some major reason for withdrawal and division of products from Bulgaria and so on and so on and that this bill will have a negative impact. In this sense, again, I would like to say that, even then, and now we will support the proposed changes, because we are principled in our position, even though we were then ruling, and now we are opposition. I think this should be the position of all parliamentary groups when it comes to problems which are identified as very serious problems and which are in the interest of the Bulgarian patient. In this sense, Minister, we welcome your efforts to submit this bill. It is good that it is not offered through MPs, as there is practice, because this shows the responsibility of the state and the institutions. We are convinced that the interest of Bulgarian citizens who are waiting for their life support, and in many cases their lack causes life-threatening situations, is much more important than the interest of any player in the trade market and producer. Although all methods were used at the time, including by referral of the Constitutional Court to normal practice, a requirement for veto of the President, we will not take such action because it is in the interest of the Bulgarian patients to accept these changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u98	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Are there any lines? I can't see. Dr. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to congratulate this team of the Ministry of Health for being able to prepare within a short time the final form of this legislative proposal, because it is true that several teams have previously prepared the texts that have carried out a notification procedure, but public relations have required that this legislative solution be proposed in a short time, which is a response to the problem of deficit of life-saving medicines, which has, in the years, achieved dimensions that threaten the security of Bulgarian citizens. In this bill, in terms of the subject, there are three new points: the possibility of introducing compassionate use under the European regulation, regulating measures to monitor medicinal products and limiting their exports if necessary, and the third aspect is with regard to the introduction of the European regulation to optimize clinical trial processes. In my speech, I will focus mainly on the measures taken with regard to the changes relating to the export of medicinal products, as there are many points in these provisions that, in the second vote of the Bill, together with the Ministry of Health and together with the other parliamentary groups, we should redefine, rethink and refine, because we want to obtain a legislative product to make the process controllable. In no case do we want the texts to set provisions that are relatively clumsy, insufficiently accurate and sometimes subject to ambiguous interpretation. First of all, I would like to express my observations and objections as to whether it is necessary to set up another Council in the case of an Expert Council of the Drug Executive Agency, which to some extent duplicates the legally regulated functions of the Drug Executive Agency. I believe that when the Draft is intended to create an information system that quite transparently and specifically monitors the movement of medicinal products, such an expert council would rather create an additional administrative burden and make the process difficult. I believe that the Drug Executive Agency has sufficient capacity on the basis of its legal commitments and on the basis of the existence of this information system to monitor and control the parallel distribution process. Some of the proposed provisions of the Bill also create an additional administrative burden for economic operators, and the reasons for the bill do not make it clear how this will improve the control over exports of medicinal products and medical supplies to the country as a whole. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the submission of information under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 10 it would be appropriate to provide for an electronic process. By analogy of the Order for art. 207, para. 1, t. 15 It is not clear the motivation for the holders of marketing authorisations to submit information on a paper-based basis and for the holders of wholesale marketing licences to submit the information by electronic means. I believe that any legislative solution must create a level playing field between economic operators both in terms of their rights and in terms of their obligations. With regard to the proposed provisions for art. 217b and 217c I would like to point out that the systematic place of the provisions establishing a list of medicinal products for which exports may be restricted is in art. 217b, and the procedure for notification and ruling by the IAL is in art. 217c. In order to achieve transparency and objectivity, provision must be made for the list to be able to be drawn up or supplemented and based on written signals received in the EAL by the circles entities that can transmit signals. All participants in the drug supply and drug system should be included because the dynamics of the pharmaceutical market are too high and the time limits for updating the list and excluding medicinal products from the restrictive list should perhaps be reconsidered and shortened. The Bill proposes the establishment of a list of observed medicinal products and a list of medicinal products whose exports may be limited by not being very clear what the presence of two lists requires. The texts of the provisions concerning the two lists are relatively vague, which in turn would make their application difficult by the Drug Executive Agency and their implementation by economic operators. I believe that drawing up a list of observed medicinal products creates an additional administrative burden without a clear benefit, because inclusion in the list of products exported before the previous year does not bring added value to combating the shortage of medicines at this time. With art. 232a The requirement to submit an alert to the Drug Executive Agency shall be introduced if within two days a wholesaler fails to deliver the requested medicinal products from a pharmacy. It should be borne in mind that the pharmaceutical market is quite dynamic and the inability to deliver can be the result of other circumstances, including not dependent on the trader himself. I have concerns that the proposed provisions can create the conditions for incorrect pharmacies to force distributors and make deliveries of medicines which, unfortunately, have the opportunity to be exported, given the currently ineffective measures to combat the so-called reverse distribution. In this way regulation could create conditions for market redistribution towards the grey sector. The administrative capacity of the Drug Executive Agency must also be taken into account to what extent it will be able to carry out timely and correctly the checks provided for by the Law. Last but not least, legal definitions of lack and shortage are quite common. They do not give clarity in what order the lack or shortage is established. Before the second vote, the texts of the proposed provisions should be refined in order to ensure the correct implementation of the bill. The administration is also worthy of what is proposed by § 65 to build a specialized electronic system for collecting and analysing information about the absence and shortage of medicinal products. The need to establish an information system and in this segment of the healthcare system has been demonstrated. It will create conditions for good control and an opportunity to overcome deficits, which are the main objective of the proposed legislative changes. Here again, the exact location of the creation of such an information system in the body of the Law must be refined. Once again, I think that between first and second readings we will have the opportunity to refine the texts in question and to accurately define the necessity, possibility and content of such a system that is to be built. In conclusion, I would say that GERB's parliamentary group will support legislative changes and we will fully comply with the proposal of colleagues for a maximum extension of the period between first and second reading so that the most precise legislative form can be found to solve the problem of deficit of lifesaving medicinal products, which is the result of the development of parallel distribution in recent years and which will benefit the entire Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u100	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I have listened carefully to your speech and more in the presentation of these to the different parliamentary groups, it is evident that there are many things that need to be done. I allow myself to take a cue to you, knowing your well-meaning, but to say that if the Drug Executive Agency could have done this job for so many years, so that we do not get to the sad facts that this is being exported by the Prosecutor General of Bulgaria to closed meetings of Parliament in separate committees, the scandalous facts about re-exporting, then this Executive Medicines Agency would have done its job and now would not have to take such urgent and timely measures by the importers to resolve this problem or at least for trying to solve this problem. I think it is quite clear to the two of us how enormous interests are behind this import, and I am very afraid that the many opinions that have been expressed in the Commission, which also show concrete financial interests, in the end, do not get so that we create a premature child, which instead of making the problem of uncontrolled exports resolved, turns out to be another blow in the empty space. Therefore, our proposal will be tabled shortly after the first vote of the Law, for the maximum extension of the deadline for the imports, which will be between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u102	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u103	Dear Professor Mihailov, I said we would support your proposal. I'm ready with the procedure, but if you insist on being first, I'll let you go. I hope you'll support the bill. I can also tell you the specific procedure, because in my work as President of the Committee on Health, I have wanted to be absolutely precise, to comply with all the rules that allow for a legislative product to come out, maximum in the interests of the philosophy that we have bet at first reading. The Drug Executive Agency could at this stage control the process within the limits of the powers conferred on them by the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. It is precisely because these limitation powers are insufficient that this legislative change is necessary. In this sense, I believe that this will enable the Executive Agency to maximise its capacity and respond to all the interests that, as you yourself have highlighted and which you very well know, are extremely serious in the drug trade sector and the drug market.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u104	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Dear colleagues, it's 11:30. There are at least two other Members of Parliament to participate in the debate, so we will continue with them after the break. I would like to make the following announcement: an exhibition dedicated to the case of the Apostle of Bulgarian Freedom Vasil Levski will be opened in the northern lobby. The illustrations show the portraits of Vasil Levski, photos of associates and companions. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening at exactly 11:30. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u105	We are continuing the debate. The People's Representative Popovski is listed here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support this bill at first reading, and the idea is really this body, the Expert Council of the Drug Executive Agency, to take on these functions very quickly, which are assigned to it in the control of parallel exports and control of drug prices. As an example to the general audience, I give my colleague from Vidin Rosen Zhivkov, who said that a drug... without quoting it in Bulgaria one course of treatment costs 600 BGN, from Romania is bought for 150 BGN. A more obvious example than this one, I don't know if I can give. We also stick to the idea of a maximum length of time until second reading, because we will reserve the right to some proposals for second reading. Again, we have high hopes of regulating this market. All I recall is that nearly 30% of the NHIF's budget is spent on medicines of which 300 million is oncolleges. The expert council is very important. Four departments are present in it. The Health Insurance Fund, the Drug Executive Agency, the Ministry of Health and the Pricing and Reimbursement Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? There are no lines. The next entry for speech is the People's Representative Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As has already become clear, we support the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and because of the texts which create the terms and procedure for implementing the Regulation on the treatment with a medicinal product for compassionate use and the Regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, as was all very correctly presented by Dr. Jafer, and I would also like to mention and would be correct, and Professor Mihailov. We also support the bill in the part concerning the regulation of measures to monitor medicinal products and limit exports if necessary. This is another attempt at legal regulation of these measures, and I hope this time, once they are adopted and effective, that we really succeed in achieving those objectives that we are setting at this stage because we know the experience of both the Constitutional Court and the practices and the approach that we have had in the near past. We hope that, I would like to stress here, the planned specialized electronic system for collecting and analysing information about the lack and shortage of medicinal products in the country, to be built within the specified deadlines, and not like the other projects for electronic systems in the Ministry of Health, that is to say, the activation does not start to be delayed in time, because this has been observed since 2001. There is already a decision of the National Assembly and we hope that electronic healthcare will be introduced in time. In relation to the rules on parallel exports, there are several worrying points that I hope importers, experts and we will clear between first and second readings. It is noted that the controls concern only wholesalers and at the same time it appears that the marketing authorisation holders may export products produced by them without being subject to that type of control. It is also worrying that the project does not in any way affect the so-called 'practical' to buy medicinal products from pharmacies by non-patients but to buy them for trading purposes. In my opinion, without covering these two directions, the movement of medicines within and outside the country could not be really covered and the data in the specialised electronic system would not be accurate because it is publicly known that a significant proportion of these medicines are subject to re-export. In view of the reasons I have set out, we will support the Law Amendment Bill at the present time and hope that, between first and second reading, all that is the subject of attention and these remarks will be overcome by the importers with the help of experts, and by us, and to work so that these medicines that are intended for patients reach their final goal and achieve the objectives that are set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 702-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2017. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at first reading. Procedure? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! In accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 our procedural proposal is that the period between first and second readings should be as extended as possible, in view of the need to refine the incoming texts up to three weeks. Thank you. [[Heckling]] Yeah. Three weeks extended... a total of four weeks. Yeah, it'll be four weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u111	With the maximum extension under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. This ends and goes with: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE Please, Mr. Letifov, let's continue with the presentation of the texts of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u112	Under art. 51 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Halil Letifov, Nikolay Tishev and Georgi Svilenski in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 51: Art. 51. (1) The activities related to the deployment of an electronic communications network which are carried out under this law shall be: 1. withdrawal and/or suspension of communication cables, and/or installation of other elements of electronic communications networks in existing, welded or tolerated physical infrastructure within the meaning of § 21 of the Final provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area, respectively, with § 127 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area (Unified, SG No. 82...); 2. maintenance of elements and equipment of electronic communications networks. (2) In the performance of the activities under para. 1 in the event that the technical characteristics of the elements of the electronic communications network are changed, the requirements for fire safety, protection of the health and life of persons and safe operation shall be complied with.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we have made is in relation to one supposed omission of importers, and it is that in § 127 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Construction in the territory of 2015 the conditions for tolerated constructions are supplemented, which should be included in a provision of art. 51. This means constructions built until 31 March 2001 for which there are no construction papers were not eligible under the provisions which were in operation at the time they were carried out or under the provisions in force under this Law are tolerated constructions are not subject to removal or prohibition of use. Therefore, § 127 was correctly introduced, as was the Commission's adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editing of the text of art. 51, which is proposed by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u116	Under art. 52 a proposal was made by the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 52 is (3) The agreement under para. 2 is available. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have proposed the creation of a new para. 3, which concerns the previous para. 2, namely that the operators of electronic communications networks agree in advance projects made in accordance with para. 1 with network operators managing the physical infrastructure concerned. In our opinion, this agreement should be a grant, that is, free of charge. And this is one of the main objectives of the directive that we transpose into this Law, namely reducing the costs of deploying electronic communications networks. The categorical ban on the collection of any means of coordination of projects that would lead to the next reputable use of the infrastructure would be entirely in support of this objective. And we argue that network operators have sufficient experts not to hire external ones that will lead to new costs but to coordinate projects submitted by electronic communications network operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 18, against 54, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 52, which is also supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u120	Under art. 53 The Commission supports the text of the importer as in para. 2, p. 5 the words "the person" or "the person" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u121	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 53 with the correction made in the text in para. 2, p. 5 on a proposal from the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 74, none, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u122	Under art. 54 a proposal was made by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Rosen Ivanov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 54: Art. 54. (1) The operator of an electronic communications network shall send to the Single Information Point an application for registration of the network, accompanied by information on the implementation of the activities of deployment of electronic communications networks under art. 51, para. 1, t. 1, within one month of their implementation. The information shall also be sent to the mayor of the municipality whose territory the network is located. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall also apply a copy of the minutes signed by the persons referred to in Article 1. 53, para. 2. (3) The procedure for carrying out activities deployment of electronic communications networks shall end with the registration of the protocol under art. 53, para. 1 at the Single Information Point. (4) The single information point shall register electronic communications networks within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 1. (5) When within the term under para. 4 The single information point shall not register or issue an explicit refusal, the electronic communications network shall be deemed to be registered.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission in the version for art. 54. Vote 95 MPs: 80, none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u124	Under art. 55 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u125	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 55, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u126	Under art. 56 a proposal was made by the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. Article 56 is amended as follows: Art. 56. In case of damage to physical infrastructure to be removed immediately, the network operator may start the necessary repair works as soon as it informs the relevant municipal administration, owners of the affected land properties and operators of electronic communications networks, in the event of joint use of the infrastructure. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56, as in para. 2 the words "the rest of the network' shall be replaced by "the network'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we made in art. 56 aims at avoiding a mixed interpretation of the texts used. We believe that the repair activities are carried out by network operators. The owners of the infrastructure are both underground and underground physical infrastructure. So, as you can see, we've replaced underground physical infrastructure only with physical infrastructure, which means underground and underground. Where's the problem coming from? Firstly, we are doing this amendment in order to protect the rights of citizens who use electronic communications networks, respectively a signal from cable televisions. Secondly, because very often it turns out that the ERPs replace the electric poles without informing either the municipality or the state institutions or the operators of electronic communications networks, and it is so that the client is suffering, that is, the Bulgarian citizens without notification of them stop the signal for the Internet, for television, which we think is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 30, v 41, abstain 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 56 with the change presented by the President of the Commission in para. 2. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u130	Article 57 "A proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The operators of electronic communications networks shall establish and maintain, including in electronic form, the electronic communications networks, facilities and related physical infrastructure specialized maps, registers, information systems within the meaning of the Cadastral and Property Register Act. (2) The contents of the specialized cards and registers under para. 1 as well as the terms and conditions for their establishment and maintenance and the formats of electronic maintenance shall be determined by a regulation issued by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (3) For the development of specialized maps and registers of electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure of the electronic communications network operator shall be provided: 1. cadastral data from the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral; 2. specialized data from electronic communications network operators, network operators or the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, in case they are provided to the Agency by a network operator; 3. copies of the cadastral plans of underground conduits and facilities by the municipal administration and/or by offices and legal entities which store such; 4. copies of approved investment projects and executive documents for the buildings of the physical infrastructure of the operators of electronic communications networks................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (4) State bodies and bodies of the municipal administration under para. 3 provide the information under para. 3 (in Bulgarian)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is good that here, both the Commission and the Ministry have reached agreement on our proposal. Maybe the importers won't comment on how, but they missed out on al. 3, p. 2 "supplies the network operators" because art. 57 concerns the requirement that operators of electronic communications networks draw up specialized maps and in para. 3 shall be indicated by which bodies, agencies and persons they receive information from to draw up these cards. In para. 3, p. 2 writes as follows:. Specialized data from the operators of electronic communications networks... or from the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. We complement the network operators because in order for the ESM operator to draw up a specialised card as required by the Law in this Article, it must first receive information from the network operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 57. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u134	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for art. 58, 59 and 60, supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 86, against none, abstain 14. The proposals are accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u136	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61 as in para. 4 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In para 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 and 7 the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Article 61 with the changes in para. 4, 6 and 7, which are proposed by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: for 82, against none, abstain 18. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u138	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u139	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of art. 62, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 85, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u140	Article 63 supposed by Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63, para. The following amendments shall be made: i. c. 1, at the end of the sentence, after the word 2. t. Two o'clock is out. 3. t. 3 becomes t. 2, and in it at the beginning of the sentence after the preposition, the cities are added and a comma is placed, the words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Danchev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 63: Art. 63. (1) Cable electronic communications networks shall be located underground. The placement can be carried out in physical infrastructure under the conditions of joint use under the terms of this law. (2) Cable electronic communications networks may be located in the air only: 1. outside the boundaries of urbanised territories; 2. in urbanised areas with population up to 10,000 inhabitants. (3) Air deployment of cable electronic communications networks shall not be allowed in settlements of national importance, as well as in settlements or parts thereof declared as reserves of historical, archaeological, ethnographic or architectural significance. (4) The existence of the conditions under para. 2 and the absence of bans under para. 3 shall be certified to the network operator by a declaration from the operator of an electronic communications network in the application for access to and sharing of physical infrastructure with a view to air deployment of an electronic communications network and the network operator shall not be obliged to carry out a self-check. (5) The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Energy, adopt a regulation setting out: 1. the rules and regulations for the deployment, design and disassembly of electronic communications networks; 2. the rules for maintaining, operating and removing electronic communications networks on or in physical infrastructure of energy enterprises used to provide services of public interest under the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Go ahead, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u142	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure to postpone the examination of the text in art. 63, para. 1. 4 as I think a much deeper discussion is needed. There is not much of the MPs in this House, and these provisions concern a large number of people, both owners of electronic communications networks and their subscribers, in order to pass a purely formal and in-depth discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u143	Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u144	I propose that the remaining paragraphs be voted on by the end of the provision of art. 63 after para. 4, a para. 1 to para. 4 to postpone the examination and vote. [[Heckling]] Please vote separately, the consideration and voting of the texts of para. 1 to para. 4 a para. 5 to be voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u145	Thank you. Procedure? Come back, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing back to my colleague Mitev that we continue with the normal examination of the Law, as nothing requires the postponement of art. 63. Article 63 is one of many articles in this law which are key It was widely discussed at the Commission meeting at first and second readings, the opinions we received from the Ministry of Regional Development, the Communications Regulation Commission, associations, NGOs and so on. On this point, the Commission has taken a decision and there are two proposals that need to be put to the vote, so I am proposing that we proceed with its normal examination. Postponement does not decide and will not contribute anything to the improvement of the text. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u147	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Then we move on to voting on the procedural proposals. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev to postpone the vote on art. 63, para. 1 s 4 including the vote on para. 5 separately in today's session. Vote 117 MPs: 81 against 34, abstention 2. The proposal for a split vote and a postponement shall be accepted. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to clarify exactly what we are doing right now with this delay. We have a report from the Commission at second reading, there is a proposal from an importer, there is a proposal from a Member of the Commission, there is also a version of the Commission. What do we expect to do with this delay? What exactly do we think we're doing right now? Has the Commission not done its job, the MPs who are members of this Commission, slept through what it is about, or are we currently trying to blurt something out that, in the speed of passing a law, we have not paid attention to it? Please, I want you to explain from the position you are holding, what do we expect to happen with this delay? Will a new Commission be convened, which will consider this report at third reading, and what are we doing right now? I think it was unacceptable to vote on such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Procedure, Mr. Letifov? All right, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u150	Mr. Chairman, you can essentially answer Mr. Ermenkov's question exactly what we're doing here. You are presiding, but I have to tell you that colleagues of the Transport Committee are up to one hour in what is happening with this law and have done enough work in more than seven, eight, ten extraordinary meetings, extended working hours and all of them have been aware of what is happening, and will is expressed there. What will be the opinion of the parliamentary majority is another topic, but you owe respect to the members of the Transport Committee. Thank you. [[Applause and lines from DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u151	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, you have the procedure. I would like you to explain to the Members of the National Assembly, after adopting the proposal for postponement, since there is already a Commission report which has examined the Draft at second reading, has examined all the proposals of the Ministry, the CRC, the Members of the National Assembly, can proposals be made in this House after all these reports and proposals have passed through the Commission, and by which member?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u153	You can make suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u154	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Is there another procedure? Firstly, I am not the person to explain the Rules of Procedure to you, but I am simply following the Rules of Procedure at the moment. What is the point of the proposal made by the MP Mitev? Perhaps the MPs in the House have caught it, who supported the proposal. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, it allows such a procedure and we shall proceed by voting on art. 63, para. 5, as was done in the procedural proposal. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission in its version of Article. 63, para. 5. They voted 106 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u155	A proposal from Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. After art. 63 is creating a new one. art. 64, and the rest are renumbered. Art. 64 (1) Cable electronic communications networks may also be located on a low voltage grid owned by the network operator, provided that there is a physical and technical possibility and upon a reasoned request by electronic communications network operators. (2) The network operator shall provide access to an electrical network with low voltage to the operator of electronic communications networks with a written contract governing: 1. the conditions for access and/or use: a. manner of deployment, technical requirements, quality and safety requirements; b. restrictions on facilities that may be fitted; c. security measures; d. conditions for the admission of employees of the operators of electronic communications networks; e. rules on space allocation where limited; e. conditions and arrangements for the provision of instructions in the event of a technical non-compliance of electronic communications networks located on the basis of a right of access to and joint use; g. other relevant information necessary for access to and joint use of physical infrastructure. 2. deadlines for: a. response to requests for access, b. to provide access, c. for the removal of damage, d. procedures for the suspension of access; 3. Prices. (3) The network operator may give a motivated refusal of access to a low voltage grid where there is no physical and technical capability to deploy elements of the electronic communications network on it or present a risk to the security of electricity and/or health and safety power supply. (4) In the case of an emergency situation whose removal requires damage to an electronic communications network, the network operator providing a service of public interest within the meaning of the Energy Act, in whose electricity network a low voltage is located an electronic communications network, shall be entitled to proceed with the removal of the accident and shall then notify the operator of the electronic communications network within a period agreed in the contract concluded under para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? You have a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a new article. 64 of the MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs actually wants to arrange the relationship with this special member for the installation of electronic communications networks or air, more precisely on cables of electric poles, and this order to be settled explicitly. The text was not supported by the reasons that references in other articles govern these relations. But I think that this could have been refined and this article could have ordered the deployment of electronic communications networks on the power poles, because there is also the big case, which I will recall, but also concerns the deferred art. 63. In fact, the representatives of the ERPs, the energy networks and the so-called responsible, said that their networks in a large part have full volume and resources, and this will be a problem further in the deployment of electronic communications networks, but perhaps also for the provision of the electricity service. This was the idea of this article, which did not actually receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs to create a new art. 64, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 14 against 20, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64, as in para. 5 words the body under art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend the Annex to this Regulation. 6 words in accordance with para. The following points are added:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u160	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of art. 64 and the Commission's proposal for changes to para. 5 and 6 submitted by the President of the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u161	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65, as in para. 1 the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u162	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 65 with the changes proposed by the Commission in para. 1. Voted 101 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 13. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, as in para. 4 words the dispute resolution body under art. The words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 66 with the changes proposed by the Commission in the text of para. 4. They voted 102 MPs: 88, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u165	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67, as in para. 1, t. 1 the words the dispute resolution authority art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 2 The dispute resolution body under art. 81 has given.........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u166	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of art. 67 with the changes proposed by the Commission in para. 1, t. 1 and para. 1, t. 2. They voted 104 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 17. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u168	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 68, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 90, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u169	screeding of electronic communications networks and infrastructure in buildings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Section I "Physical infrastructure for the deployment of electronic communications networks in buildings'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7 and the text of the importer for the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Voted 101 MPs: 90, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u171	Under art. 69 supposed by the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 69: Art. 69. (1) The construction of physical infrastructure for the deployment of elements of electronic communications networks in a co-owned building or in common parts of a building shall be carried out on the basis of a contract in writing with the agreement of the owners holding at least one second of the property in the building and, in the case of floor property, on the basis of a decision of the General Assembly of the owners under the order of art. 17, para. 3 of the Floor Property Management Act. (2) The installation of elements of electronic communications networks for the provision of electronic communications for the inclusion of a user in a building of floor property to an existing cable electronic communications network in the building shall be carried out on request by the user to the operator of an electronic communications network without the need to conclude a contract under para. 1. (3) The removal of elements of electronic communications networks upon application for withdrawal of the consumer shall be carried out by and on behalf of the operator of electronic communications networks within one month of the termination of the contract under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u172	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 69. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u173	Under art. 70 has a proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 70: Art. 70. (1) In new buildings in ownership mode, as well as in existing buildings providing for major renovations, a built-in physical infrastructure for the deployment of high-speed networks, including to the end points of the network, shall be built. (2) The projects of new buildings shall have one or more access points.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 70. Vote 94 MPs: 84, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u176	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 71, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u177	Under art. 72 has a proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 72: Art. 72. The construction of physical infrastructure for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks in new buildings is not mandatory for: 1. single-family dwellings and villas; 2. military buildings or other buildings used for the purposes of national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u178	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 72. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u180	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 73, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u181	Section II - Access to built physical infrastructure in a building. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u182	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II and the text of the importer as art. 74 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, as in para. 1 and 2 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" and in para. 3 words the dispute resolution body under art. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend the Annex to this Regulation and to amend the Annex to this Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 75, with the changes proposed by the Commission in the text of para. 1, 2 and para. 3. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u186	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 76 and for Art. 77 which are supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 79 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u187	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Rosen Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 78: Art. 78. Where there is no physical infrastructure for high-speed communications networks in the building, the operators of electronic communications networks shall be entitled to place an end point on their network in a subscriber's premises with a minimum impact on third party property, including by reusing existing physical infrastructure in the building or by ensuring the full restoration of the property in the condition prior to the deployment of the network.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 78. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u190	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 79 and the text of the importer for art. 80 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u191	? Chapter 8? Solving disputes?? The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u192	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Eight, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u193	Under art. 81 has a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Rosen Ivanov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 81: Art. 81. (1) The Commission shall resolve disputes under this Law concerning the granting of access to and/or the sharing of physical infrastructure, including: 1. the application of access conditions and prices in accordance with that law and its implementing regulations; 2. deployment of electronic communications networks; 3. coordination of activities under Chapter Five, Section II; 4. providing information on existing physical infrastructure and planned constructions; 5. Examine the site of a specific part of physical infrastructure and provide access to physical infrastructure in a building. (2) When resolving a dispute relating to the application of conditions and prices for access to physical infrastructure which are not pre-defined by an act of a competent authority, the Commission shall verify that the conditions and/or access prices laid down by the network operator comply with the requirements of that law or its implementing regulations. (3) When resolving a dispute relating to physical infrastructure located or built for the needs of electronic communications networks, the Commission shall adopt an independent solution in accordance with the objectives of art. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications. (4) When resolving a dispute relating to physical infrastructure built for the needs of networks other than electronic communications networks, the Commission shall adopt a decision in accordance with a binding opinion of the competent authorities which have the power to regulate and control the main activity of network operators relating to public use and/or the supply of services pursuant to § 1, p. 3 points (a) and (b) of the Additional Provisions. (5) When determining compliance of access prices with the methodology under art. 3, para. 5 takes into account the possibility of the network operator to recover its costs and takes into account the impact of the requested access to its business plan, including the investments made by it. (6) In resolving a dispute concerning access to physical infrastructure of operators of electronic communications networks when examining investment, the economic viability of these investments shall be fully taken into account, given their risk profile, the timing of return on investment, the impact of the access granted to competition and, respectively, on prices and return on investment, all types of depreciation of network assets on the day of submission of the application, the economic arguments supporting investment, in particular in the physical infrastructures used to provide high-speed electronic communications services, and the opportunities for joint deployment offered to the requesting access. (7) When resolving disputes concerning the coordination of activities under Chapter Five, the Commission shall determine fair and non-discriminatory conditions in compliance with the principle of proportionality. (8) To deal with disputes under this law, the Commission shall collect fees. The amount of the fees, time limits and how they are paid shall be determined by a tariff for the fees adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Commission. (9) The fee for consideration of the dispute shall be paid by the party requesting its settlement. (10) The fee and expenses paid shall be borne by the opposing party to the dispute in accordance with the part of the request respected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u194	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text for art. 81. Vote 94 MPs: 80, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82, all over the words........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u196	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 82 with the change proposed by the Commission for the text...................................................................................................... 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u197	Under art. 83 has a proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 83: Art. 83. (1) Within the term referred to in art. 82, para. 4 or within 3 days of the removal of incompleteness or irregularities, the specialised committee shall send a copy of the request to the interested parties, giving a 7-day period of receipt to provide opinion and evidence. (2) The specialised committee shall have the right to request from an electronic communications network operator the information necessary for the settlement of the dispute within a reasonable period. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 81, para. 4 The specialised committee shall send a copy of the request and any evidence collected to the relevant competent authority for an opinion which is binding on the Commission. (4) The competent authority under para. 3 is obliged to provide a binding opinion on the implementation of art. 81, para. 5. 1. within 14 days from receipt of the request under para. 2 in the cases referred to in Article 2. 85, para. 2, p. 1; 2. within two months of receipt of the request under para. 2 in the cases referred to in Article 2. 85, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (5) In case within the term under para. 4 did not receive an opinion from the relevant competent authority, the Commission shall decide the dispute on its own on the basis of its own expertise under art. 49 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The costs of the expertise under para. 5 shall be at the expense of the relevant authority under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u198	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 83. They voted 93 MPs: 81, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u199	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, as in para. 1 and 5 words are replaced by...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 84 with the changes proposed by the Commission in para. 1 and para. 5. Vote 89 MPs: 79, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u201	Under art. 85 has a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov and Rosen Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 85: Art. 85. (1) The Commission shall examine the report under art. 84, para. 5 at its first meeting after its submission, and may: 1. to accept the results of the work of the specialized commission and to take a reasoned decision on the request under art. 82, para. 1; 2. order further action to check the factual situation, analyse it by the specialized committee and draft a new decision, setting a deadline. (2) The Commission shall adopt a reasoned decision giving binding instructions on the request or rejecting it within the time limit: 1. to two months after receipt of the request under art. 82, para. 1 respectively, from the elimination of incompleteness or irregularities for cases of: (a) coordination of Chapter Five activities; (b) provision of information on existing physical infrastructure and planned constructions; (c) on-site inspections of a specific part of physical infrastructure; (d) access to physical infrastructure in a building; 2. to four months after receipt of the request under art. 82, para. 1 from the elimination of incompleteness or irregularities, respectively, other than those referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1. 1. (3) When a decision is taken in the cases referred to in art. 81, para. 4 The Commission shall take into account the binding opinion referred to in Article 4. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the (4) The time limits under para. 2 may be extended up to two months only in exceptional circumstances. (5) The decision under para. 1, t. 1 shall be sent to interested parties within 3 days of its adoption and shall be published on the Commission's website with the exception of the information specified by the Parties for commercial secrecy. (6) The decision under para. 1, t. 1 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to the outstanding situations in this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text for art. 85. They voted 93 MPs: 78, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u203	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86, as in para. 1 and 4 words are replaced by...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u204	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 86 with changes in the text in para. 1 and 4 which are proposed by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u205	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87 as in para. 1, 5 and 6 words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u206	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 87 with the amendments to the text proposed by the Commission in para. 1, 5 and 6. 90 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u207	"Chapter 9" - Control and administrative penal provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. "Department I" "Covering." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u208	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 9a, which shall be supported by the Commission and the text on the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u209	Under art. 88 has a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov and Rosen Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The control over the implementation of the activities under this Law shall be carried out for the activities under: 1. provision of information under Chapter 3, Chapter 5, Section I and Chapter Six by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 2. providing access under Chapter 4 and Chapter 7 of Section II of the Commission; 3. Chapter 6, except for cases under point 6. 1 " of the mayors of municipalities. (2) In carrying out the control under para. 1, t. 2 The Commission shall interact with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and with the Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The terms and conditions of the interaction shall be governed by a joint instruction on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u210	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text for art. 88. Vote 95 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u211	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89, as in para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u212	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first one is the importer for art. 89 with the change in the text of para. 1 which is proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer for art. 90, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 82, no objection, abstention 9. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u213	Section II "Administrative Penal Provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u214	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which shall be supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u215	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91, as in para. 1 the words "Competent State Authority' shall be replaced by "public sector authority'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u216	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer for art. 91 with the change in the text of para. 1 which is proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer for art. 92, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93, with the words "Species Regulation."........................................................................................................................... is replaced by........................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u218	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 93 by the amendment proposed by the Commission to the text and text of the importer for art. 94, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 84, none, abstention 11. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u219	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 95: Art. 95. Operator of an electronic communications network which violates art. 57, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u220	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the text proposed by the Commission for art. 95. Vote 91 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u221	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 96: Art. 96. which does not comply with a decision of the Commission under art. 85, para. 2, shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 5000 to 50 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u222	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text for art. 96. Vote 88 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u223	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, and the words................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u224	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 97 with the change to it proposed by the Commission; and the texts of the importer for Articles 98 and 99, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u225	May I have the procedure, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u226	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u227	Article 100 "I will read it: "Operator of an electronic communications network, which deploys cable electronic communications networks in violation of the requirements of art. 63, para. 1 and 2... The lyrics of para. We've postponed them, so I'm making a procedural proposal and art. 100 to be postponed until the adoption of para. 1 "4" of art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u228	Thank you. A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Halil Letifov to postpone the debates under art. 100. Vote 96 MPs: 88, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u229	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, as in para. 1 after the word 'executive', the entry into force is added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u230	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 101, edited in para. 1 which is proposed by the Commission; and the texts of the importer for Articles 102, 103 and 104, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 17. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u231	Under art. 105 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 105: Art. 105. (1) In the event of detection of infringements under art. 91.. 104................................................................................ 89, para. 1 Employees shall draw up acts under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. (2) On the basis of the acts under para. 1 penal decrees or reasoned resolutions to terminate administrative criminal proceedings shall be issued as follows: 1. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or a person specifically authorised by him for violations under art. 91; 2. the President of the Commission or an officer expressly authorised by him for the violations of art. 92 " (96) '; 3. the mayor of the municipality or explicitly authorised by him an official for the violations of art. Ninety-seven, 103. (3) The competent authority under para. 2 or an officer expressly authorised by him shall issue penal decrees or reasoned resolutions to terminate administrative criminal proceedings for infringements under art. 104 in respect of controls carried out by him. (4) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-15.u232	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text for art. 105. Vote 98 MPs: 82, no objection, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests who caused your interest and smiles are students from the 20th school of Todor Minkov in Sofia. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] Before we enter into the additional provisions, which we will leave for the next meeting, a communication on parliamentary control for tomorrow: Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer six questions from the MPs Petar Hristov Petrov; Anton Kutev; Stanislav Vladimirov; Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Topchiev; Valentina Naydenova, Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and Anelia Klisarova. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the MPs Ivelina Vasileva, Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Valkov. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer nine questions from the MPs Simeon Simeonov; Dora Yankova; Hristo Grudev; Stefan Burgev [[two questions]] ; Lalo Kirilov; Nikolai Ivanov [[two questions]] ; and Tsvetan Topchiev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - one question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva; - a question from the MP Daniel Yordanov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - two questions from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova and Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting, there is no possibility for the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva to take part in the meeting because of a commitment to a planned meeting. That's how the messages end. Thanks for working today. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
