ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 21 to 23 February 2018: "1." Draft decision for the early release of Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, 20 February 2018 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 February 2018 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 10 November 2017. Adopted in first vote on 7 December 2017. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 11 December 2017. Adopted in first vote on 24 January 2018. 5. Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 12 September 2017. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 January 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 1 February 2018. Point 1 for Thursday 22 February 2018 7. Draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the additional expenditure/transfers on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by the Council of Ministers for the period from 10 May 2017 to 31 January 2018. Importers 8. Second vote on the bill on payment services and payment systems. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 16 October 2017. Adopted in first vote on 7 December 2017. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Importers. "Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 28 July 2017. Adopted at first vote on 12 October 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 10. Second vote on the Law amending the Law on the Film Industry. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 24 November 2017. Adopted in first vote on 25 January 2018. 11. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote the Work Programme in today's plenary session. Vote 191 MPs: 121, against 59, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I strongly object to point 1 of the weekly programme, namely the release of Mr. Zablyanov from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, because the draft decision proposed by you is in sharp, indistinguishing contradiction with the Rules of the National Assembly, which has the power of law and also with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why we propose that this point be dismissed. Because there are none of the grounds described in art. 5, para. 1 et c. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, namely objective inability to fulfil obligations. Alternatives are also given here, either systematically overshadowing the rights or systematic failure to fulfil the obligations within their competence. First of all, in order for systemicity to be present, at least three cases of exceeding the rights of the Vice-President of the National Assembly are needed and none are available. The cases described in the framed reasoning in no way constitute an excess of Mr. Zablyanov's rights in his capacity as Vice-President in view of his competence. The rights of the Vice-President of the National Assembly are fully described in art. 8, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, and these are: The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President and carry out the activities assigned by him. The rights and duties of the Vice-Presidents shall not exceed those of the President of the National Assembly, and they shall be listed in full in art. 8 of the Rules of Procedure and nowhere is it described as an obligation, any Member of the National Assembly, who was Vice-President, to have no right to differ from those of the President of the National Assembly or of the ruling coalition. More than that. Your motives also contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where in art. 11, para. 1 and para. 2 It is clearly and categorically written that the political life in the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the principles of political pluralism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. No political party or ideology can be declared or declared state, which is what you do in your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u3	What's the procedure, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u4	The procedure is motivating her right now. I said it in the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u5	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u6	I end up literally in seconds. Thirdly, there is an internal contradiction between the reason you have described in the Draft Resolution and the reasons for the systematic exercise of rights, because you in fact did not describe the excess of rights, but the failure in your view of the obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u7	Tell me the procedure, Mr. Popov, otherwise I'll take it as a declaration on behalf of a group. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u8	I therefore appeal to all Members of Parliament and to you, Madam President, not to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda and to vote against. I'm making a suggestion. 1 of the program drop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the proposed procedure by Mr Popov. 1 of today's accepted program drop. Vote 193 MPs: 92 against 89, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 14 to 20 February 2018: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. A bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. A bill to supplement the Anti-Corruption Act and to take away illegally acquired property. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers. "Daniel Kirilov and Christian Mitev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. Draft decision for the early release of Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Messages: Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 75, para. 3 and para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform you that in promulgations in the Official Journal, No. 15 of 2018, Act on markets in financial instruments in § 42 has been corrected for a factual error as follows: 2 text: Read the package leaflet before use. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), The error stems from the correction made prior to the promulgation of the wrong numbering at the points of § 13, which was not respectively reflected in § 42. On the basis of art. 75, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the amendment was also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The National Statistical Institute received information on the main results of the labour force monitoring in the fourth quarter of 2017; Gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRE-FREE THE VALLERY MICHEW JABBLYANOV FROM A POSITIVE DEPARTMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Who's gonna brief us on the motives? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We have submitted a draft decision for the early release of Mr. Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Our motives for this proposal, as you have already heard, art. 5, para. 1, t. 2, a proposal second of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely because of the systematic excess of its rights as Vice-President of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the reasons we have justified, with a view to proving systemicity, the following three major violations. The first infringement was from 18 January 2018, when we discussed the ratification of the Treaty of Good Neighborhood with the Republic of Macedonia. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u11	Colleagues, please be quiet! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You will have the opportunity to speak, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u12	Mr. Zablyanov, claiming to be speaking in a personal capacity, said from the National Assembly's stand and qualified the Treaty as auctioning from the lowest sample, prematureness and contraption. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u13	Please, guys! You'll have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u14	With this, we believe that colleague Jablyanov reduced the ten-year efforts of the two countries to reach an agreement on this treaty. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Second, based on the duties of each Member of the National Assembly in art. 155, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to respect the authority of the National Assembly, Mr. Zablyanov during plenary session, on 1 February 2018, rudely hinders order in the Chamber [[speaks and shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] and honoring the victims of the communist regime and the victims of the revival process.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u15	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u16	With these actions Mr. Zablyanov demonstrated complete disrespect for Bulgarian parliamentaryism to the Bulgarian people. Thirdly, we believe that in addition to the duties that Mr. Zablyanov has as a regular MP, he has both representative and institutional functions as Vice-President of the National Assembly. In this regard, it is obliged to validate the national and political authority of the National Assembly as a legislative body. In this situation, we were severely outraged by the claim [[speaks and shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] in the declaration against the holding of Lukovmarsh, the authorship of this declaration proved to be related to Mr. Zablyanov. The declaration states that the People's Court is a necessary and inevitable wartime justice. We believe that the statement concerns the assessment of our democratic society and the values of the conduct and consequences of the People's Court. This discredits the Bulgarian Parliament and affects its authority. If Mr. Zablyanov wishes to make such extreme qualifications, he should, as a representative of 80% of the national representation, have the opportunity to do them as a regular MP, but as representing the institution of the Bulgarian Parliament, we believe that he should not do so, which is why we have imported the following. Project! DECISION for the early release of Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Valeri Mirchev from the post Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Let me first welcome to the House of Guests from the Union of Repressed! Please accept the tributes of the parliamentary group. [[Applause from DPS.]] And to express regret if we had known that we would have such honored guests, we would have invited the hundreds of repressed by the communist regime by the ranks of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, exiled to camps and prisons, beaten and deported. Let's assume that their representatives are here as their associates in the fight against communism. [[Applause from DPS.]] Madam President, the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not take part in this debate for the following reasons. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u19	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u20	I don't mind, Madam President, but if the Rules require it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u21	Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u22	We believe, first of all, that there are no legal arguments for the resigned request for the decision to remove from the vice-presidential post of Vice-President Valeri Zablyanov. I'll look at the three motives one by one. In his personal capacity Mr. Jablyanov has expressed his arguments against the Treaty of Good Neighborhood with the Republic of Macedonia. Honorable colleagues, I particularly appeal to lawyers: do you forget that the people's representative has functional immunity, which means that he is not responsible for the opinions he has expressed on this platform? Yes, you are! This immunity is therefore in order to be able to express its views whether or not others agree with them. So this argument is dismissed for constitutional reasons. Second of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zablyanov's request whether or not we agree with him is another matter. We did not agree, but to make a request from Parliament's stand regarding the tribute to the victims of the communist regime to include others is his right. This is not a violation of the Rules in any way. If we go from a formal point of view to violating the Rules of Procedure, this happens in every plenary session. I can remind you of many such cases. That's no reason to ask for the resignation. Thirdly, comes the moral motive that Mr. Valeri Zablyanov in a declaration against the conduct of Lukovmarsh expressed his own personal opinion on the People's Court. Here is the place to remind that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms condemns the People's Court and has been consistent in this position throughout the years of transition. And today we state categorically that we cannot agree with Valeri Zablyanov's personal assessment. I am saying that this is a personal assessment because his party has a designated document which distinguishes itself from this act of the People's Court. There is! There is, and she was quoted by this tribune very soon. If this has caused your outrage, frankly, because the People's Court is a crime against the people, a crime against the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, and with victims, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms agree and therefore have a negative, reprehensible attitude towards this act. Let me ask: what was the revival process? [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u23	Please, guys! Colleagues, you have the opportunity to speak out of the stands! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u24	What was the revival process that ended with the deportation of several hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens of Turkish ethnic origin, which is ethnic cleansing, and is a crime against humanity under international law, without limitation, honorary colleagues?! About this crime, which is of the same nature, of the same communist regime... [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u25	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u26	GERB - You have a double standard. Absolutely double standard! The President of the Commission, notice, in terms of human rights and creeds of this tribune, said the following words on the occasion of the revival process: There were no such people who went out to protest. I don't know what happened. The victims of the revival process are not victims of an accident, honourable colleagues from GERB, as well as the victims of the National Court are not victims, because this was the way the post-war times required. They are victims of crimes, crimes against humanity! When we asked for Mr. Velchev's resignation, you didn't show the morale you want to show today. [[Applause from DPS.]] When we signaled you by leaving our two members of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, you also did not pay enough attention to this gesture. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that GERB does not have the moral basis to want this resignation today, except that you do not have a legal basis. For this reason, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not participate in this farce, which, by the way, has another purpose. Not to mention Lukovmarsh, for example, because the reason for the words said is Loukovmarsh. A senior representative of GERB a few days ago distinguished himself in the media and said: "GERB has always opposed the conduct of Lukovmarsh." Do you want us to play you a videotape from the session of the municipal council on the occasion of Lukovmarsh, where the municipal councilors of GERB protect Lukovmarsh? Would you like to hear it? [[Applause from DPS]] . Yeah, yeah, yeah, we got it! So Lukovmarsh is not empathetic to fascism................................... and the regime, and everything else is! I advise you to clear your double standard because people watch and can give an assessment of this! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? I can't see. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving plenary.]] Statements? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement. Colleagues, please! Mr. Shopov, I'm making a note of your art. 56, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly for the expression of an inappropriate expression several times. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov. Time won't be the time of the group. You have ten minutes for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades, socialists and anti-fascists! I regret to note that 28 years of the democratic government of Bulgaria is a one-slept, missed period for the Bulgarian office, a period in which the Bulgarian right is ready at any time to fascinate, but never to democratize; a period for the Bulgarian right in which it never understood what democracy is. I would deeply regret the fact that tens and hundreds of visits by MPs to the heads of the parliamentary group at the temple of world democracy... the United States did not help you understand what this constitutional government of the people is. You didn't understand the principles. You didn't understand why you went there. The United States, apart from capitalism, is a country of freedom where individual rights of speech, religious religion, protection of citizens by the institutions, including with personal weapons, are brought into worship. You, honourable Members, have not reached the heart of democracy in tens of years of already democratic training in the cell schools of liberal institutes. Unfortunately, this should have been reminded of you by our colleagues just now. I'm not gonna talk about your cognitive deficits any further. I'm going to say a few words on both the specific case and on the rights you're taking from the law, despite the law. The motives presented by Mr. Kirilov, signed by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, are a model of political arbitrariness, factual weakness and political helplessness. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u29	Mr. Jablyanov, please don't use insulting expressions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u30	For the first time, I see reasons in which no member of the National Assembly has been designated to deal with and to treat the removal of the President and Vice-Presidents from office. Not a single member! It's only referred to as art. 155, which has nothing to do with today's discussion and the draft decision. Legal, political and other helplessness, ladies and gentlemen of the right! A few questions about motives one by one. The first motive is that every MP and every Bulgarian citizen can have an opinion and speak on the contracts signed by the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian government. You do not understand democracy and, in particular, its institutional framework, because you understand the collective leadership of the National Assembly as a single political body. That's not a Politburo in the back! [[According to the Bank of the Presidency.]] That's not the Central Committee back there! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That back there is not the supreme authority of the National Socialist Party, where we all have to salute, because a lady wears some symbols on her own. It's a democratic body. We are representatives of our parties, if you do not know it yet. I am a representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and with its platform and programme I am standing there, not with yours. Is that clear? [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you can't account for it. There's no way you can account for me! Basic principles. The question of February 1st, I find it ridiculous. Funny! I called on all victims of political violence in Bulgaria to be honored, which is a fact which cannot be denied even by people who have become familiar with the history of the introduction in the sixth grade textbook. He can't be denied! The third motive is ridiculous! Do you want me to tell you that with similar motives, even the People's Court didn't work? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Take a look at the sentence, I don't know who can give birth to it, what this human intellect is: How does it connect, respectable lawyers? How does it connect? On the wire? [[Applause and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Tragedy, dear colleagues. A few words about the People's Court and whether there was fascism in Bulgaria. Bogdan Filov, 13 December 1941: In my last speech to you on 19 November, I stated that Bulgaria, after joining the Trilateral Pact, stands firm and steadfast today on the side of the Axis forces, their allies, confessing Nazism. [[suspenseful and long applause in the hall.]] It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. Again, Bogdan Filov: The Lord of the National Assembly is known to all the great speech that Germany's leader Adolf Hitler gave on the 11th of this month in the Reichstag in Berlin. Also known is the speech of the leader of fascist Italy Benito Mussolini, pronounced the same day in Rome. These speeches show that the North American states have attacked the Axis forces. Under these conditions, we decided to break diplomatic relations with the United States and declare a state of war with this country as well as with England. [[Beeping from the President.]] Ten minutes, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u31	No, no, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u32	Sorry, I'm looking at the seventh one, that's why. This is about the political responsibility of the government of Bogdan Filov and what a wonderful archeologist he was. Let's go. The President of the National Assembly, who says: "After so many sacrifices and efforts, thanks to the high gesture of the great leader of the great Reich and the genius leader of the Italian people, as well as their troops and peoples, our people's dream is realized. What do you have to say about that? These are the protocols of our National Assembly! Which country was Bulgaria on, honourable Members? On the side of democracy? This is your idea of democracy. And now I'm going to tell you the other idea that you keep waving, and you wrote it down in the name of the party. However, the Lord of Parliament, in this case it is not only about a contractual obligation, says Bogdan Filov, but also about an expression of that solidarity that must be laid at the heart of relations between the countries in a new Europe. There is nothing more to be added, honourable Members. Nothing more. Regarding who are those who stood before the People's Court, as it was about this institution, I will not list the international documents with which it was created. It was established by Decree-Law of 30 September 1944, but it was established...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u33	Against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u34	In relation to art. 37 of the Tarnovo Constitution. Because you know a lot. [[Radio.]] About a few sentences that circulate around the public space and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u35	You have one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u36	From the time of the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u37	From the time of the band, please. Thank you. ...who have become the cause of an undemocratic, terrifying discussion with attempts at media and other excesses in recent weeks. Personal slander, outrageous behavior, violation of any political and social ethics that is written on your account, honourable gentlemen MPs from GERB, on your thick account. And the invoice will be sent to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u38	Turn on group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u39	In these conditions, there is no doubt that after the fall of the German Balkan fortress it is about Bulgaria, Russia will play an important role in the institutions of the united nations to find an acceptable solution to the Bulgarian problem. This does not mean that Bulgaria will be Bolshevised or that it will be allowed to avoid the retribution that her behaviour in this war makes inevitable and necessary. But if she will live in peace with her neighbors in the future, those elements, which for years dictated the reckless policy of communicating with German imperialism, must be removed once and for all. The German royal court, the military clique and the corrupt political gang that shape his entourage. The publication was published by the newspaper "The Times" on 3 March 1944. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear MPs from the right, political education is mandatory at least for the MPs. [[Applause from Bravo and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this case, we are talking about nothing but a quote from the newspaper The Times. The quote can be checked. I am sorry for this rage that has been poured out this week, and I want to move on to the essence of our work and our discussion. The question of historical truth will not be resolved, and we do not hide illusions in this regard. Illusions should not be fed. The positions are clear, the truth is clear. Victims are a fact. Monuments, half destroyed in the oblivion of time, reunited the fighters against fascism in Bulgaria on 2 June. That's what our entire party knows. Not for any other reason, but because under these monuments there are bones of people killed without law, decapitated, burned, cut by the fascist executioners of Bulgaria. And it is against these executioners that this sentence is in line with the tens, hundreds and thousands of sentences handed down in Europe by the courts of France, over 10,000 sentences, by the courts organised by Britain, even in Italy, in Trieste against the supreme command of the German army, against war criminals, against political thugs, against those who tried to behead freedom and democracy in Europe, which you are doing today to defend. You're not defending anything! You violate the Constitution, you violate the laws, you directly govern the will of the people, and you will pay for it! [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We, as MPs of modern Bulgaria, of modern Bulgaria, end up with history. History is a basis for our present consciousness to make us who we are, but it cannot be a starting point for our actions today in everyday life and in the future. And here we're solidarity, I think, all of us. I would like to say that the assessment of Lukovmarsh for the first time is also an assessment of the government, albeit cowardly expressed by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Policy Georg Georgiev, cowardly expressed in order not to have to express it the Prime Minister, the indecency of the mayor of Sofia and, of course, the loud absence of the President of the National Assembly, who cannot find strength and say that Lukovmarsh is a Nazi event, as the Ambassador of the United States in Sofia said. [[Applause from Bravo and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You cannot find strength because until yesterday you supported it because you continue to support it and because you have a hypocritical attitude towards democratic and anti-fascist forces in Europe, including your partners, because you are not a centre-right party, but are hesitant between democracy and authoritarianism. And while you're hesitating, you'll find out where your historic place is. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In Bulgaria, we really need common assessments of history, we need democratic consensus, we need a future perspective. I regret that this occasion was given today with the clumsy request for resignation. This is not about the vice-presidential seat. That's not what this is about at all. Here is the big question for Bulgarian democracy, honourable Members, because the People's Court was not established in Bulgaria after World War II, it is an authentic idea of Alexander Stamboliiski's agricultural government, which introduced a draft Law on the National Court immediately after World War I. Note the two projects from completely different parties have been submitted after the two wars, but with the same motives. [[GERB lines.]] With the same motive! The motives are the threat of the Bulgarian state, material destruction and deprivation, which the Bulgarian people tolerate, the accession of the Bulgarian state to regimes that have led to misery for huge masses of people on the European continent. Under this law Alexander Stamboliyski took away Ferdinand's properties, which abdicates and leaves Bulgaria. The democratic consensus that you love to talk about here someone mentioned it in some declaration that bears the same marks as the motives, it was the same, but I do not have time to deal with it. The democratic consensus is based on pluralism of opinions, honourable Members. There is no other consensus! Pluralism of opinion is at the heart of democracy. The other is a torch march. That's two different things. Marching with torches is not just an attempt to illuminate the Sofia streets, if you do not know. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is an external manifestation of the ideas of Nazism and fascism, for which Sofia becomes an attractive center. And your responsibility as a ruling party, which is showing off with the notion of......................... should be in this direction.... to stop this disgrace, disgrace for Bulgaria! And if you think this disgrace has nothing to do with that disgrace and those events, that means you don't know historical dialectics. These are the same events. It's the same march as those in Nuremberg, the same march, with the same ideas, with the same people, and that thing you had to condemn to be Democrats. You're afraid! You are afraid to go against the Nazis and modern Nazis and fascists. And do you know why you're afraid? Because of your guilty historical conscience, because you're forging history. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . Your guilty historical conscience, because you are not a 10-year-old party, but are carriers of some of the most reactionary ideas on the European continent. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]] And because someone mentioned that the elite of Bulgaria had been killed, surely there are mistakes in every justice, there are mistakes that border on crimes, there are unholy witnesses, there are all those things that give reason to talk today about the memory of the victims, undeservedly condemned by the People's Court. [[Noise and lines.]] There are definitely cases like this. There's certainly been complaints about retrials, and I've met one of them. I am familiar with the motives of the court when they have confirmed or rejected these complaints, so there is nothing to discuss in this regard. There can be no ideological assessments here. There is a political and legal assessment here. And because we want to live in peace, we want to live in a civilized society, we want to confess democracy, we want to confess the peaceful alternatives in changing government in Bulgaria, we are led by the understanding that being an opposition is not a disadvantage because the opposition can correct the governance. We are guided by the understanding that we should never, under any conditions, return to these years, to these times, and therefore in the early 1990s, BSP put the national reconciliation as a major task before the Bulgarian society. Because today we also share views on the need for national reconciliation and of common respect, pay attention to the victims of political violence, not a separate attitude towards the victims of political violence. Because it will not be possible to achieve that covenant goal, which was recorded in our declaration, the democratic consensus. It can't be achieved! And finally a few words, because we mentioned the elite. There is no doubt about it: professors, doctors, people with intellectual capacity, with merit to various spheres and areas of the Bulgarian state, of our statehood, of law, of theory, of archaeology. Who can deny that? Any prejudiced person would deny it, but I can't find a clue in that direction, I can't even find a trace of appreciation in what's being attributed to me in any form. I want to explain to you and, I think, this is the most important: the basis of these assessments should be the cool distance of time, the pursuit of historical truth, individual integrity and human objectivity. That's basically it. Everything else is our prejudices, passions and ambitions, perhaps, daily political ambitions, my respect for the audience. About the dead, about the dead. In these events, no one has ever considered the value of human life from the point of view of its individual qualities, whether he is a scientist or illiterate, whether he is rich or poor. Human life is precious in itself. Human life is a natural or divine creation, or a given, as religions and atheists believe. He is outside of us, and therefore we have no right to take him away. This is a fundamental postulate, a fundamental postulate of Christian civilization. And we have to step on it to reach the consensus between us. Political differences will remain, I have no illusions, my colleagues, Bulgaria has no illusions But the consensus on the value of human life, of what people have built, of civilization, of the consensus against war, against darkness, against the destruction of institutions, of the people-built consensus must sustain us, ladies and gentlemen, dear comrades and comrades. This is the consensus that should cement us as the supreme democratic body of our republic, which, as it finds, unfortunately, the President is not yet pure and holy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And I would like to say a few words about Tenyo Stoilov, secretary of the District Committee of the Party in Stara Zagora, shot in front of 150 people, arrested communists at the party club. After Tenyo Stoilov's murder, the year is 23rd, I'm not talking about the later 23rd, after the murder of Tenyo Stoilov, the commander of the military compound, excuse me, the company of murderers, has told the other executioners [[noise and lines]] : Did you know that tonight we killed one of the smartest people in Bulgaria?............................................... Yes, they killed Tenyo Stoilov, PhD in Law, PhD in Philosophy, PhD in Pedagogy, Polyglot, a connoisseur in five foreign languages, personally known by Vladimir Lenin, by Plehanov, by Vera Zasulic, by Axl Roth and all political emigration in Switzerland. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u40	Colleagues, please. Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Mihov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u41	Maybe ask the coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u42	Please, Mr. Mihov, take your place. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u43	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u44	Please, Mr. Mihov, take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u45	This is about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u46	You'll have a chance to say a line, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u47	...because we have heard of me absurd anti-democratic reasoning: that someone has the right to be tried or not to be tried, and was an elite or not an elite. This is the Bulgarian people and the crimes against them cannot have a statute of limitations, regardless of who and when they were committed. And to this assessment given by the BSP at the beginning of the changes in official documents of the party I do not know any other party in Bulgaria that has managed to apologize for having done something to the Bulgarian people. Thirty years of democratic rule! Are you infallible, ladies and gentlemen?! Are you infallible?! For ten years you've managed how an apology on the smallest occasion has not been served. To say: "Dear Bulgarian citizens, our fellow citizens, we were wrong. That management decision was wrong. It shouldn't have been like this, excuse me on behalf of the party, and it shouldn't have been done on behalf of the party. Finally, before the vote, I would like to address the other political parties in the National Assembly, I say the other parties, without my colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, whose arguments for absence I respect, but cannot be absent when democracy is to be defended, and then to say that you love her very much. [[GERB's line.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u48	Can you punish Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u49	Please, guys! Mr. Toshev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u50	I'm gonna want him punished for insulting...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u51	Please, Mr. Toshev! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u52	...for a personal insult. No, I can't keep quiet...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u53	What insult did Mr. Toshev do to you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u54	Please punish him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u55	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u56	Can you increase the time of the group? Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u57	Extend group time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u58	Mr. Toshev or get up from a place to apologize, which I will accept, or, if he likes, leave the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u59	Continue the statement, I'll decide who leaves the room. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u60	The bad news is, Madam President, your judgment is false.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u61	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u62	Thank you. In closing, the Constitution of our State of 1991 has given me the right to give it to me, not Mr. President, not Mrs. President, not any of us to say what I think of one or another international treaty. The Constitution gives me the right to say my personal opinion about what Bulgarian politics should look like, to express the opinion of our tens, hundreds of thousands, million voters of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who have their own political views, which you must admit, however you do not want it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They will defend them: in elections, with demonstrations, with demonstrations and with everything our party does and will continue to do for freedom in Bulgaria. I call on colleagues from the other groups, if they want to preserve their own freedom, their own freedom, because tomorrow they will be forced to recite, recite the words of the officers and the Fuhrer if he appears! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Reply.]] Here you go, Mr. Mihov. [[Extreme applauses from BSP for Bulgaria "The MPs from the parliamentary group are up.]] Wait for the coworkers to calm down and then you'll make a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zablyanov, I do not agree with many of your historical references, arguments and generally logically built historical structure, because it is logical, but not historical. And I will express my disagreement with just one simple question: it is rhetorical, I do not want an answer from you. You mentioned the murder of Tenyo Stoilov in Stara Zagora. Who killed him? Who was a member of the so-called "Convention of the Military Union" that carried out the coup? And the answer is very simple: he is the Prime Minister of Bulgaria on 9 September, signed the act for the People's Court, the hero of the Soviet Union Kimon Georgiev. And on your conscience, it remains why on 9 September your ancestors made an alliance with the murderers of September. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! I admire your ability for the same fact, when you are ruling, to praise it for example, and when you are opposition, to express the exact opposite opinion with very strong arguments, with a strong alumus and so on. Mr. Zablyanov, I will object to one of the things you mentioned in your speech because it is extremely incorrect, namely that President Radev mentioned somewhere, I have not heard that the covenants for a pure and holy republic of Levski and Botev are not yet part of our daily lives. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to make you a historical reference to the summer of 2016, when we founded the Civil Movement for a pure and holy republic, because we just said that these covenants... [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Eee! " and "Aaaaaa! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u67	Colleagues, please be quiet! Go on, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u68	These covenants of our patriots, of our liberators, are not part of our daily lives, because you have all practiced both during communism and during the time of supposedly democracy, in quite other ideals you have sworn clearly. So we're not going to let you try to build the image of a new saint, because that's clearly not the case. When we said that the ideals of Levski, Botev, Rakovski are not part of our daily lives, President Radev, current President Radev, then General Radev, was not among the civil society to come out and defend these interests of the Bulgarian people. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u69	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u70	So take care of the story! Thank you. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u71	Thank you. Is there gonna be a third line? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u72	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor, I didn't mean to do the duplicate, but because there is a specific question and it concerns the overall understanding, and I was talking about this particular understanding. This one was ours, and this one was yours! That was the content of my speech. There can't be that kind of thinking! I know, Professor Mihov, that you're a historian, but somehow that's not the way science should think. I address myself as a man of science. He can't think like that! So I want to say a few simple things. At that time the Prime Minister of Bulgaria was Alexander Tsankov, who was called, pay attention to the Bulgarian people Tsankov. Is there any other prime minister who just, without anything, wins that name? Is that what the people call someone by some nickname? It's not just like that. It's Tsankov's bloodlock. This is another period of Bulgaria, which we should not remember either. We must not remember the terror of both the white man and the red man. There is no difference here, we all agree that this should not, should not be repeated at all. And that's why it was our appeal to the Prime Minister, not a statement, as you wrote in the motives! You should at least read what we wrote, fellow Members! There he writes: "Appel to the Prime Minister" to distinguish himself from the fascist coven in Sofia. This is exactly what, honourable Members, is the content of our future, or should it be, of our future Bulgarian democracy, of our unification in the name of the good of Bulgarian citizens! Not where Kimon Georgiev was on his day, how many people gathered in his office, how they voted! Let's take a look at this right here! Yeah, this one's one of those, this one's one of those, all right, give me the recapitulation. This one's guilty! This thinking just needs to be done. Our appeal was to modern events. We didn't do anything else. And this is a party document, and you were doing this act, evaluating a party document. For a bigger parliamentary embarrassment than yours, I can't think of anything. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Here you go, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u74	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is for Mrs. Karayancheva. In no way do I want to hear about cognitive deficits from this tribune. That's my remark to her. Mr. Hristov, now to you: although it is a violation of the Rules, I will say two sentences in substance. The People's Court is a front for terrorism and political purge. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is an instrument of corruption and terror, gentlemen of the BSP, it is not a court not only because it does not exist in the political... [[Strong noise and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u76	What kind of procedure is this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u77	I'm making a note, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u78	...the rules of the system of Bulgaria. Because the judges, the indictees, are ordered by the Communist Party to condemn...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u80	...and what kind of sentence he gets. [[Noise, booing and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is for young people from Sofia University who are in the hall today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u81	What kind of procedure is this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u82	I'm making a remark, as you can see. [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u83	This isn't even a quasi-court, gentlemen. I will therefore support Mr. Zablyanov's resignation, not for other reasons, however much we say that we are breaking the Rules. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u84	Say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a personal explanation procedure because I was named by Mr. Zablyanov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u87	Why are you cursing? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u88	I don't swear... [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u89	Huh?! You don't swear?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u90	...and I didn't swear. If it's a curse, I apologize. I want to tell you why I said that. My father is not someone from somewhere we have read in the archives of history. My father has served 22 months in Belene, convicted by the grandfather or father, or the uncle of Zablyanov and those like you. He entered, he was at the Construction Institute, he studied here, he was a wrestler at Yunak. One hundred and six kilos goes in, in 22 months it comes out 67 kilos. It turns out that Zablyanov's grandfather was a poor man and to take the horses, sheep and oxen... Six oxen, four horses and 62 sheep sold my grandfather to buy my father from Belene to come out alive and have me now in this world. So listen carefully: if what we have heard for 25 minutes here is not a communist tyranny and is not a Bolshevization of BSP, and Zablyanov is not a tree communist chapter. [[Applause from GERB]] Zablyanov is not...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u91	Mr. Toshev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u92	...woody communist chapter, well, I apologize. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u93	Thanks for the apology. Come on in as long as it's the way it is. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Chairman, you did not lead during this time, but I still have the right to express in the manner of conduct, because there have been talk here for quite some time against the law. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Don't read!"]] It's against the law. I will now read them: Law on the declaration of the communist regime in Bulgaria for criminal (prom., SG No. 37 of 5 May 2000), Art. 2: The leadership and the leading actors in the Bulgarian Communist Party are responsible for: 1. deliberate and deliberate destruction of the traditional values of European civilization; 2. conscious violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms; 3. unprecedented quarrel with the MPs of the twenty-fifth National Assembly and all innocents convicted by the so-called People's Court [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The procedure is that there were illegal things being said here. The People's Court was declared fair here! Here it was announced that a communist regime [[crowd cheering]] who is absolutely intolerant, unmade...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u95	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u96	I go on: the state's economic and economic decline. The violation and cancellation of traditional principles and the right to property and so on. You can read it. He's three members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u97	In the manner of conduct! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u98	Three members. You read them. Then in this case you won't say those things that 20 minutes really our ears were...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u99	Speak up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u100	To me, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u101	...attacked with absolute lies and, I'd say, with absolute carelessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u102	Come out, let's make a line for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u103	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u104	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, but especially honourable Bulgarian people! I regret that today you are witnessing what shows that the Bulgarian political class is immature to assess its history objectively and wisely and to give you perspective, to answer your real problems, to help you solve them and to give you hope. I'm sorry the government gave you that tone and we did this to you today! And for this reason, I will try on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria to bring you back to the modern principles of the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, what every one of you, respected Bulgarian citizens, has. The reason for this conversation is the request for resignation of Vice-President Valeri Zablyanov from the MPs of GERB and "United Patriarchs." I'll start with the legal side, the legal side, because it's easier. The Rules of the National Assembly, which is a law in the Republic of Bulgaria, has fully determined in what cases the term of office of the Vice-President may be terminated early. First of all, on his application, there is no such thing. Secondly, on a written proposal of at least one third of all Members of the National Assembly, where there is an objective impossibility of fulfilling the obligations, there is no such proposal. Valeri Zablyanov objectively performs his duties. Either systematically exceeds his rights or systematically fails to perform his duties. Neither. That is, the request for early termination of the term of office is illegal because it does not meet the terms of the Rules of Procedure declared by the Constitutional Court as a law in the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, I'm going to focus on the motives one by one. Mr. Zablyanov, according to the government, has exceeded his rights by expressing himself in a personal capacity, I quote against the treaty with Macedonia and thus damaging the country's interests. Let's see what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 39: Everyone has the right to express an opinion and to distribute it by word, written or oral, by sound, image, or otherwise. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 67: The People's Representatives shall act on the basis of the Constitution and the laws in accordance with their consciences and convictions. The request for early release of Valeri Jablyanov is unconstitutional. Moreover, it says here that with the statement, which is personal, Valerie has damaged the country's interests. I have the following question, honourable GERB: you have decent people, of course, and in GERB there are many decent and smart people who publicly disagree with the so-called Istanbul Convention. Would you like to compare the two acts? The Treaty of Good Neighborhood with Macedonia is a bilateral international treaty, and the Istanbul Convention is a multilateral one. Valeri Zablyanov in his personal capacity says that he would not support the bilateral treaty with Macedonia, but Georgi Markov in his personal capacity says: "I am against neoliberal contraptions and idiocy, now a committee will come to our country, who will go to schools and kindergartens and will preach the gender ideology. Respect for Georgi Markov for this position, but are there double standards here? A member of parliament from BSP for Bulgaria is expressing personal disagreement with an international treaty. A member of the ruling majority expresses personal disagreement with an international treaty. In the first case, this is grounds for resignation. In the second one, no. You are not only manifesting double standards, you are thus violating fundamental constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u105	But for Glauchev you could?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u106	The second motive "Valery Zhablyanov hindered the order in the hall and the tribute to the victims of the communist regime and the revival process. Dear importers of these motives, you are lying! Valerie Jablyanov stood upright and kept the silence required in this one minute of silence. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u107	There's a tape!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u108	All he did was offer this respect to the victims of communism to add respect to the victims of fascism. What do you think: Was there fascism in Bulgaria, were there victims of fascism? Perhaps you do not think so, because yesterday on the streets of Sofia, Lukovmarsh was sharing and we saw our Bulgarian children, here and now, confess dangerous ideas. And we have not heard from you, the Bulgarian MPs from the ruling majority, reprimand, discontent or indignation, we have not heard from the Prime Minister, we have not heard the President of the National Assembly. Not wanting to condemn these fascist manifestations, you turned the entire discussion over this sentence to the People's Court. I come from here to the third motive. The definition given in this declaration concerns not only the political assessment of our democratic society, but also discredits the institution of the Bulgarian Parliament and directly affects its authority. Dear colleagues, this was a declaration on behalf of a party with which Valeri Zablyanov did not engage the National Assembly. We can argue for a long time about historical facts, but there are a few that are irresistible. Article 5 of the Paris Peace Treaty, on which the Decree-Law on the Establishment of the People's Court was established, the Agreement of the Four Great Powers, the United States, the United Kingdom, France and the USSR. [[Noise and lines.]] Moreover, the Declaration of the United Nations General Assembly of 11 December 1946, the 1949 Geneva Convention. "All international acts that we cannot help but acknowledge. There's something else. In 1991, the Bulgarian Socialist Party was the only one to follow the following at its senior forum: By accepting the political responsibility of its predecessor for her mistakes and distortions, BSP apologized to all citizens of the country, including party members, who during that period were illegal, unjustly or unjustly repressed or humiliated. What other party in Bulgaria did this? Only a worthy party of strong people can take such a responsibility, seek reconciliation and unity based on the objective assessment of history, but with a view to the future. Further on, these motives are really funny, but why do you really want the resignation? Firstly, because you are running away from real problems and because behind this distorted conversation about the past, behind this aggression, you are hiding the inability to solve today's demographic crisis, health problems, education problems, growing inequalities. This is an escape from reality for which you have no solution. Secondly, this is revenge... simple revenge for the resignation of Mr. Glauchev. That's when we realized that you didn't realize the mistake you made back then. Then he resigned so that the House would not be empty when Mr Tajani visited, not because he violated a fundamental democratic right to freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, pluralism and the rule of law. Even then, we knew that this act was going to happen again, and here it is, it's happening today. This is revenge for that resignation that was deserved. [[noise and lines]] for breach of fundamental principles of the Constitution and the rule of law. Thirdly, the reason for these actions today is the management model you have been imposing for years. Yesterday Mr. Tsvetanov said on a show that the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament should share the general opinion of the Presidency. Oh, yeah? And because Valerie Jablyanov had a different opinion, this was grounds for resignation. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] We have a question: what general opinion did Parliament Speaker Tsveta Karayancheva express when he engaged the National Assembly institution and expressed the opinion of all of us, without asking us that the low authority of the National Assembly is due to President Radev's attacks on the institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u109	Why did the President attack the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u110	What normal person believes that the low authority of parliament, which has been such for 20 years, is because President Radev has given us a poor assessment? Who authorized the President of Parliament to engage the entire institution? GERB and Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Then why is she the chairman? Shouldn't the Presidency have a common opinion on all matters? So when Valerie has a personal opinion or a party opinion, that's grounds for his resignation. When the highest, albeit first, between equals, the speaker of parliament engages the Parliament institution with a position without asking us, it stands here! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are those double standards? This is a model, the model Tsvetanovstyna, in which sentences are issued without trial against doctors, against opposition, against political opponents. Because of this model, we have been sentenced seven times in Strasbourg and the Bulgarian state, each of you, dear Bulgarian citizens, with the little money you have, you pay for the disability of this model, which removes, insults, fires, crushes and scares every person. This is today's model of management of GERB. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Anyone who has a different opinion, who is a free man and has the will to express that different opinion, will be subjected to the most severe pressure. Not only because of Valeri Zablyanov, not because of the position, not because of the BSP, but because of the hundreds of Bulgarian citizens who are in this state, in a controlled state, but not by outsiders, controlled and taken over by the ruling majority, which holds in fear and repression their people. Because of these people, if you vote today the resignation of Valeri Zablyanov, you are going to the Constitutional Court. If you vote today on Valeri Zablyanov's resignation, you will go to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and you will receive the eighth sentence. [[GERB noise and lines]] , European already, which will show you that Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria................................................................................................... [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , destruction of every inadequacy, repression of everyone different. The Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria will strongly oppose all legal and political measures! It is our primary task to protect the parliamentary republic, to protect the separation of authorities, to protect the rule of law, the freedom of citizens, to be free people, to think differently and to speak differently without fearing it. Today the Parliamentary Republic is not only atrophied. [[GERB lines.]] President Radev is right. Today you are making a new contribution to this atrophy. You are turning the Bulgarian Parliament into an emergency court. Today, this is a tribunal, an extraordinary courthouse against the inquisitors. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will not be part of extraordinary courts in Bulgaria. Therefore, we will not participate in this discussion, we will only come back for the vote, but we will never contribute. [[noise and lines]] for the establishment of extraordinary courts in Bulgaria. We will use all legal and constitutional norms. We will not propose another Vice-President of the National Assembly. Our vice-president is Valerie Jablyanov. We are waiting for his just recovery of this post from the Bulgarian and European courts and the fair lesson to you that above you [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , above us, above all stands the Constitution of the State, the rule of law, the division of authorities and the freedom of man! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u111	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. There's a personal explanation for Mr. Glauchev, first, then Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you are, Mr. Glauchev, for a personal explanation. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable leaving Democrats from BSP, heirs of the Bulgarian Communist Party! I wasn't going to say anything, but have some shame, Mrs. Ninova. How can you compare yourself, suspended from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to illegally issued 9155 sentences? You're actually saying this is a rematch. Yeah, there's a rematch. We want to rehabilitate the people who have been illegally convicted. This is the rematch in this case. Illegally, I repeat, contrary to the Tarnovo Constitution, issued 9155 sentences, 2730 deaths and 1305 life imprisonment. Have a little humility and shame, Mrs. Ninova. On a very high pedestal, you have gained self-confidence since when your group stood behind you, which means that the entire party is behind all that you have done, and you have violated the law of the National Assembly, which is the Rules, and you are comparing illegally issued sentences. What more can we say? Self-esteem is clear. There was a hero from the Leipzig Process who had just stood there, inspired by his teacher and chief Georgi Dimitrov, looked like him. Now we have to ask: in what language [[Applause from GERB]] You BSP talk to your horses? We can all think of one. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u114	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u115	There will be no personal explanation. I'm not going to make a personal explanation either, because I don't have anyone else to address it to. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u116	The carpenters of parliament will feel better tomorrow they won't have a job because the gentlemen, the comrades, the comrades left before they hear any answer. I think the empty room would understand me much better, and the empty chairs than they would if they were on top of them. [[Applause from GERB.]] I had prepared a completely different statement, but from everything we've heard here, I've asked myself a few answers to questions that sounded from this tribune, and I'm starting in a row, as they were asked. BSP had apologized. These people on both sides of the Chamber expected that on 10 November there would be no repainting, and the Bulgarian Communist Party would fall to its knees and beg forgiveness for its crimes by the Bulgarian people. [[Applause from GERB.]] Was this done? It wasn't done! Moreover, from this tribune or from these towers a prominent politician, a MP, Mrs. Bokova's infamous brother, Philip Bokov, said: "We accept the wines with the appetizers. Now that's their insolent and vulgar excuse. For Lukovmarsh they blame GERB. GERB, in all the years since he was in politics, has stated that he is a right-wing European democratic conservative party and condemns the three great evils of the 20th century "fasism, national socialism and communism." This was stated in the last days by the Prime Minister, the mayor of Sofia, by Mr. Tsvetanov, was stated by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Notice why this Nazi march was carried out? Those people who pretend to be MPs understand the laws of the country. Why didn't they read the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations and find out that for such a procession the regime is not authorised but is not notified and no one can stop it. I ask: neither the Prime Minister nor the Mayor, nor anyone can stop this procession when it is declared in the proper order! How long has Lukovmarsh been going on? Since 2003 The King rules, rules the Communists with the Triple Coalition, rules Oresharski. Well, why didn't they forbid it when they're against Lukovmarsh? They didn't forbid it because they can't ban it now. Look, almost GERB and the United Patriarchs tolerate Nazism. See how false news is born without stating the legal grounds! A pro-Soviet and pro-communist speech was given here from exactly those years when communism was planted here. They accused Bulgarian politicians almost in love with Nazi Germany! The greatest love for Nazi Germany after 23 September 1939, when Moscow concluded the Molotov Pact, Ribbentrop, has a secret agreement on how it will be distributed after the war Europe, among the most enthusiastic supporters of this pact is the Bulgarian Communist Party. Until 1941, she didn't utter a word against Nazi Germany. He expects that union to stand up and put them in power after the war in the redistribution of Europe, because otherwise they can never take democratic power. If they could, they would have taken her, not with blood, violence, weapons and the terrorist guerrilla movement. Revenge for Mr. Glauchev. The two acts are incompatible with Mr. Glavatchev's and Zablyanov's! Mr. Glavchev showed extremely high state-of-the-art behaviour, with an extreme sense of national responsibility, putting Bulgaria's priorities and agenda above its personal interests and priorities. [[Applause from GERB.]] He made a great sacrifice and showed what it was like to be a Democrat politician! [[Extreme applause from GERB.]] We're witnessing that no one asked for his resignation. The man understood Bulgaria's interest, felt it in himself and made his act. How will you compare this act to the act of cynical disgrace that you brought from this tribune on February 1st, Zablyanov?! These are incompatible acts regarding the morality of individual politicians! Where there is morality, it manifests itself. Where there isn't, here, the hall is empty! [[Applause from GERB.]] You're Democrats, why don't you hear the other opinion?! [[Extreme applause from GERB.]] Ms. Nino quoted European treaties, the Paris Treaty and others. Well, it happened two years after these people were killed and buried in the Central Sofia cemetery. It's like that foreign trading company that was privatized, which she says, "It's been checked." It's been checked, but before you privatize it, not after privatization. It's the same thing. [[Applause from GERB.]] And now, specifically for the resignation. I have to say my personal motives why I would support her. In less than a month, Mr. Zablyanov... First of all, bow before the repressed communist regime and their successors and the young people behind them to hear what it was like! [[Applause from GERB.]] Madam President?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u117	Yeah, sure. [[All MPs from GERB and the United Patriarchs are standing up and applauding the participants of the balcony successors of the people killed by the National Court.]] Thanks, guys. Go on, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u118	Mr. Zablyanov, in less than a month you three times allowed yourself to desecrate both the national memory and the Bulgarian history and the feelings and memory of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians carrying in their hearts for 70 years the pain of the crimes of the communist regime a regime forcefully imposed in the land of the bayonets of the Soviet army invader. On January 18th, when the whole of Bulgaria had held its breath for the long-awaited return on both sides of the border with the Macedonian people, you alone in this room read an evil declaration that almost accused the government and parliament of national betrayal with the ratification of this desirable treaty! Mr. Zablyanov, a national betrayal on this matter was committed, but not on 18 January 2018, but in December 1946, when the process of violent Macedonianisation in Bulgaria began with the census of the population in the Pirin region. Then 310,000 people are forced to sign up as Macedonians. Of them, the pressure can't withstand 270 grand. Forty thousand refuse, but are interned in concentration camps and few of them return. This was carried out by decision of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... People admit what they were doing. With your statement, Mr. Zablyanov, we are aware that you have only tried to serve Russian interests, because the only ones who have no interest in the Balkans being united and being part of a united Europe are Russia. But the Balkans will be united, they will be part of a united Europe and Russia here will finally have no influence! He won't be able to wipe out the fates of future generations! On 1 February this year, in the most cynical way you, Mr. Zablyanov, defiled the memory of those killed not only by the People's Court, but also of all those worthy Bulgarians, those victims, martyrs of communist terror, starting immediately from 9 September 1944 and reaching the last of the 40 concentration camps in the country! These are the victims you In a statement of BSP 13 days later you became a reputable author of a treacherous text, aiming with unprecedented insolence to exonerate the proceeds of the People's Court. I am obliged to remind you that according to Bulgarian historians and lawyers in Bulgaria there has never been fascism, because before 9 September the Director of the Institute for Historical Studies at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Mr. Vachkov said that there was never fascism, because in theory there is no merger of a party with the state, as is then in communism. The People's Court is absolutely illegal because it contradicts the then-acting Tarnovo Constitution! Notice: the sentences are issued in the name of His Majesty, the Bulgarian king, and he is king according to the Tarnovo Constitution! There is a text in it that says you can't create extraordinary courts in wartime! This is for the People's Court. And I ask Mr. Zablyanov: and the other tens, tens and thousands killed without trial and judgment on which court do you charge them, Mr. Zablyanov, on the hammer, on the sickle or on the five-pointer?! Nuremberg sued 22 Nazi criminals, issued 11 death sentences, and each of them had the right to file for parole! Notice the scale! We are talking about a pure and holy republic here the question has been raised, and the President has also asked it. Dear friends, can you imagine the Bulgarian President asking the question: is the Republic clean and holy today?! You can't, you shouldn't, and you shouldn't have a politician in a place like this who doesn't have the holy republic in his heart! She was worn by Levski, Botev, Stambolov. All who dreamed of getting to this time today. If you doubt that our republic is not holy and you don't feel holy in your heart, you have no place in this chair! Another question is whether she's clean. His question here is very legitimate. Well, how can it be clean?! You saw what they did in the People's Court before him and after him. The colleague was right when she said it was the elimination of the opposition, of those who could then challenge their authority. They're clearing their accounts. The Dimitrov Constitution, in Article 1 of it, lays down 50 years of uncontrollable power for 20% of the people who are actually the communist nomenclature. The other 80%, not to mention what you called them a prominent socialist, dogs ate them! Two national catastrophes, two betrayals, to give up our country for the 16th Republic! The third bankruptcy came in 1989. Instead of falling, asking for forgiveness, what are they doing?! They're robbing people's money through foreign trading companies. Ask Mrs. Ninova, she knows better how these things work! [[Applause from GERB.]] It becomes the bank's bankruptcy, they rob the people's savings. They broke down businesses with draining. Six years later, criminal privatization began. Ninety percent of the assets and capital created by this people today are actually under their control. When in 2009 they expected that they would take the power and legitimize everything and power and economic power, this bad GERB appeared. Where did this bad GERB come from, so you messed up their accounts?! So bad is this GERB, so does not apologize for these 9 years, so corrupt there was a vote of no confidence for corruption. What does this GERB do that three times in a row the people choose only GERB?! Well, imagine what they are, that no one will choose them! [[Applause from GERB.]] The people know that when communists come to power, the state absolutely burns. Thirty years, 20 of which, with clear and secret governments, rule, that's why we're in this mess! I won't dwell on the other things I've noted. It was no coincidence in 1998 that the People's Court was annulled as illegal, the victims were rehabilitated. In 2000, this regime was declared criminal. In 2011, the bad GERB made the date 1 February to be noted in memory of the victims of the People's Court, in fact of the communist regime. I think it is high time to adopt a law in which the preaching of communism and its protection, as did Comrade Zablyanov here, must be criminalized! To the glory of the communist regime, court and prison, as in Germany, for the one who praised the Nazi regime! Because the communist regime is the upper stage of fascism, of Nazism, it is the peak form of an insolent regime. I'm gonna jump over a few more things. I will tell him why I will personally vote with full conviction on this resignation. Because I believe and will quote part of it that it is an inevitable and necessary peaceful democratic act against self-forgotten politicians! Because it is high time for communist cynicism to come down from the stands of the National Assembly! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Any lines to the statement? Mr. Glauchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u120	Madam President, honourable Members! There weren't many euphemisms in your speech, Mr. Gurnevsky, but you missed one crucial point. You said to ask Mrs. Ninova about the period of privatization, but she's gone, it's not gonna happen. [[Parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Volya are present in the hall.]] In fact, perhaps this is what parliament would have looked like if I hadn't resigned. Let the ladies and gentlemen of the BSP return! Do you have anything specific to say about the privatisation of foreign trade companies, since Mrs. Nino is not here to say? I expected her to come out for a personal explanation. She's gone. [[Laughter, excitement, single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u121	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Is there a second line? I can't see. Mr. Gurnevsky for the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u122	Thank you. Mr. Glauchev, did you personally feel that in this room the air suddenly became very clean?! [[Laughter, excitement, single applause.]] In this room, the air will be clean when there is no communist in it! [[Laughter, excitement, single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the United Patriarchs will support the decision for early release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Jablyanov. All the time the activity of the 44th National Assembly the opposition in the face of BSP and DPS created and provoked scandals, but not once took responsibility for its actions. The MPs of BSP repeatedly make scandalous statements, but never took responsibility for their words. In their ranks there continues to be a man investigated by the prosecution for the ugliest crime against democracy, namely buying votes. In the group of BSP continues to be a person who allowed himself to insult the entire Bulgarian people or at least 80% of it! Today we are faced with the case of a provocative statement by the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Parliament on the occasion of his disparaging attitude towards the victims of the People's Court and the Communist regime. Let us not forget, however, other statements that protect Serbian and cominternovski these but not Bulgarian, namely its sharp opposition to the Treaty of Friendship with Macedonia, a treaty that is the result of the ten-year efforts of Bulgarian diplomacy, a treaty that changes the centuries-old foreign policy in brother Macedonia, which gives a green light for Macedonia's integration into the European family. We have not forgotten Mr. Zablyanov's position regarding the initiative of President Glavatchev to change the name of Dimitrovgrad in the Republic of Serbia. An initiative of the local Bulgarian population, which wants the name of Tsaribrod to be finally returned because they do not want their city to be named after Georgi Dimitrov, a man who is one of the reasons why our Homeland is to be torn apart. Today we are faced with a decision with which Mr. Zablyanov will take responsibility for his actions and speeches because Mr. Zablyanov is a MP and, of course, has the right to an opinion. But he is also Vice-President of the National Assembly and from the height of his position he should have been more careful in his speeches, as he is called to be a uniter in the Bulgarian Parliament rather than a divider and defender of foreign influence and propaganda. Since BSP is not distinguished from Jablyanov's statements, it means that in fact BSP considers it a norm for the execution of political killings, it is solidarity with comintern rhetoric and Bolshevik techniques. That is why today's vote is also a signal to BSP colleagues to revise their attitude towards the black moments of our history. Thank you. [[Applause from the... United patriots.............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! We came today to the National Assembly without being convinced of either position. We expected to hear the debate to make our decision. On the one hand, the reasons of the importers were written and explained. On the other hand, we should have heard the counter-those. What, though, are we witnessing? The self-named positions of the BSP and the DPS in this way do not give us the opportunity to call ourselves the position of the DPS, say: "In principle, we are for the DSP, but because the previous mandate is as far as I understand we put the same proposal, but you did not accept it, we will not participate in the debates. And the BSP says: "We are, in principle, for there to be no such creeds, especially for people who are in the Presidency of the National Assembly, but because it is our comrade, we are against it, but if it were for another comrade, we would be for the National Assembly. I don't want to imagine what would have happened to me if I had done this thing. During a announced one-minute silence for the victims of the terror of various communist regimes, of the killings, to come out and scream out of the National Assembly's stands as a sign of any disrespect to these victims, I do not want to imagine if I had done such a thing, what would have happened to me. Therefore, in listening to the debates, we are absolutely clear that the position for... is the right one at this time and we will support the Vice-President's resignation. Thank you. [[(Applause by.. ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any lines to Mr. Mareshki's statement? I can't see. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the representatives of the BSP are absent because they have always defended the principle of hearing different opinions. I'd like to say a few words that I think are important. The President, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, are the people who represent Parliament as a guide, and as has been said before, they should be the unifiers and should be those who contribute to better micro-climate in the Bulgarian Parliament. When they are imported divisively, when they come out on the stand of the Bulgarian Parliament and as vice-president is spoken in this way, I believe that, first of all, this destroys the authority of the institution and does not contribute in any way to the more fruitful work of the Bulgarian MEP. Here, however, I would like to express an opinion. It was very insulting on the part of Mr. Zablyanov behaved and spoke as if he were nominated President of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] This speech is unacceptable to be delivered here, it is permissible to be pronounced on a captivity of BSP. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I am convinced that Mr. Zablyanov's speech today is a request for the chair at BSP. [[Radio and applause by GERB and OP.]] I can say this: Mr. Zablyanov, when you took the floor and came out here on the stand, you should first apologize to those people who are present today in the Chamber, from the Union of Repressed. Because when I spoke in the towers before I entered today's meeting, an elderly woman said, "Mr. Tsvetanov, I was a child when I was sent to camp. Why is this man acting like this? Why does this man not honor the memory of those who died and the repressed by the Communist regime? Here, this is the sickest thing we can find today from Mr. Zablyanov's statement. He behaved very edgyly, with a very high voice or, as some Members say, arrogantly. I think we should all be a lot more humble today. Today especially BSP has had to be much more humble, because the only thing that BSP wants to do in the past few months is to provoke problems, scandals, so that we can really deviate from the only possible path of the European, to have a strategic partnership with countries that can actually contribute to greater security and stability in the Balkans, and just when the objectives of the European Union, the objectives of the United States and the developed democratic community of the Western Balkans want one thing: it wants the European perspective for the Western Balkans, it wants security and calm. But BSP took advantage of this situation to provoke a constant diversion from the agenda of society. And when we have the Presidency, when we have success in this Presidency, of course the only way to neglect these successes is when you provoke scandals. BSP wants fellow MPs to return to power with a caretaker government if they go to early parliamentary elections. As Mr. Gurnevsky said, they do not have the opportunity to democratically win elections and broadcast their prime minister and cabinet because we are all witnesses to what they have done and continue to do and as behaviour. And because they gave many moral assessments to fellow MPs today, I did not take advantage of my right to a personal explanation because today's topic is not about what Tsvetanov was doing. I am proud that when I was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, we were able to return over one million units of State Security files to the Bureau of Records. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I know that BSP will never forgive me for this. It is they who want the closure of the Commission because they want to bring us back to Bolshevism, they want to lead us away from the European path, they want us to really neglect the story from 1945 to 1989. We will not allow it because we are a democratic party, we have a democratically formed parliamentary majority, which is a function of the voters of Bulgaria. Here I would also like to thank the United Patriarchs for being together in the goals that we have set and what we can realize from our four-year term programme. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Everyone, when meeting with the voters, does not speak aggressively and provocatively, but is interested in what are the steps and policies the government can make, for increasing incomes, for reducing unemployment, for the development of the regions, so that we have this economic growth that gives a better perspective and the opportunity to return the proven Bulgarian citizens who left our country because of all that we did not do at the beginning of democracy, when we did not reveal the files, we did not tell the truth. Here, today, of course, the only representatives of the centre-right in the political space is GERB. I would like to thank all Bulgarian citizens who supported GERB in the parliamentary elections because we defend democratic values and profess European values for a strong and united Europe. This BSP won't forgive us, so they'll be aggressive. The problem, however, is that BSP has found its true spokesperson for all that they want to do. Unfortunately, the President of the country has become a real spokesperson of the BSP and this coordination of mutual actions undermines the prestige of the presidential institution and, of course, creates an opportunity for opposition in society. Members of Parliament who are present today in the Chamber because I do not know whether colleagues who are not present in the Chamber will be able to understand what this is about: let us not pay attention to provocative actions, let us be clear that Bulgaria is above everything and today's resignation, which we will vote on, will be for the better of democracy, for the better of parliamentaryism. In no way will we limit the personal messages that the Member of the National Assembly will make, but he will do them in his capacity as MP, and he will not make them as Vice-President of the Bulgarian Parliament. Comparing with what they did to fellow Member Glauchev, I can also express my full support for my colleague Glauchev and say that what he did [[Applause from GERB and OP]] It was dignified because he put Bulgaria in front of the personal insult that his colleagues from BSP gave him. Thank you, colleague Glauchev, and I assure you that what you have done is far more valuable to democracy than the behaviour of fellow Member Zablyanov today in plenary. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] As for the repressed: you have my full support and we will always be with you. We know that what we have missed all these years, at the beginning of democracy, is that we have not read the historical facts page of what the communist regime has done. Thank you for being here, because this is extremely important to us. Thank you for this declaration, which you sent to the President of the Bulgarian Parliament and to the President of the Commission on Complaints and Petitions. And here I want only two sentences to share about the speculative behaviour today of the Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and, of course, the speakers on the left: as for Lukovmarsh, for all the years the local authorities have limited the possibility to carry out this march. We have always condemned the conduct of this march, and here I can say that I fully agree with Mr. Gurnevsky. According to the legislation in Bulgaria, when there is such a procession or similar gathering, it is of a noticeable nature to the mayor of the capital. And since there were again statements that there were also municipal councillors who spoke at the Municipal Council, I can clearly state that on no occasion, for any reason, the municipal councilors of the Political Party GERB have not spoken in support of Lukovmarsh. And here I can say that the request for Lukovmarsh was made only a week ago. What Sofia Municipality has done has forbidden the conduct of Lukovmarsh, which has been appealed in court and the Bulgarian court has ruled against the decision of the mayor of Sofia Municipality. That is the truth, and let us consider it. Here I would like to congratulate the mayor of Sofia, Yordanka Fandakova, the whole democratic public, all these ambassadors and embassies who also condemned Lukovmarsh. We should all contribute to changing the behavior and attitude towards Lukovmarsh to those who support it. We need to be very clear about this, and we did it. The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs knows that he is the representative approved by the Bulgarian government in connection with the contact point he has in the European Council so that we can actually fight anti-Semitism. This can only happen when we have institutional representation in a high position, such as there is Deputy Minister Georg Georgiev. I also thank my fellow MPs, who last week condemned the holding of Lukovmarsh from the parliamentary platform. Colleagues, I think we've lost a lot of valuable time since today's parliamentary day. Let us vote on the resignation of colleague Jablyanov. The BSP is entitled to broadcast a new Vice-President. They made it clear they wouldn't. I urge them to do so. The only request is not to make a proposal for Ivo Hristov, which I think can not be accepted because of the insults he inflicted on the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] It is unacceptable for the President of the country to say that the Bulgarian Parliament is a notary! If Mrs. Cornelia Nino perceives this function, yes, indeed Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva should not have defended the Bulgarian Parliament. But it defended the Bulgarian Parliament, the MPs and all Bulgarian citizens who voted for the current Forty-fourth Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. A line from Mr. Mareshki. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u130	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I hope it was inexcusable in your speech, but in the interest of justice, I am obliged to point that out. Yes, indeed GERB is the largest centre-right party represented in the Bulgarian Parliament, but it is not the only one. We are also representatives of the people who define themselves as the right-center. We will always continue to defend the right to democratic life, the right to free business, the right to free speech. This is what pluralism is and democracy is all about. Everyone has their own programs to the voters. Everyone gets the voter's assessment. In the interest of justice, I note that GERB is not the only representative in parliament. Yes, he is the largest, but there is also a smaller representative of the centre-right community in Bulgaria and this is the Political Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u132	Dear Madam President, Mr. Mareshki, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Mareshki, I want to thank you for not succumbing to BSP provocations and threats. As far as I understand at the Conference of Presidents, to you or to a group of MPs from the.Voljas have been threatened that if they support Valeri Zablyanov's resignation, they will request your resignation. I can tell you that we will not succumb to their provocation either. I'm sorry if I offended you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria is entering the hall. It's a thrill. Noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! I put to the vote a draft decision for the early release of Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I'm not going to read you the whole decision because it was read by Mr. Kirilov. Please, the Quaestors, help the MPs, they have a problem with the vote. Vote 181 MPs: for 110, against 71, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Honourable colleagues, guests of the National Assembly are citizens of the Seventeenth Election Region. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Who's gonna introduce us to him? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow Mr. Lazar Lazarov to be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy," and Mrs. Kalina Petkova "Director of the Directorate of the Ministry."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u135	I ask that we vote on this proposal. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Noise, excitement.]] Please, colleagues, take your seats in the hall! Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u136	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 2 February 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 14 February 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of the Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions.The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Mrs. Snezana Malakova, Director of the Directorate of Law at the National Insurance Institute and experts from organizations of social partners. The bill was presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed changes aim to ensure a level playing field between adoptive parents of children up to 5 years of age. Three types of leave for adoption of a child are regulated in the current legislation: leave for adoption due to adoption in the amount of the difference between the age of the child on the day of his surrender for adoption until the expiry of the period for the due leave for birth. 163, para. 6 of the Labour Code, leave to raise a child up to 2 years of age......................................................................................... 164 of the Labour Code, and leave for adoption of a child from 2 to 5 years of age. 164b of the Labor Code. With the provision of art. 164b of the Labour Code, in force from 1 January 2014, created for the first time an opportunity for a worker or employee who adopted a child aged 2 years under full adoption, to take leave of absence of 365 days from the day of the transfer of the child to adopt but not later than the age of 5 years. The legislator has bound the birth of the right to leave with the age of the child, which shall be assessed at the date of entry into force of the judgment on adoption. In practice, there are cases where the date of entry into force of the adoption judgment precedes the age of 2 years of the child. Therefore, adoptive parents shall not be entitled to leave under art. 164b of the Labour Code and on leave under art. 163 and 164 of the Labour Code. For children who are soon to be 2 years old after adoption, leave shall be granted on the basis of art. 164 of the Labour Code and ends with the age of this age. In these cases, the amount of leave to raise the child is less than the amount of leave to which a worker or employee is entitled, who adopted a child from 2 to 5 years of age. s 365 days from the day of transmission to the child for adoption. There is also a difference in the amount of the benefits during the leave under art. 164 of the Labour Code The compensation is in the amount determined by the Law on the Budget of State Social Security (380 BGN). for 2018) and during leave under art. 164b of the Labour Code, compensation shall be 90 per cent of the average daily gross wage or the average daily insurance income of the person on whom the insurance contributions have been paid or payable for the period of 24 calendar months preceding the month of occurrence of the insurance risk. In view of the practice of implementing the regulation, which in some cases creates prerequisites for inequalities between adoptive parents due to the different age of adopted children, the bill allows all adoptive parents of a child up to 5 years of age to take leave for a period of 365 days from the day of the transfer of the child to adopt, but not later than the age of 5 years. In view of this, the relevant amendments to the provisions of art. 163 and 164b of the Labour Code. The main objectives set by the Bill are: suppose equal rights of people who adopt children up to 5 years of age. By providing equal rates of leave for adoption of children up to 5 years of age (365 days from the day of handing over the child for adoption) and paying the same amount of monetary compensation from the state social security (90 percent of the average daily insurance income of the person for the previous 24 months), equal treatment between adopters is ensured. suppliing the necessary parental care and family environment for raising children. "Improvement of the motivation of individuals to adopt children. The Commission received the opinions of KT Supporta and CSTs, which show that both organisations support the objectives and motives of the Bill. They express their understanding that the bill will guarantee equal rights for adopters, overcome the current inequalities, provide the necessary parental care and family environment for raising children and increase the motivation for adoption. A partial preliminary impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. A reference has been applied by the Ministry of Justice according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts on the Compliance of the Draft Law with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code was published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Public Consultation Portal on 12 December 2017 with a fixed 30-day period for proposals and opinions on it. Upon completion of public consultations under art. 26, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts and before the approval of the Law by the Council of Ministers on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Portal of Public Consultations is published the reference for the opinions received. The bill was approved by the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute and discussed at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The members of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation have unanimously supported the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Nadia Klisurska, Rumen Genov, Julian Papashimov and Hassan Ademov. All Members of the National Assembly have expressed their approval of the amendments to the Bill and the reasons for it. The representatives of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria stated that the bill will not fully meet its objectives because it does not create a level playing field between the adoptive parents of children of any age. According to their studies, 80% of children admitted to the adoption register are over five years of age. These kids are the most difficult group to adopt. If the scope of the Bill is extended and children of all ages are covered, it could be expected that the process of adoption of older children will be stimulated. It is also a measure to enable the use of targeted leave for adoption of children over the age of five of future adoptive parents. In the discussion were expressed opinions that the matter is very delicate and that it should be taken into account not to create some kind of discrimination between biological parents and adoptive parents. It would be unacceptable to create advantages for adoptive parents at the expense of biological parents. As for whether one year's leave and benefits are an incentive for adoption of children, positions were expressed that they are hardly the dominant motives when people decide to become parents through adoption of children. Most MPs are of the opinion that the problems with adoption in Bulgaria will not be solved by providing more rights. In order to overcome the difficulties in the adoption process, a complex of measures that are not the subject of a bill should be triggered. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u137	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! For those who know what today is, it will not surprise our declaration. In 1999 the UNESCO General Conference set 21 February for International Mother's Day. Today we will mark it for the 18th time together with many countries around the world and along with the carriers of more than the 6,000 languages of the earth, believing that linguistic diversity is a spiritual wealth and immeasurably intangible heritage of mankind. Language is primarily a means of communication, but at the same time it is defining our spiritual nature, our ethnic belongings and our cultural identity. As a state, we are already part of the 500 million-dollar European Union, which, with the values of the new time, has the ambition to ensure the co-existence of the languages of all nationalities, according to the calculations 175 at this time. In this situation, it seems inconceivable and absurd to prohibit the use of language within a united Europe, even more so that since 1992, the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages has been in operation, which is actually a common treaty for their protection and promotion. But, alas, there are paradoxes in Bulgaria! We have an electoral code, according to which the use of mother tongue during an election campaign is prohibited, even by translation. The recommendations of the Venice Commission are not taken into account and they hang in time against European practice. Interestingly, the language as a gift of God is taken away by law. The right to speak as a fundamental factor for democracy is suspended and thus the Bulgarian democracy is discredited. The equal opportunities of all free Bulgarian citizens to hear, understand and reflect the political messages are deeply compromised because the elderly, representatives of minority communities do not know and understand Bulgarian. In this sense, this democracy is strange, in which a nationalist majority imposes its rules on the minority contrary to universal human values, contrary to the level of civilization and the demand of modern time. Is it even possible to limit language in a given territory in today's mobile and global world? Is it democratic for language to be sanctioned? Is it okay to fine a guy because he's talking to another guy and they're getting along? Dear colleagues, language is a means of communication, not an instrument of discrimination. The language is sacred to my ancestors, which unites us to the community, to our millennial history and culture. There is no way that Turks, Jews, Armenians and Roma will be torn from their roots. In recent years, there has been a clear trend in some regions of the country not to study a mother tongue at all or to drastically reduce the hours in schools for four hours they are now only one week and are studied optionally under the Pre-school and School Education Act as a freely elected subject. It is not acceptable in schools to have constant obstacles and restrictions, eternal problems with finances, with teachers and their qualifications. We ask: Is it normal for 25 years in Bulgaria not to publish textbooks in mother tongue? Let's check whether this is the case in other European countries, what is the attitude towards the study of mother tongue, Bulgarian language in countries where there are Bulgarian minorities - Serbia, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine, Albania. I would like to emphasise explicitly that this is the right thing to do, and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms supports this policy, but at the same time we are also embarrassed that double standards are coming out and they are worrying to the knowledgeable, understanding and thinking people. These issues and this opinion have been expressed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for many years. We remain a voice in the desert, but in this way the doubts about the essence of Bulgarian democracy and before we are blamed and guilty again, let us say that education is a national, state priority and not a party policy. However, as a political force, we have done what is necessary and have provided the necessary support for the study of mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, we feel today's International Mother tongue Day is very meaningful. It's a day when we can tell each other about the rules and the curves, so let's fix it together and move forward together if we're going to be human. Historical destiny has given us this land, which is our common homeland, and this time in which to live together in peace and harmony, each with his own language, his own faith and his own culture. Let's be human! Be safe!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. We continue with the next report, it belongs to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 14 February 2018, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 14 February 2018 discussed and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov informed the MPs that the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Code remove the prerequisites for inequality between adopters born from the different age of adopted children, allowing all adopters of a child up to 5 years of age to take leave for a period of 365 days from the day of the transfer of the child to adopt, but not later than the age of 5 years. The proposed amendments to the Social Security Code regulate the amount of cash compensation during the use of leave, which is 90 per cent of the average daily gross wage on which contributions have been paid for the period of 24 calendar months preceding the month of occurrence of the insurance risk. The right to compensation shall be settled if the adoptor does not take leave to raise the child, in the amount of 50 per cent of the compensation to which they were entitled. In the subsequent discussion the People's Representative Svetlana Angelova expressed the opinion that the adoption of the bill will equalize the rights of adoptive parents of children from 2 years of age to 5 years of age. The MP Vesela Lecheva expressed support for the bill, pointing out the need to refine and supplement some of the texts between first and second readings. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 19-vote vote held, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Colleagues, I suggest we do the debate after the break. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u142	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are moving on to debates on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. You have expressed your wish to speak. [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva signaled the MPs to enter the room.]] The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues are coming in. I have released the notification signal to the MPs that it is already time to enter the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Please, the secretaries of the groups, invite the MPs to the Chamber! Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the reasons for the bill, it aims to ensure equality between adoptive parents of children up to 5 years of age. In view of the above, we should inform you that the envisaged amendments and additions will not fully achieve those objectives. Because there are prerequisites for inequality between adoptive parents because of the different age of adopted children. Despite the obvious reason for the proposed changes, we cannot fail to take into account the fact that the intention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to introduce paid leave to raise an adopted child up to 5 years is a step forward, but extremely insufficient, because there is an age limit of a step that still hangs in the air because the interests of 80% of children enrolled for adoption are not protected. These 80% are children over 5 years of age, and the percentage is even higher when children are added, adopted over 4 years of age, for whom parents will not be able to enjoy the full amount of one-year leave. Don't all these kids need time to adapt to their new family? In order not to be naked, I will mention several figures from the Social Assistance Agency for the number of children in the adoption register. They are of the order of about 2500 children, and if we look at the data, we see that 238 children were adopted in 2016 to 1 year, between 1 and 2 years of age 165 children were adopted, between 4 years of age and 5 years of age - 104 children, and over 5 years of age - only 46 children. The time needed for adaptation is not a whim of parents or a whim of psychologists. This is a mandatory prerequisite for a good start and building an emotional stability of the child. Every month spent outside the healthy family environment leads to delays in the physical and emotional development of the child. Imagine a 6-year-old who lived under the hoop of the institution with minimal social skills and emotional development of a 4-year-old, and this child falls into a radically different environment for strangers who have no time to get acquainted, and he is expected to go into a preschool group, to cover regulations like all other children. Deficits and gaps are catching up, but it takes a lot more than a day or two. The compulsory pre-school training shall take effect from 15 September of the year in which the child is 5 years old. And what do we do with a 5-year-old who turns 5 in January? The mother, the father, the adoptive parents, have no right to this targeted leave for adoption and ultimately the child leaves only in September of school. Where's the equality here? This is one of the prerequisites for the inequality of adoptive parents because of the different age of adopted children. We believe that a legislative provision should be provided for adoptive parents of children over 5 years of age to be able to benefit from the right to leave of 365 days from the date of transmission of the child. We propose that the period of use of this right be gradually reduced, and that, I suppose, will be subject to a debate between first and second reading with the proposals that we will make. But I'll also mention a few legal acts. In accordance with art. 8, para. 1 of the Pre-school and School Education Act provides that pre-school education is mandatory from the age of 5 years of the child. However, Article 67 of the same law provides that the basic forms of pedagogical interaction are carried out in a full-time, semi-day, part-time or self-employed organisation of parental choice, under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for pre-school education. That is, the legal framework provides for the possibility for a parent to train his child on his own at home without attending a group in pre-school or school training. In this way, the necessary period for adaptation of the newly adopted child at the age of 5 could be provided. We believe that the fact that children of this age should attend a pre-school group or school does not deprive them of the need to have an adaptation period with their new family environment. Moreover, at this age they have to get used to the two major changes in their lives at the same time as the new family and the beginning of the learning process. It is a well-known fact that children have difficulty accepting such major changes and need a long period of adaptation. At the beginning of the transition period from visiting a children's establishment to visit a pre-school group, children often experience difficulties and need their parents and their support. Giving leave to adoptive parents over 5 years would help children to go more smoothly during this period and socialize more quickly. This would help them to be able to attend the pre-school group more quickly, and it would be better served by the purpose of the law. It should be noted that children with their parents all the time, not only during the school year, which lasts from September to May, need to spend time together in order for the child to adapt to the new family environment. It is a pity indeed that these changes are dictated not because it is realized that children need time, but by the Commission's decision to protect against discrimination last summer, in which a case of adoption of a child under 2 years of age was considered. When will we consider a case where, at the time of adoption of the child, it is over 5 years old, it is not clear. However, there are such complaints. But whatever the Commission's decision to protect against discrimination, will these legal changes depend on it? I would also like to mention the measures of the Agency for Social Assistance in support of the children who are adopted and of the parents. There are insufficient universal support services for the child and parents who adopted children in the post-innovation period, as well as specialized trainings for parents who adopt a second child. Working with families has no preventive and supportive character, and the surveillance carried out by the Department of Child Protection is very often formal. Practice shows that parents are directed to a service after identifying a problem by not analyzing information about problems in families who adopted children. In order not to have to rewrite changes in time and discuss such proposals again, it is important now that we resolve this issue more effectively and fairly and that the decision be the target leave for all children regardless of their age in adoption. And finally, I'm going to end up with some rhetorical questions that I'm going to ask and that I'm going to answer. Even during the debate in the Commission, when we discussed the proposed amendment to the Labour Code, the question arose: will this improve the adoption system? Indeed, this is a step forward, and we all have to admit that the problems related to adoption are complex. Others of you will most likely ask the question related to the provision of the necessary financial resources. After all, the state provides a targeted state resource in terms of foster care. What would be better if we stimulate the adoption process and those 2,500 children who are in the adoption register get their more adequate care, namely through adoption, because it is the best form of protection for children deprived of parental care? And that is the state policy applied for. In this regard, I state the opinion of our parliamentary group.. we will support the proposals made to amend the Labour Code, but we hope between first and second reading and when we comment on this adoption leave in the end, it will become targeted and the age of the child is not determining. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Until recently, the Bulgarian legislation did not settle the issue of the rights of adoptive parents to adopt a child and the use of leave to raise it. After that, with changes in the Labour Code, I think that from 1 January 2014, three types of leave for adoption of a child were regulated legally by the adoption of a child - leave due to adoption in the amount of the difference between the age of the child on the day of its surrender for adoption until the expiry of the period for the due leave for birth, leave for raising a child up to 2 years of age and leave for adoption of the child from 2 to 5 years of age - art. 164b of the Labor Code. So as of 1 January 2014, it was possible, when a child who was 2 years old was adopted, under the conditions of full adoption, to take leave amounting to 365 days from the day of the transfer of the child to adopt but not later than the age of 5 years. So leave is tied to the age of the child. Changes are now being proposed in order to ensure equal rights for adopters to overcome the current inequalities and provide the necessary parental care and family environment for raising children, and not least to increase the motivation for adoption. This brings admirability to the proposed changes and is reason to support these changes, only I ask myself the question: what changed since 2012, when a similar project was proposed, and the same draft was rejected by the then majority dominated by GERB, with the votes of 102 MPs, for the then group of Coalition for Bulgaria and for the resolution of the above-mentioned inequalities, and now, six years later, is proposed the same? Rhetorical question. Let's not go back. In addition to the support of the Council of Ministers' proposal, however, I will allow myself to state strongly and some criticism of it, which is expressed in the fact that the envisaged amendments and additions will not fully achieve the objectives set, namely that of ensuring equal treatment between adoptive parents of children, because if a child is adopted at 4 years of age, his adoptive parents will again not be able to use the full amount of 365 days, because, according to the proposed amendment, leave can be used for a period of 365 days from the day of the transfer of the child to adopt, but no later than the age of 5 years. This creates conditions for disadvantaged treatment of parents of children over 4 years of age, so it is necessary for adoptive parents as a whole to provide for the so-called "useful leave' not to be restricted by the age of the child. This is also the opinion of the Bulgarian Association of Adopters and Adopters (Bulgarian Association), a non-governmental organization whose representatives think they know a little more about adoption than anyone else in this House. If you look at the adoption statistics, you will see that the number of candidates for adoptions is maintained in recent years, about 80% of the children for adoption in the adoption register are over 5 years, less than 10% of the adoptions in Bulgaria are children over 5 years, and in a quarter of the applications for adoption, this preferred profile concerns children under 5 years. Now with the changes we will eventually ensure a level playing field between adoptive parents of children up to 5 years of age, but the question is: what do we do with children over 5 years of age? Adoption is an extremely serious and delicate act, so I will speak very carefully in this case, because the matter is delicate, but, as you can see, children over 5 years of age are mostly in the Register, and at the same time the interest in these children is less. We, with the changes, are trying to introduce an incentive to those who already want to adopt children from 2 to 5 years old, and for those for whom I apologize for the expression, there is no interest in them, we do not foresee any leave or at least aligning their rights with others. And that sounds strange to me in the general background of the good intentions of the Council of Ministers and respectively of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I think that, as responsible lawmakers, we should provide for a legislative provision that provides that adoptive parents of children over 5 years of age can benefit from the right to take leave of 365 days from the date of transmission of the child. Perhaps we should comment on the question that the use of this right to be able to be gradually reduced in proportion to the age at which the child is adopted, but must have it. The adoptive parents are never fully prepared for what awaits them and what to expect when they adopt a child, especially when it is older, no matter how much they read and how interested they were. Adopters and children take time to sort out their relationships, and it gets better when they're more together in everyday life. The older the child, the more he has lost his life, the more time he needs to catch up, the bigger the adaptation period for the new environment. Future adoptive parents don't always have the opportunity to get to know the child they want to adopt. Many times, as they have been through a lot while making a decision while struggling with the Bulgarian adoption system, they are ready at any cost to take a child and then the necessary time for adaptation is longer. I know the argument that the limitation to 5 years of age is to prevent the possibility of discrimination between adoptive parents and biological parents because at 5 years of age children are necessarily starting to attend a school or a children's institution, which is why adoptive parents are anyway taking leave for a time when children are away from home, visit a children's or a school, and so discrimination will be created with regard to biological parents, for which, you know, both maternity and childbirth leave and parental leave until 2 years of age are stopped at the moment when the child starts visiting a children's establishment. We need to think about discrimination, but we need to really take into account all the problems that adoptive parents face and not forget that there is another argument that a period is needed to fit, adapt, to get the child accustomed to the parents, to adoptive parents, and vice versa. This is a very important condition for adoption to be successful. At this age, children and adoptive parents have to get used to two major changes in their lives - a new family - and inclusion in the educational system. The fact is that children have difficulty accepting such changes and need a long period of adaptation. At the beginning of the transition period, when visiting a school or a children's institution the child has difficulties and needs their parents and their support. Giving leave to adoptive parents over 5 years would help these children to pass more painlessly during this period and socialize more quickly. This would help them to be able to attend the pre-school group more quickly and adapt to education and the objective of the Law would be better fulfilled. That's why we have to think this way. No matter how old the adopted child is, it needs a period of adaptation between him and his future parents. And once again, the changes must be supported, but once we have said........................................................................................ Between the first and second votes, it is necessary to clarify the provisions and to arrange for the situation of these parents - adopters of children over 5 years of age. I don't feel like opening up the subject that there are children in the adoption register with physical problems, with other problems that make them, again, I am very careful, I apologize for the expressions, but they make them unattractive to adopt. In developed countries, children with problems are also adopted, but there the state cares a lot about them.. finance their rehabilitation, training, adaptation in normal schools, if I may say so. With us, these kids are much harder to raise. Their parents are not financially insured so that their child and they can feel good about themselves in society. This is an extremely long topic and we will not exhaust it with this debate on the amendments to the Labour Code. Perhaps this debate did not take place entirely in the Bulgarian society, so adoptions in Bulgaria are so difficult. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to now support the amendments to the Labour Code, but between the first and second votes to think about children over 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, it has not become clear to colleagues at the moment what we are debating in this House, what this bill contains. According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, art. 80, para. 4 at first reading the bill is discussed in general and in full. Members of the National Assembly are based on the fundamentals of the bill, and you in your exhibition, as well as your colleague, have fully emphasized what you will be bringing between first and second readings into this bill. We must tell our colleagues that this bill is extremely important. This is a long-awaited initiative by all adoptive parents because, with these texts, we equalize the rights of all adoptive parents of children up to 5 years old, namely that they will be entitled to paid leave of 365 days together with the corresponding compensation from the day of handing over the child up to one year. From your speeches you see, as always, an opposition denigration of every useful, good legislative initiative of the government or, as one phrase says, "Search under the ox." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Any other lines? I can't see. For the coat, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u149	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you are not prepared! And I have read the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and I have read Art. 80, para. Four of those rules. And if you want, I can repeat my statement, but this time listen carefully that I have spoken only on the Bill and on what is at stake in it. [[Heckling]] I can do it! Yes, I can repeat it! I don't think that's necessary. There were some strange things that sounded in your speech. You want, I don't know, to set up the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and against the Bill or me, I couldn't understand, but did you hear me express any negative to what you're proposing? On the contrary, I said I admire him and support him. I have a personal opinion, of course, but I suppose it is shared by the majority of my parliamentary group and by the non-negotiable one on the issue, I share the opinion that we are not entirely solving the problem. Can you tell me now, although you don't have the right to a next answer, if you want, you can take a speech afterwards and explain to the audience here, the people of the National Assembly, and also outside the people, the adoptive parents who will take children over 5 years, why are you denying them the opportunity to take some leave or some period of adaptation with these children? Explain it to them. Otherwise, I will vote with both hands for this proposal because it is a step in the right direction. And because of your stubbornness, from 2012 until now, we have missed this period and have deprived people of this opportunity to take leave, so, Mrs. Angelova, think about it, and the entire parliamentary group of GERB let us support this, but let's think about the other people who will adopt children over 5 years. Don't pretend it all starts with you and ends with you. There are other people who think about it, much more correctly than you do, and more socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u150	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Personal explanation? Were you mentioned, Mrs. Klisurska? Were you mentioned by name?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u151	Well, the coworker.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u152	Did you recognize yourself in that statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u153	Yeah, the college girl who spoke before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u154	Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I am taking the occasion for a personal explanation and will return to the reasons for the bill because you commented that we have gone beyond the scope of what is currently being proposed. No, we haven't gone beyond the scope and I respect your motives for the proposed bill: There is a prerequisite for the inequality of adoptive parents due to the different age of adopted children. It was precisely because of this premise that our speeches with colleague Gokov were regarding children over 5 years of age who were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Statements? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lazarov, Mrs. Petkova! This draft amendment to the Labour Code, in my opinion, should not oppose the MPs and their opinions. On the contrary, the maximum possible level of consent should be sought. Because both adoptive parents and children who are in the adoption register and biological parents need not opposition and confrontation of individual groups, but need to seek common consent, a common solution to their problems. And they, as is known, are not few. Therefore, perhaps in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, despite the differences that individual colleagues had in their speeches, we were able to find agreement and this bill was supported by a consensus at first reading. I am convinced that it will now be supported by consensus in this House. This bill tries and largely finds the way in which adoptive parents of children up to 2 years of age and those in the range between 2 and 5 years of age are equal. What, though, is it about? There are a few simple things. First of all, it is not about uninsured adoptive parents who are in another regime, they are under the Family Aid Act for children, but only about parents who are insured and have rights under the Social Security Code. Next, ladies and gentlemen, there are currently three possible hypotheses in the Labour Code. One hypothesis is in art. 163 of the Labour Code, where it is regulated, where leave is established due to pregnancy, birth and adoption. I give you a specific example: if a child of six months is subject to full adoption and is adopted at six months of age, the order of the court shall be entered under this article. 163 the adoptor has the right to leave until one year of child's age. The second hypothesis concerns the cases in which it concerns the establishment of leave to deal with a child up to 2 years of age. In general, the biological parents, when the child is 1 year old, in the budget of the state social security every year, the compensation for the raising of the child is not a coincidence, I stress the benefit, which means that it is an insurance risk, the compensation for raising a small child from 1 to 2 years of age is determined each year with the budget of the state social security, and for the next year this compensation is 380 BGN. Now, however, the other hypothesis arises. It has existed since 2014, and shortly ago colleagues said that these texts were adopted on the proposal of the then MP Zahari Georgiev between 2 and 5 years old, those who have been established are entitled to this leave within one year, only between 2 and 5 years old. Since we're talking about some statistical data here, I'm also going to allow myself to say a few such data. Colleagues, before the entry into force of this text in 2014, which allowed the use of leave to adoptive parents between 2 and 5 years of age, adoptions were about 1000, i.e. there was no such hypothesis of leave between 2 and 5 years of age. After entering this text from the Labour Code for adoptive parents between 2 and 5 years of age... Here, I will tell you, for example, that last year adopted children are 578 total, which means that this opportunity for adoptive parents to take leave between 2 and 5 years of age is not only the sufficient argumentative factor of candidate adoptive parents. Candidate adoptive parents have a complex of factors that motivate their desire to adopt. There are many reasons, and we do not have time to dwell on all these things, but I would also like to mention one more thing. Last year, adopted children are between 5 and 10 years old and are only 50 out of 578 adopted children according to the Register of the Agency for Social Assistance. So we seriously need to think about whether we should make proposals that increase this age group, or whether we should think about how to solve the remaining complex of reasons that are currently an obstacle to full adoption. These are the important things that we must bear in mind. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a step forward in the sense of equality, in the sense, if you will, of justice. My request is with consensus to support this bill and to give a good sign to adoptive parents of children between 2 and 5 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u158	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We from GERB's parliamentary group will support the submitted bill, because with the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code changes are being made to ensure equality between all adopters of children up to 5 years of age who wish to adopt a child. The bill allows all adoptive parents of a child up to 5 years of age to take paid leave within 365 days of the day of the transfer of the child to adopt, but no later than the age of 5. It shall also ensure the payment of the same amount of monetary compensation to be paid during the use of leave, namely 90 percent of the average gross wage or the average daily social security income of the person on whom the contributions are imported. The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code does not impose any additional financial spending and does not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget, but is, at the same time, very important in order to clarify this equality between adoptive parents of children within 5 years, and I therefore call on you to be supported by all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dobreva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, THE BOEATRAPAS, THE TRANSPARENT SUBSTANCES AND THE PYROTECHIC ARTICLES. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u161	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I propose a procedure for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u162	I'm voting on this procedure. 100 MPs voted: 99, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u163	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 702-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017, adopted on the first vote on 7 December 2017. Law on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and Exhibitions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u164	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u165	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "Single identification code (LEI) " where the persons are registered under the Commercial Law or are deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 a comma shall be finally placed and added by indicating the number under which the document is registered at the National Information and Documentation Centre or the relevant university where the person continues his studies. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 words shall be provided a copy of a document certifying the right to operate under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the Private Security Activity Act, issued to the person under the Private Security Activity Act......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u166	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u168	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, which the Commission shall support. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u169	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, p. 4 words shall be provided a copy of a document certifying the right to operate under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the Private Security Activity Act, issued to the person under the Private Security Activity Act......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u170	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u172	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 6, which the Commission shall support. Vote: 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u173	The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. The second sentence shall be a copy of a document certifying the right to operate under Article 5. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the Private Security Activity Act, issued to the organizer under the Private Security Activity Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u174	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 7, which the Commission supports. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u176	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 7 by importer, which the Commission shall support with a new numbering................................................................................................... 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9, in which the words. 5th para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 5, para. 1, t. 4............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u178	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u179	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u180	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 9. Vote 93 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u181	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u182	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text in paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u184	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u185	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 2, p. 4 words shall be provided a copy of a document certifying the right to operate under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the Private Security Activity Act, issued to the person under the Private Security Activity Act......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u186	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 14. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u187	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3, p. 3 the words "EICs" when registered under the Commercial Law, or "EICs" are deleted. 2. In para. 5, t. 1 the words "EICs" when registered under the Commercial Law, or a certificate of entry in the register under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, or a certificate of entry shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u188	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 15 which the Commission shall propose. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u189	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. Two is canceled. 2. In para. 3 t. 1 and 3 are repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u190	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote three texts: the version proposed by the Commission in the text of § 16, the text of the importer for § 17, which shall be supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for § 18, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u191	The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1 t. 1 words.............................................................................. 81, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u192	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 with a text which was presented and the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 20 and is supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted. Continue with the presentation of the texts, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u193	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21, which shall be in accordance with Article 20. 2 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 5, para. 1, t. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 1 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words shall be provided a copy of a document certifying the right to operate under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the Private Security Activity Act, issued to the person under the Private Security Activity Act......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u194	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21, with the amendment to the text proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 21, which shall become § 22. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u196	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the importer, which shall become paragraphs 23, 24 and 25, supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u197	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26, in c. 3 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 5, para. 1, t. 4............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u198	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26, as amended by the Commission, and the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u199	The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 122, para. 2, p. One, two, four and five shall be replaced by one. 122, para. 2, p. 2, 4 and 5 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u200	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph 28 and the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29, supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 30, in which case the words "art." 5, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 5, para. 1, t. 4............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31, in which the words "art." 5, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 5, para. 1, t. 4............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u202	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 30 with the correction proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u203	The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 18 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, a sentence second is created: 17, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 18, Art. Art. 61, Art. 65, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 76, Art. Art. 80, Art. Art. 81a. 121 contain a place to fill in an identification code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 32. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u205	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u206	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u207	Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Danail Kirilov: "Paragraph... of the Transitional and Final Provisions to be amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. 57 of 2016) in § 52 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for paragraph only and proposes the following version for paragraph only, which becomes § 33: ................................................ Paragraph 1, t. 3, § 5, § 7, § 9, § 14, § 21, t. 2, § 22, t. 2, § 26, t. 3, § 30 and § 31 shall enter into force from 31 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u208	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Danail Kirilov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 24, against 36, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal that paragraph be the only paragraph to become § 33 with the version proposed by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposal has been adopted, and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles has been adopted in the second vote. Thank you, Mr. Manev. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVESTRUCTION OF EXPENSIONS. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u209	Colleagues, I suggest that we give our vote for admission to the hall of Lachezar Borisov. "Deputy Minister of Economy," and Zhelyaz Enev "Director of the Department of Economic Policies for Promotion."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u211	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u212	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u213	Proposal by the National Representative Petar Kanev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is created a new § 1. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2a, para. 1 the words "Regulation (EU) No 652/2014' are replaced by "Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1084 of 14 June 2017 amending Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 as regards aid to port and airport infrastructures, notification thresholds for cultural and cultural heritage aid and aid to sports and multifunctional recreational infrastructures, as well as regional operating aid schemes for outermost regions and amending Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 as regards the calculation of eligible costs (OJ L 156/1 of 20 June 2017.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 652/2014'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u214	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u215	Colleagues, in order not to take the floor a second time, what I am proposing to you right now, there is only one technical amendment, it is a pure European directive. The law was adopted by consensus both at first and second reading in our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u216	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text which has been presented to the Members of the National Assembly. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u218	Statements? I won't. I put four texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer for § 1, which becomes § 2; second is the text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 3; third is the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 4; fourth is the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5. The four texts shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u219	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 5, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u220	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision supported by the importer and the importer's proposal to reject the text for § 5 as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 1. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u221	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 6 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u222	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote, first, the Commission's proposal for the removal of § 6 as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 7 and the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6 and which shall be supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u223	The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... The regional investment aid scheme and the training aid scheme exempted from the notification obligation under Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 shall not apply from 10 January 2018 until the rule of law has been brought into line with Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u224	Statements? I won't. I put three texts to the vote. The first is the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with a text which was presented to the MPs; the second is the text of the importer for § 8, which is supported by the Commission; the third is the text of the importer for § 9, which is supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Thank you for the introduction, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u225	Colleagues, thank you for your extremely active participation in both the Commission and the House. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u226	Thank you. The next item on the agenda is: ANNUAL REPORT OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE ON THE APPLICATION OF THE DECISIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT ON THE RIGHTS OF THE HUMAN IN CASE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2016 There is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Who will present the report? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 September 2017. At a joint meeting held on 14 February 2018, on the basis of art. 112, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights have reviewed the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 September 2017. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Justice: Prof. Nikolay Prodanov, Deputy Minister, and Ms. Maria Dimitrova, Government Agent at the Office of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights and by the institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman. The annual report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 was presented by Professor Prodanov. The report shall contain statistical information on the number of legal proceedings and decisions given for the period 2015. In 2016, it is clear that in 2016 the trend for reducing the number of complaints lodged against Bulgaria as well as the number of decisions given with at least one infringement was maintained. The total number of complaints lodged is 794 for 2015 and 723 for 2016, respectively 28 judgment decisions for 2015 and 33 for 2016. A permanent trend for improving the compliance of the Republic of Bulgaria with human rights standards is established and the Republic of Bulgaria ranks 15 in number of complaints and 7 in number of judgment decisions. In addition to the report Prof. Prodanov explained that in 2016 the total number of decisions against Bulgaria in the stage of implementation are 290, of which 94 are precedents. He added that to date, decisions in the stage of execution are 213, and 31 judgments have been given in the past 2017. As factors that are essential for reducing complaints against Bulgaria, Professor Prodanov pointed out the legislative changes and measures taken during the period aimed at: - improving the conditions in the prisons and the introduction of compensatory and preventive remedies for the protection of prisoners with the amendments to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention and the Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code; - ensuring the right of prisoners to be included in training programmes in prison places; - respect for the principle of avoiding double punishment with changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure; - empowering the Ministry of Justice to prepare reports on the compliance of the bills with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights with the amendments to the Law on Legislative Acts; - ensuring that the limited number of persons concerned are able to request the annulment of the suspension of the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. The Deputy Minister of Justice presented in detail solutions revealing serious difficulties, outlined in Part Two of the Report, under which the Republic of Bulgaria is in an enhanced surveillance procedure. He added that some of the outlined categories have already been overcome with the changes undertaken in the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Code, Civil Procedure Code, Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and other legislative initiatives. Mrs. Diana Kovacheva recalled that in 2017 25 years have passed since the ratification by the Republic of Bulgaria of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and expressed the opinion that the ratification of the Convention and the decisions of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg achieve legislative changes to raise the protection of human rights to a European level. The discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Dimitar Lazarov, Pavel Shopov and Krum Zarkov. In response to Mr. Velchev's question Mrs. Dimitrova pointed out that the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice, which deals with projects in the judiciary and makes assessments of the efficiency of justice, is functioning with the Council of Europe. Prof. Prodanov explained that the report reflects given decisions on complaints filed before the period considered and some of the topics concerned, such as ensuring sufficient guarantees for the protection of human rights in the use of special intelligence means, have already found reflections in the Bulgarian legislation. People's representative Krum Zarkov said that from the Bulgarian BSP will support the report of the Minister of Justice. In response to his question Mrs. Dimitrova pointed out that a number of measures have been taken to improve the penitentiary system in Bulgaria in response to the judgment decision. She pointed out that significant changes to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, Criminal Procedure Code and Criminal Code were made in 2016. Prof. Prodanov pointed out that the decisions given by the European Court of Human Rights create a difficulty in their implementation because there is no single mechanism for this, but stressed that the Bulgarian national interest is represented and defended successfully. After the discussion, The Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers supported the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 September 2017. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers supported the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u229	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural request for access to the hall of Deputy Minister of Justice Professor Nikolay Prodanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on the proposal for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister of Justice Prof. Prodanov. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u231	Thank you, Madam President. I don't suppose there's anyone who wants to make a statement? Once in the socialism of the series the Golden Grid had a joke at a trade union meeting they said: "We will hang you, comrades!." Full silence, no objections, only one comrade raised his hand and asked: "Do we carry them, or will you deliver them to us on a trade line?............................................................... Now I am trying to be this socialist person to raise the issue of national humiliation and the question of masochism, with which we have for decades now adopted this whole series of decisions, of acts that fall on our backs, to us Bulgarians, to pay, to creak our teeth and for years to shout: Let's fix, let's do more, give solutions, to pay faster, to be even more effective in relation to this, literally, execution. You know, in the last 70 years, excluding the conflicts in Yugoslavia, for which special courts were created, there were no particular reasons for such supranational institutions, the courts that were supranational, over justice, over individual countries in Europe. However, there is such a court and it is a typical liberal influence tool, to limit the sovereignty of all countries, because where national justice is exhausted and someone else intervenes, and is above the Bulgarian Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Bulgarian courts, there is interference in the judiciary of a state for me. Okay, we have signed these agreements, there are relevant conventions, we are party to them, we have to implement them. All these years after that, my question is: won't we be critical, won't we say, "Enough of this iniquity, enough of this interference." Let's see the case studies, see what kind of money we're paying all the time, and as they push us to practice certain policies! Do not talk about slow justice from France and the Netherlands, countries famous and emblematic, set an example among students in law schools, slow justice! The answer is.. it was slow, but it was qualitative. Countries where state fees are so impossible to talk to us about hindering the possibility of receiving justice, here lawyers understand me well, they can never compare themselves to democracy in this respect of our justice, with the possibility to file complaints, claims and to look at cases in Bulgarian courts. Many times I have talked about Bulgarian justice, which is not as bad as some try to make it out. They're trying to make it so bad that they have reason to criticize us, pressure us, feel guilty, and from now on, do someone's will. I will give another Bulgarian historical example, because today this hall was full of history, a lot of history. Karavelov, seven years later in the Black Mosque, now known as "Holy Seven," came out and Western, European reporters asked him about what happened. He responded in the way that every worthy Bulgarian patriot answers: "In Bulgaria, such things do not happen. " - This example is known to you, at least to the majority of you. If you do not know, I tell you: read this case! What's going on in Bulgaria? A pack, I'd call it a lawyer, along with so-called non-governmental organizations, has rushed, for them it's a business. You know, there are a percentage of what will be taken by the Bulgarian state with the sanction and the coercion of foreign decisions. In front of me at reception, such citizens cried out how they eventually took almost nothing, because the relevant lawyers and NGOs, who organized the entire process, received the lion's pie from the compensation. That's right! All this has become a business in Bulgaria and no one says it, no one says it, no one gives a signal to do anything against it. Other emblematic examples in the Report, get acquainted with it, can you imagine the name: one-one against Bulgaria, a group of citizens against Bulgaria? For example, OMO "Ilinden" against Bulgaria for this there is a judgmental decision, we have to pay money. I don't know if they're paid, if they're not paid. Or a group of citizens against the Bulgarian Orthodox Church? What are we talking about? Why? Because a few years ago the case is this one, I have studied it: a group of citizens who have survived, who are left behind, wanted to register us more, no less by the name of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and according to the Bulgarian laws this was not admitted, but from Europe, from this court, someone there decided who knows what principles, how much is according to our norms, how much is consistent with our morals, our justice, with the Bulgarian interests, that these citizens were right and we are condemned. Not a cry, not a moan! I mean, like that socialist citizen who asked, "Will we wear our ropes, or will they deliver them to us on a trade union line?" There was no wishing to speak the way he followed. And we've learned: from somewhere someone says, says, we vote, we accept uncritically, without telling the truth about things. These things we in Ataka have talked about 13 years ago, when we entered this room about the case against Bulgaria! The other thing that amazes me very much and awakens my amazement is: why should we in the National Assembly adopt this report, the Ministry of Justice Report? What is so important about this report that it passes through the National Assembly? The answer is very simple to pass things here, to receive the penalty, to bow our heads, to say "to" pass as a sanction by the highest authority, that is, from the National Assembly it is not enough to pass this through the Ministry of Justice. All this I am talking about for another purpose.. every convicted, natural, legal person has its own policy in and at the time of the execution of the penalty imposed by the courts. We know what it is. Very often such convicts, such indicted natural, legal persons do not allow or come to the execution of the punishment. This is a matter of their personal, human, as individuals and legal entities, politics. Let's have one, so I also address the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and we as a people, as an entity, as a state-law or subject, to have a wise policy, not to sell ourselves and to shout: a fist to give more, to pay, to do, we will fix it. Enough with the guilt and national masochism!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u232	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. A statement has been made by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u233	First of all, I would like to say that we support the Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. I would like to point out your attention that this is a Report covering the legislative activities of the previous National Assembly. Colleagues would like to exclaim here: "What does the Minister of Justice's report have to do with the work of the National Assembly, the executive body?The duties and the work of the Minister of Justice and our work are in direct and immediate connection with the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, I would also like to commend the work of the previous parliament for 2016. It is also a prerequisite for the next report on This Decision shall We completed 2016 with several really tense legislative procedures, which we then explained in detail that it concerns the implementation and requirements of European Court of Justice decisions. One of the legislative procedures was the ZINZS Act for Punishment and Detention. There we really gave a new revolutionary right to persons deprived of liberty to have an initiative and to be able to apply for early release. This is also much argued in society, in our social and political lives and debate. The truth is that there is a significant reduction in both the complaints filed by Bulgarian citizens who claim that they have not received justice or their rights under the European Convention have been violated, we have a serious tendency to reduce the judgment of the European Court of Justice. At the same time, we should be aware that our legislative work should continue in this direction, without experiencing any special or extraordinary nervousness or jealousy that we respect the decisions of this court and that exactly 25 years ago we joined this convention. Even in today's opposition leader, although there is no connection on matter, said: "We will also appeal to the European Court of Justice. In particular, this decision of the National Assembly cannot be appealed before the European Court of Justice, but it is seen in the Bulgarian law-consciousness, albeit those who are law-abiding lawyers, have the impression that the European Court of Justice is a universal institution for the protection of our civil rights and freedoms. We have made serious progress with regard to the implementation of the principle "Not without one" in Bulgarian criminal and administrative criminal law. This work continued in 2016 and 2017, and it was objectively indicated in my opinion in the Minister of Justice's Report. I joked in the Legal Commission that in the Report the Minister did not praise the legislative body enough, but I really think we can experience a justified degree of satisfaction from the fact that during this period and the next we worked hard and hard on these issues too. I will also mention the case, which my colleague Shopov mentioned just now in relation to the case OMO "Ilinden" against Bulgaria. After many years, we corrected our registration procedures and registers so that non-governmental organisations register in a light order and register in the Registry Office. By the way, the Council of Ministers of Europe, Mr Shopov, has repeatedly posed this question: Bulgaria is in default, Bulgaria is in default. We had the impression that we had a serious problem with registration, association and free formation of all types of organizations. I think we have overcome this negative in 2016 and 2017. I will limit myself in the complacency or in the praises I express to my fellow Members who supported these bills. Perhaps it is appropriate for Professor Prodanov to also give him an opportunity to take an opinion on the reports. I believe that our efforts must continue, and that we are already one of those linked, interrelated with the European values state and legal system. We missed, Madam President, with the report to read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u234	I mean it. I'm gonna have to ask you to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u235	Thank you. Project! DECISION on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice Human rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria In 2016 the Commission adopted a The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopt the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-21.u236	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to Mr. Daniel Kirilov's statement? There aren't any. Are there any other statements? There's no wish to make a statement. Mr. Deputy Minister, would you like to take the floor? You don't want to take advantage of that right. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the proposed draft decision by Mr. Kirilov. We are voting for a decision on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Vote 82 MPs: 70, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, this was the last item for today and the last vote. Tomorrow, the regular meeting of the National Assembly is at 9.00.
