ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, after the Conference of Presidents, there have been some amendments to the Programme. It is distributed to everyone, you can find the displacement of the proposals in the project and a new point for setting up a Temporary Commission. It has been accepted with the consent of representatives of all parliamentary groups. The work programme for the period from 18 to 20 July 2018 shall be: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 2. Project of a decision to terminate the actions for granting a concession for Sofia airport. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The people's representative Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs are importing. 5. Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 6. Draft decision on the adoption of an updated investment cost project "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Navy." Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. The people's representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs are importing. 9. Selection of members of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The procedure of choice is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 27 June 2018. This is the first item for Thursday, 19 July 2018. 10. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the bill amending the Social Security Code. Importers are the national representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. This is point 1 for Friday, July 20, 2018. 12. Choice of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 27 June 2018. This is point two for Friday, 20 July 2018. 13. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers are the national representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. That's point three for Friday. 14. Parliamentary control comprising: 1. Debates on a request from MP Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government on migration in Bulgaria and Europe. 2. Answer questions and questions. We vote on the National Assembly's Work Programme during the week. Vote 164 MPs: 150 against 1, abstention 13. The offer is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, e.g. 13 in the so adopted Programme is the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads. This is a very important bill. I do not want to comment now on why Members of Parliament are bringing it in, not the Council of Ministers. This is the law of law, if I may say so, in the field of regional development and transport. The Minister of Regional Development here for a whole year to all of you, when you asked him about your roads in the regions, answered you: She's fair. She will give the money for the renovation. And importing this bill is not the Council of Ministers! Do you understand the paradox we're talking about? The Council of Ministers, which should organise this whole system, has abdicated the problem and left things in the hands of Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I suggest you drop this point, the Council of Ministers, with the name behind this thing. This is an important change in Bulgarian legislation. This is an important change in Bulgarian legislation! At the very least, fellow Members, note a point concerning the Roads Act is not allocated to the Transport Commission!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u3	Is there such a thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u4	I expect to be assigned the Law on Sheep Plague in the Transport Commission, but this Law will not be allocated to us. Tell me: could the Transport Commission not get acquainted, not give an opinion, not give an expertise? And you're in a hurry to be point one for Friday. Yeah, I know why you're in a hurry, but at least let the importers know what they're offering. Because on Friday, I've been listening to every single car have an electronic billing machine. No, there's not gonna be one of those things! Be correct to the Bulgarian voters because they listen to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u5	Your time is running out, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u6	There'll be a device like this in the trucks, not in the cars. I suggest a t. Thirteen down, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u7	Thank you. Any other opinion? I won't. I put to the vote a procedural proposal made by the MP Mr. Svilenski for dropping a point from the just-adopted programme. They voted 167 MPs: 68 against 76, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Messages of bills and draft decisions received for the period from 11 to 17 July 2018: A bill to supplement the Law on concessions. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importers are the national representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government as the leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Proposal for a debate on questions, No 854-05-41 of 20 June 2018, from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government on migration in Bulgaria and in Europe. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health. Draft decision to take action to reach an agreement in Case COMP/B1/AT.39849 The people's representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs are importing. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Messages: The National Assembly has received an Opinion of the Court of Auditors on the consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The material is available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Public Sector Accountability of the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has received an adjusted Report of the Ministry of Economy on the implementation of policies and budgetary programmes for 2017 and a summary thereof. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 11 July 2018 the National Assembly provided the developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council Opinion on the topic: the Mountains and semi-mountain regions of Bulgaria. The material is provided to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 July 2018: on the indexes of turnover in the Department of Retail Trade, without the trade in cars and motorcycles in May 2018; on indexes of industrial production in May 2018; on indexes of construction production in May 2018; and on inflation and indexes of consumer prices in June 2018. The materials are available to the national representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am taking the procedure now, before the start of point one, because for point two most politely, politely, humbly asking, since I understand that the Prime Minister is affected when we speak to him harshly "to come to point two" and to explain the need to grant concession to Sofia airport. Also, let the Minister of Transport come here, who said that this is a historic event, that is, to hand over some state assets that bring you profit into the hands of some foreigner. Therefore, I say again, we politely ask the Prime Minister to order the Bulgarian Parliament together with the Minister of Transport and to take part in the debates. Thank you for that. Please invite them by point two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We will inform the Prime Minister and the ministers about the invitation, but you know that they are at a meeting at the moment. They have a meeting, but we will inform them. Thank you. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACTIS AND THE DANISH CARDS. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will present the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u10	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. At a meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u11	Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, please. I know this is our first session of the week, and I know that you are now entering into conversation, but please, keep some quiet, because you are not hearing what the rapporteur is reading, what each of us should know. Please continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u12	In the Commission meeting took part: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms. Tatiana Nakova State Expert, and Violeta Gadzheva Chief Expert at the Department of Tax Policy and Head of the Ministry of Finance; Julian Mirkov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency, Svetla Genova Director of the Directorate of Active Activity and Methodology and Svetoslav Vladimirov Head of the Department of Research and investigation of excise violations in the same agency as representatives of industry organizations. The bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The bill introduces a change in the applicable excise duty rate for the taxation of a hot tobacco product and its taxation is equal to that of cigarettes. In force from 1 January 2018 in art. 12a of the Law on excises and tax warehouses is introduced a definition of a heated tobacco company, such as with the provision of art. 38, para. 2 of the FAD for the same is fixed excise rate of BGN 152. for a kilo. At this excise duty rate, the amount of excise duty per box of heated tobacco products (20 pcs. cigarettes in one box, with weight on the box 6.1 grams and price 5.50 lv. per box) is in the amount of 0,93 BGN. For comparison, if these heated tobacco products are subject to the excise duty rate for cigarettes, then the amount of excise duty will be BGN 3.54. for a box. In this respect, the aim of the change is to ensure the revenue of the excise budget given the increase in the market share of heated tobacco products. There is also a change in art. 64, para. 1 of the ZADS, as for beer, which is in packages over 5 liters, is introduced obligation to bind with Banderol. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill propose that the change in the excise rate for heated tobacco products should enter into force from 1 October 2018. Opinions were received in the Commission on the Draft Law by the Ministry of Finance and various branch organizations. The Ministry of Finance generally supports the Bill. Branch organisations disagree with the bill given the drastic increase in excise duty on heated tobacco products in relation to their taxation in other EU countries. They also note that the system for the excise taxation of cigarettes (short) is not applicable to these tobacco products. The same forms are available in various forms, such as cups, tubes, capsules or heated tobacco, where the total consumption is tobacco and in this sense they consider that the tax base should be the weight of the tobacco mixture. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission expressed principled support for the Bill, but pointed out that its further discussion should take into account the comments of industry organisations and make changes to the Bill by reducing the proposed increase in excise duty on heated tobacco products from 100% to 40% of the excise duty on cigarettes in order to make the increase more smoothly. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Who will present the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. At its regular meeting held on 17 July 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and Tax Warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the legal entities concerned. The bill proposes to introduce a change in the applicable rate of excise duty for the taxation of a hot tobacco product with a view to levelling with that of cigarettes. In force from 1 January 2018 in art. 12a of the Law on excises and tax warehouses is introduced a definition of a heated tobacco company and by the provision of art. 38, para. 2 an excise rate of BGN 152 is fixed for it. per kilogram, as for a box of heated tobacco products is 0.93 BGN. For comparison, if these heated tobacco products are subject to the excise duty rate for cigarettes, then the amount of excise duty will be BGN 3.54. for a box. The draft law aims to ensure revenue from excise duties given the increase in the market share of heated tobacco products. There is also a change in art. 64, para. 1 of the ZADS, such as beer, which is in packages over 5 liters, is introduced a Banderol adhesive obligation to optimize the control of beer sales. The transitional and final provisions propose that the amendment of the excise duty rate for heated tobacco products should enter into force from 1 October 2018 and, as regards the introduction of benderol for beer bottled in packages of more than 5 litres from 1 January 2019. In the discussion held, the members of the Commission expressed their principled support for the Bill and got acquainted with the opinions of the organisations concerned. Representatives of interested parties disagreed with the Bill, given the drastic increase in excise duty on heated tobacco products in relation to their taxation in other countries of the European Union. They drew attention to the fact that the system for the excise taxation of cigarettes (short) is not applicable to these tobacco products. The same forms are available in various forms, such as cups, tubes, capsules or heated tobacco, where the total consumption is tobacco and they believe that the tax base should be the weight of the tobacco mixture. Any other tax base would violate the equality of different types of heated tobacco products and would lead to circumvention of tax legislation. The Members of the National Assembly noted that further discussion of the Bill should take into account the comments of the interested parties and make appropriate changes to it. Attitude on the presented bill took the MPs Dora Hristova, Kalin Vassilev, Dimitar Avramov, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Emil Dimitrov. After the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, 8 votes against abstentions and without abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u15	Thank you. There will be no presentation of the bill by an importer. We are continuing with a debate and I am opening the debates on the bill. You have the floor to speak. Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will use as a cooperative procedure to present the reasons of the importer, as it is obvious that importers also give up arguments to the National Assembly. My fellow Members, firstly, I would like to declare that I have no conflict of interest, secondly that I am a non-smoking man and, thirdly, that we are all obliged to do our best to reduce smoking. Regardless of what cigarettes are, they are harmful to health, they are harmful to society's health, but at the same time we need to show a differentiated approach and follow the practices of the European Union of the developed and many developing countries. I have five or six motives that I will put before you that we will prove why we need to have a differentiated approach and why we will not support this bill. First of all, legal arguments have been violated by the Public Finance Act. Dear colleagues, we cannot change the tax legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria from 1 October and violate the procedures for the formation of the budget and tax laws in the European Union and in the Republic of Bulgaria as a member state. How are we going to adopt amendments to a Law that enters into force from October 1st? This is a violation of the Public Finance Act. Secondly, there is a violation of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the Law on Legislative Acts. Honourable Members, we have repeatedly discussed the issue that the proposals in the laws should always have a detailed analysis of the impact of the adoption of the law. In the reasons proposed by the colleagues from the ruling coalition, there are no estimates of what will be the impact on budget revenues and, most importantly, what will be the changes in the spending part of the budget. Because, honourable Members, we do not agree with the effect of applying the changes in tax legislation to be measured only with money, as tax laws have two functions: one is filling the budget in each country and there must be revenue in the budget. The second is that tax differentiation all over the world is used for what? For a change in the behaviour of producers, consumers. Which way? In the direction, in the case of improvement of public health. So, my fellow Members, there are no such estimates. We've heard of some 15 million additional revenue, 20 million additional revenue, then 2 1/3 million additional revenue. Where are the readings? They're not in the motive. Where are the estimates regarding expenditure, honourable Members? Why are there no accounts when so-called smokeless cigarettes do not release toxic substances? They release the same harmful nicotine that is absorbed by the body of smokers, but over 150 types of toxic substances are not excreted. There's no reason to go into medical discussions here. One is the burning of tobacco in classic cigarettes at 900 degrees where toxic substances, carcinogenic substances, tar are issued, another is when the burning occurs at 300 or 900 degrees respectively. So there is no discussion regarding the issue that burning tobacco at 900 degrees issues additional toxic substances, and therefore smokeless cigarettes are less harmful. You, by stimulating and stopping the introduction of less harmful cigarettes, have you considered in budget expenditure how much this will cost the Health Insurance Fund? How many sick absences will there be due to the diseases of smokers? How much loss will there be on gross domestic product? Because, honourable Members, this is done in the estimates of the United States of America and their Medicines and Food Agency, this is done in the UK, the same estimates are made in Germany and the European Commission. In June, the director of the Federal Drug and Food Agency of the United States, Scott Gottlieb, says that his agency works for a faster transition than traditional to so-called innovative or smokeless cigarettes, I quote. But according to him, the tax parite between traditional cigarettes and smokeless cigarettes hinders the achievement of this goal. The latest studies and decisions of the Federal Food and Drug Agency of the United States recommend a differentiated tax approach. Secondly, the analysis of the possibility of differentiated taxes for these products in the UK has just been completed. Now, on June 12, 2018, after a three-month discussion, the UK government made a decision and, in July, the UK government submitted to the British Parliament a draft for differentiated taxes in terms of smokeless cigarettes. Next, changes are proposed to a law that we adopted in November, ladies and gentlemen. What does it mean? That after eight months we were making repairs?! Is it not clear that this means that the estimates of the coworkers, the motives with which they went before us seven or eight months ago, were misleading, were wrong? They couldn't figure out the proceeds. Oh, boy! Now they're gonna fill the budget with another three million. Ladies and gentlemen, the motives are for avalanche growth in this segment of the market. What's the avalanche growth? I quote from the reasons: between 1 and 2%. If 2% is an avalanche increase in costs, I really don't know what 70% is, for example?! How will they be defined? Therefore, the readings in your motives a few months ago were wrong. With your motives, when you said those cigarettes were less harmful and you offered lower excise duty, you misled... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] So comes the National Assembly... Now you're offering us a new solution. After you made a mistake in November, what's the guarantee that you're right now? None! Because you're wrong again. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] In addition, the next argument - what now requires, in July, that we change taxes in violation of the Public Finance Act? Honourable Members, the period of study is now complete, a comparative analysis of the European Commission precisely for smokeless cigarettes. I think it expires on 12 September 2018, which means that the European Commission has adopted a decision by the end of 2018 to submit to the European Parliament a proposal for a European directive concerning smokeless cigarettes and differentiated taxes. The European Commission has said that by then Member States are free to determine excise duty from zero to excise duty equal to classical cigarettes by decision of the Member States. But at the end of this year, there will be a new European Union directive that will be based on tax differentiation. He asks: Why should we violate the Public Finance Act? Why should we adopt this law two or three months before the new European Union directive comes out? Next argument. If you open, the motives say, I quote, that almost the action on smokeless cigarettes is equal to the so-called classic cigarettes in Croatia, Germany, Greece, Latvia, the Netherlands and ten countries. I'm sorry, but this is either premeditated misleading information or your information is wrong. Why? Because in Croatia the excise duty is 13.6%; in Greece these are your motives... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] It's not the same, it's 24%; in Latvia, it's not the same, it's 10%; in Slovakia, it's not the same as you claim in the reasons, it's 11.3%; in Slovenia, it's not the same as you claim in the reasons, it's 13.1%. Get on the Internet! Any child can enter to see the European Union's excise table. So you don't have any arguments. Finally, the argument that we will lose jobs, ladies and gentlemen, because we would have financed, for example, British American Tobacco in Romania. First question: why British American Tobacco buys "Bulgartabac" in Bulgaria for 105 million, and in Romania invests 1 billion 70 pounds in the production of innovative cigarettes in a new segment of the market? They have decided to produce them in Romania. How are we going to get them to do the same in Bulgaria, as everyone reports that this is a new trend in this market? Aren't we going to make them invest in Bulgaria by imposing excise duties to force them to produce the new type of cigarettes that are less harmful than the classic ones? Next, are the German people and the government more humane than the Bulgarian government? They shut down thousands of jobs and shut down diesel engine production. Why? Because emissions from diesel engines are bad for people. You must have heard about the hybrid engines. You know that taxes on hybrid cars, so-called hybrid cars, are lower. Why? Because they're less harmful to people. Why do you want to impose an excise duty equal to new cigarettes that are less harmful, smokeless cigarettes, the same as the most harmful cigarettes from which relevant toxic substances are separated? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 July 2018, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov said: Let me see you vote now. Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u17	Thank you, Professor Gechev. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u18	My fellow Members, I am a non-smoker, and I am a lobbyist, a well-known lobbyist for revenue in the budget. In contrast, I will not be an advertising agent for hot tobacco products. [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask that all Members who are speaking in the future be limited by this function. The main thesis on which Mr. Gechev's statement was built was that these heated tobacco products are less harmful and that is why we need to stimulate them. I will not dwell on the health aspect of the problem, because I am convinced, and not only myself, officially, although without doing final research, the World Health Organization clearly and categorically says that they are harmful and must be taxed in a similar way. However, I will refer to another aspect of the budget aspect of his speech. He will say that, yes, there are calculations that in one year with this difference in prices, which is BGN 2.60. On a box, about 32 million are lost. lv. It is true that last November we adopted a low excise rate, but it is also true that no one anticipated such a massive increase in the proportion of these cigarettes. Mr. Gechev quotes 1. 2%, I will say that compared to last year the volume of sold hot tobacco has increased by more than 50%. If this growth is maintained, and I think with similar advertising agencies and the wonderful advertising campaign that we've done on TV and radio, it might be overrun. Then for next year perhaps the hole in these heated tobacco products will be bigger. Mr. Gechev says, "Why?" This is provided for in the budget and we must not change it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u19	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u20	Yeah, it's in the budget, but with this excise duty on cigarettes, which is meant for conventional cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u21	Mrs. Stoyanova, your time is entering the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Come in for a second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u22	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, my line is to Professor Gechev because I was under the impression that he was a professor of finance. Here a long and wide advocated a thesis that slightly coincided with the thesis of manufacturers of such tobacco products that, you see, they were less harmful. Therefore, I will allow myself to quote scientists from the University of California who have published their research in the prestigious medical edition BMJ Journals, in which they say they have found that the device when heating tobacco releases much more toxic chemicals and increases the quantities of nicotine that are inhaled. The plastic filter also releases bipolymeric compounds that serve to cool the money in tobacco. Thus, when heated, it releases toxic chemicals such as formaldehyde, cyanohydrin, which can be fatal to humans. Scientists claim that these compounds are metabolised in the liver and decomposed to formaldehyde and cyanide. Mr. Gechev, stand on this stand and tell the Bulgarian citizens, although the box of these cigarettes and these tobacco products says that they are harmful to health, that you guarantee their health, longevity and smoothness in the use of these tobacco products. In conclusion, because you quoted the FDA as saying that the US agency, which is certifying food and medicines and their impact on the body, will mention the World Health Organization report that is uploaded on the website. He claims that there is currently no evidence from independent scientific sources to prove that heated tobacco products are more harmless to those around them than conventional cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u23	Mr. Ivanov, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u24	In conclusion, I will only say that I use these tobacco products, but I do not dare to claim it from the stands of the National Assembly that they are harmless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line.. National Representative Petar Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u26	I want to start with a funny tone and create a slightly more relaxed atmosphere. We are divided in this room not of parties, but of smokers and non-smoking ones. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and some others make a small exception. Agree, though, dear smokers, that you are offered to smoke cigarette butts. They don't give you cigarettes, they give you cigarette butts the gypsies collect them. [[Radio.]] That's the same thing they're giving you right now to smoke it with electronic cigarettes. [[Replications. Awesome.]] That's how you smoke. The second thing I want to say: however, by education I am a chemist and I am absolutely certain that what they are telling you is not true. At a temperature of 90o and in a wet environment, there are actually a lot of chemicals that don't tell you what they are, what they are. The question I have for Mr. Gechev because he is a professor, the man knows and I have respect for him is: which is subject to excise duty? That the substance is a drug and is recognised as such by the World Health Organization, or that the substance has tars and I don't know what it is? What's the reason for the excise duty? In my opinion, the reason there's excise duty is that it's limited to taking drugs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Professor Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. In short: firstly, in terms of revenue in the budget. Budget revenue can be decided in another way in 100-fold to increase revenue related to excise goods. First, in Bulgaria, the excise duty on fuels is the lowest in the European Union - approximately 350 euros per thousand litres against more than 800 euros in the Netherlands. The prices of petrol and fuel in Bulgaria are approximately the same as the average of Europe. You probably already figured out the structure is different. Other countries and nations collect between 300 and 500 euros in their budgets, while in Bulgaria at the same prices, these excise duties go into the pockets of the owners of refineries in Bulgaria. If you touch there, it's hundreds of millions. Secondly, now, on Thursday, you will submit a bill that creates tension among all of us, the parliamentarians, with which you want to simplify an oligarch of 50 million. lv. through various shment-capels in the Privatization Act. Here, 50 million. lv. I have provided you with additional revenue if you do not accept these amendments to the Law. As far as safety is concerned. I said I'm not a specialist and there's a discussion. Yes, there are many scientific publications that claim that the difference has not been proven. There are, however, the decisions of the authorized state authorities are credible. In the U.S., the Federal Drug and Food Agency told Johns Hopkins University the other day that they had come to the conclusion that there was a difference and that they would change taxes. The same claims clinical and state laboratories in the UK and they offer tax differentiation. The European Commission will see you again in two, three months and it will propose differentiation. Official state institutions of leading countries say, not us. We cannot participate in such scientific discussions. Regarding the issue of excise duties. Dear colleague, yes, excise duties are imposed on luxury goods and goods harmful to health. I will say again: all cigarettes that contain nicotine are harmful to health here there is no dispute, only one except nicotine releases and toxic substances. I think it's not complicated to understand that a cigarette that only has nicotine without toxic substances is more harmless than a nicotine cigarette and toxic substances. Is it that complicated? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Replies from GERB.]] Thanks for asking. We will vote as Prime Minister Borisov recommends and we will withdraw the bill for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u29	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Next statement please, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group will not support the proposals for a change of excise duties, but not for the reasons that have been highlighted by the left and at all in the debate that has been held over several weeks. It is impressive that both sides used arguments that, to put it mildly, are controversial, not to say false. The fiscal argument is correct in some ways. In the middle of the year there is no way to take account of how the revenues are going, respectively the budget losses from the collection of this tax. In addition, the legislator has expressly foreseen, and it is good to observe this norm, a change in tax rates to be made since the beginning of next year. Here I will bring Mrs. Stoyanova back to the first debate in the Commission, when these cigarettes were even out of the law, when the producers, importers and distributors themselves wanted to bring them to the Budget Commission, you remember the exact same time of the year, to introduce excise duty in order to be able to import them. Then we turned them down because it was the middle of the year. And now, because it's the middle of the year, we're changing the excise duty. This is one of the main reasons why the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament will not support the Bill. Untrue is also the argument that this product is less harmful, at least because it has not been proven and has not been proven because it has not expired enough time to make the relevant studies, observations, trials and so on. There is no way that this argument would require a preference in terms of the fact that the product is less harmful. The truth is, now is not the time or place. The truth is, this debate should continue when tax laws come in. The truth is that there will surely be losses for the budget.. there is no way to be challenged by anyone, and we do not dispute it. Each bought box of this product means one box less than the other. If the difference in excise duty, the revenue for the budget is left for a box, I think from 3.50 leva. up to BGN 0.93, the difference is serious and we need to think about it. And that this product will win a niche market is more than clear. Given that much of the population cannot afford it because of the expensive initial investment, imagine what will happen when producers make this investment free of charge or at a very low value. Then the sales will go along with the exhibit. So we, as legislator, Mrs. Stoyanova, should think about this, but when the time is right and in a deeper debate. To point out fiscal arguments in the middle of the year is not serious. It is also not serious to point out arguments for benefit or less injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the BSP we will not support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, not only with the argument that these cigarettes are less or more harmful, but because, once again, as last year, we violate the budgetary procedure. Just like last year, we decided to change the structure of the excise duty a month before the parliamentary vacation, and this time with the argument that there is an uncollected revenue of 30 million. Last year, at that time, we changed the structure of the excise duty in order to reduce excise duties for cigarettes. Then there was no argument that there would be less revenue. I think we should leave this debate for the normal budget procedure at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! This point, of course, as always, when it comes to excise duties, raging the spirits. The fact is that it is not standard to change excise duties in this period of the year, however, the fact is that the case is also quite specific. As is known, IMRO MPs specifically opposed the initial proposal for 100% excise duty on cigarettes and, as a result of our rather bright position, came to a debate that adopted a compromise approach. The reason for our resistance and the reason for adopting this approach in the end is our conviction that even if there is a small chance that these cigarettes are less harmful to smokers and to the surrounding smokers, let us not forget this too, we must support this chance and give a preference in the name of health at the expense of the proceeds in the fisc. It was unacceptable for us to have a sharp appreciation of this type of product that would take them out of the market before we proved or not their less harmfulness. In this regard, we will support this proposal, not least because we have the assurances that this minimum increase in excise duty will be taken over at the expense of manufacturers and distributors. In fact, this is an indicative increase because on the basis of what will happen on the market, we will make our decisions should this excise rate be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, colleagues! Let's look at the simple facts. Both conventional cigarettes and heated tobacco are very similar. One has nicotine and the other has nicotine; one is smoked and the other is smoked. There's natural tobacco in one, there's chemically processed tobacco in the other. One causes dependence and the other causes dependence. Now the numbers. One of the cigarettes we're using is BGN 109. BGN 3.55 per thousand shorts in the country. The other product we use is BGN 152. per kilogram of the country enters 0,93 BGN. The difference is above BGN 2.50 and the habit is harmful. There is a huge public interest in this, and there are not a few smokers in the country, unfortunately. There was a lot of noise. Of course, between first and second readings, we have already submitted a request, we will look for an option, because currently the excise duty of graduating tobacco products represents about 26% of that of conventional cigarettes. We'll be looking for a way not to be 100% of conventional cigarettes, but about 40%. What the figures show since last year: by the end of last year, the share of people who smoke hot tobacco or use hot tobacco is about 1%. By May 2018, this share is already 1.4%, it is expected to be at least 1.6% by the end of the year. That's over 50% growth. Finally, the budget figures of what the budget would lose from people who eventually move from conventional cigarettes to heated tobacco products and import less excise duty are calculated, as has been said before, to over 30 million. lv. for this year. In the end, I want to say something other than facts, something more emotional. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a chemist, I'm not a professor, I can't understand the analysis of all the harmful substances that are included or that contain cigarettes. And there are hundreds of them not only cigarettes, harmful substances also contain heated tobacco products. But I'm a smoker like many of you in this room, and I'm sure you, like me, are not proud of it. We all know that smoking is not useful, we know how it affects our body and our lives. I do not want the state through excise in any way to stimulate our children, my child to smoke conventional, heated or any cigarettes. It is a harmful habit, a habit that, rather, we need to put efforts into looking for options, to eradicate it. In the meantime, we also need to take care of the state budget, because these funds can be used in education, in healthcare, in the social sphere and so on. I hope we're reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u38	We agree that there should be a debate on the amount of excise duty, but, as I said in the statement, we do not agree that now is the time. However, this rate adopted was on a proposal from the ruling majority, the Ministry of Finance and, as we said in the annual budgetary procedure for 2018, it was adopted in a hurry, without sufficient analysis and without sufficient estimates. This is also seen several months after the budgetary procedure, that the Ministry of Finance has not done a good enough analysis, that there is elasticity in tax collection, and when there is a new product, there will be a reduction in excise revenue in conventional cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Discussion is important because it is principled for two reasons. The first reason is that with this decision, if it is voted on and adopted, we will violate the Public Finance Act. The second reason why we will not support this request for a change in the excise rate in the middle of the budget year is that there is a long-standing established practice, more than 25 years, to change excise duty or taxes on the eve of the new budget year. And the health or health of cigarettes, I think, has been clarified for a long time and is not the subject of this debate, but the subject is the legality of the decision that we are about to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. Third line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, I understand your motives to try here, from this tribune, to defend the Law, but come find arguments. You brought in a law with the same parameters. The Prime Minister said to you, "Take him away, you have withdrawn him." Now another law is being introduced with other parameters. You are getting up to defend and because you have no arguments, we come to the children, to the upbringing and to whether your children or my children or our children should smoke less or more. Two years ago, those cigarettes were gone. The accent was high and the kids were smoking again. If you don't have arguments, at least don't get into one that doesn't make sense in the debate. Months, two years you're an MP. You've had those cigarettes on the market for two years. Why didn't you bring it in November last year? Why didn't you bring it in last year? How did you know now, July, that you had to change those cigarettes? Find your arguments to defend these because, colleagues, the same will happen on the next point. You ask for a concession at Sofia Airport. You have no arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Angelova's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We're talking about arguments. A major argument from the left that I heard was that this was not the time. When's the time? When the budget loses more money? I don't think we should be wasting time. It is not right to wait three, six, ten months or a year when we see that the budget is losing some revenue that can be collected. That's why, based on your basic thesis, this is not the time, because I didn't hear anything else from you, I would say this has happened before. There are examples, there is no great drama, it is possible, it can be done. And when we see that something is not as it should be, we've always admitted it and we've tried to fix it, unlike others. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! And I will first go with declarations: firstly, I do not smoke at the moment; secondly, I do not produce cigarettes; and, thirdly, I do not trade in cigarettes, so I have no conflict of interest. I find it strange why the importers refuse to present their motives, but perhaps you have risen to the height of inaccessibility when you no longer need to convince anyone with any motives, you simply say, it is accepted and goes on. However, no matter how high you are, you need to answer some questions, because they also sounded in the previous statements, but they do not receive answers. First of all, why now? Why in the middle of the budget year? By the way, this question has been asked by all my colleagues, but I'm thinking about how these mothers of disabled children who are protesting and you're explaining to them that there's no way... [[GERB lines.]] Nothing, you just have to answer them. How do you explain to them that in the middle of the budget year you can't increase what they need to receive, how to change payments, and suddenly you change tax laws in the middle of the year? Come on, somebody get out there and explain to them! You even convinced them that their law, which they want for personal help, cannot enter from the middle of the year because it is linked to payments, and what is also related to payments, to a budget, to taxes, you are offering it now. Answer that question! I'm asking one of the importers to stand up and say it. Why now, when thousands of Bulgarians reached for these smokeless cigarettes, which started with the ad that they were less harmful, perhaps two years ago, you did not react? You didn't go campaigning against them, and now suddenly, when you saw that they started selling, you started convincing people that they weren't less harmful. I do not know who are less harmful and who are more harmful, but people who start smoking these cigarettes are convinced that they are less harmful than others and therefore do so. It's your fault for letting it happen. Isn't that what you're doing right now, for the benefit of manufacturers of conventional cigarettes? Is there no pressure on you on their part? You must also answer this question for such a quick and urgent action. I heard that some of the importers were lobbyists of revenue in the budget. I am also a budget lobbyist because, when there is more revenue in the budget, a better social policy will be made, only that we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we offer you several times, repeatedly, let's say the progressive taxation, which you with some bait contradict and do not accept. How do I know you're lobbying for revenue in the budget if you're not doing something that might be worth a billion dollars in the budget, and you're lobbying here for some thirty-something million? And you should not only be budget revenue lobbyists, but also expenditures and, above all, social expenditures, which I do not see from your parliamentary group. My colleagues and I are discussing a slightly more exotic proposal to ban smoking. They're so harmful that we're all in this room. Then, such a hole will open in the budget that I do not know what you will fill it with. The last thing I want to say is that I am impressed that the Prime Minister has told you to withdraw the bill. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If we have to extend the time. [[Applause to the President.]] We notice some civil disobedience in GERB, what's going on here? Explain this question, too, because I say to you: You can speak anything, but to these questions that I ask you from the stand, you will have to answer. Whether here from the stands, given to the tribune, as usual you do [[a line from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov]] I don't know, but you're gonna have to answer it, so you're gonna have to go ahead and do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u48	Mr. Gokov, I will not answer the first two questions because you answered them yourself. You're talking about expenses, about mothers of disabled children, you're talking about all kinds of social expenses, but, you see, revenue shouldn't be touched either at the beginning or in the middle of the year, even though you want more costs. I'll think of something else. You of this tribune tried to accuse me and my colleagues of doing this because we are lobbyists of conventional cigarette manufacturers. I can clearly tell you that you are the lobbyists and it is no coincidence that you were just some advertising agents of the manufacturers of such cigarettes. [[Applause from GERB]] But I don't know if you're their advertising agents, or if you work at the PR agency for Bulgaria of these producers. [[Applause from GERB.]] That you should answer in the back when you do it. Very interesting, you continue with the most insolence to say:..these cigarettes, heated tobacco products, continue to be low-rate and, you see, it will be paid at the expense of all the other people in the budget by raising the tax on total income or increasing the excise duty on fuels and so on. Greater lobbying than that, greater care for the profits of these manufacturers, distributors and their PR agencies I do not see. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, let us extend the parliamentary group's time. Mrs. Stoyanova, I don't know why, I'm not accusing anyone, only here you're allowing yourself to blame, to put up epithets, advertising agents. I don't even know who makes those cigarettes. I have no idea who makes them. [[Applause and applause from GERB.]] To your surprise, maybe, but I don't know who's selling them. So if I accused you of lobbying against some of the manufacturers of conventional cigarettes, no, I didn't. I just asked if you were doing it? You didn't dispel my doubts, so you're doing it, even though I say again that I don't blame you. You took the liberty of saying that there was a lot of insolence, our statements were insolence, because we want an increase in money for mothers. Well, it's insolence. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Oh, my God, more... [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] It is insolence on your part in the direction of these disadvantaged people. Not just picking people's pockets, but giving them a little more to those who need it. By the way, I also listened to the Prime Minister's speech last night at the awards for lightening the economy. He said the cigarette business would reduce the gray sector from 34%, as it is, to 6%. I think selling smokeless cigarettes is a way in that direction, only you increase excise duties on something people consider harmless and thus make them deepen the gray sector. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I don't know with all this yelling, why didn't you say those things when you were giving me a line? That's what we heard about advertising agents. It's not gonna work! I don't smoke cigarettes like that, and I don't... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u51	Mrs. Stoyanova, please do not distract the speaker from his main thought, because he is entering a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u52	No, I'm not getting into a dialogue. I'm just explaining that I can't be an advertising agent for something I don't use. So, Mrs. Stoyanova, it doesn't suit you to do this. You're breaking all principles. I don't know, and I can't figure out why you're doing it this time of year? If it were at the beginning of the budget year, I would have some explanation? You want to fill the treasury, yes, well, but why now and why is this haste not clear to me? Again, you tell mothers that you will give them an increase in benefits and benefits, but from 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Stoyev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're all talking about cigarettes. Before I begin, Mr President, I would still like you to take up your duties and make remarks when MPs insult other MPs, because in the end, people are blamed here for who and what they were working for, I think it is not justified if the real facts are not brought out. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this law, we are also talking about beer in addition to cigarettes. And here we're talking about beer, which is the most commonly used one in large quantities, that is, the pouring beer. GERB also wants to raise the tax on beer by benefiting with Banderol something that is really extremely unacceptable, and we wonder why you are also reaching for this pleasure of Bulgarian citizens. Isn't the budget revenue enough for you? [[Noise and lines.]] Since yesterday, the Prime Minister has again released the tablet of the fight against smuggling. And we already know that we've overcome it so much, we light it up, and we light it up that we shouldn't have any more contraband, man. We have had such a struggle every year, starting yesterday again with this refrain. The fight against smuggling, the lightening of the economy, and the whole economy must be bright. We've been fighting for so long, we've been fighting, we've been fighting, we've really got to be bright. Then, I ask: why are you reaching for the beer, Mrs. Stoyanova? I want to understand why GERB support you in this endeavor? Why? Because this law, I don't think it's written by you either. Ms. Stoyanova, I don't know if this law was written by you because it became a mass practice for the Council of Ministers to pass laws through MPs. Because, Mrs. Stoyanova, I, knowing your expertise, do not believe that you are able to lie that countries such as Croatia, Greece, Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Romania have the same rate. That, my colleagues, is simply not true. And I don't believe Mrs. Stoyanova was mistaken. So someone else let her down. But Mrs. Stoyanova will come here on the stand and explain what made you reach for the beer and the beer of the Bulgarian citizens? Isn't there that much money in the budget, that kind of lightening, that kind of revenue? Therefore, it is nice to come and explain, and let the other colleagues join in the debate, not only about cigarettes, but this law also treats the introduction of Banderol and beer, i.e. large packages over 5 liters. What made you come to this measure? Come and explain it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? We continue with other speeches. There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses with No 854 01 60, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Vote 164 MPs: for 101, against 63, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Procedure? Mr. Popov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Members of Parliament, at the beginning of this plenary, we politely asked for point two to come to the plenary, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, because this is an extremely important point. You announced that you would contact them and invite them to come. At this time we have no idea whether they will come or not, which is why on behalf of the parliamentary group we ask for a 30-minute break in order to give the Prime Minister and the two regional ministers the opportunity to order in the plenary to debate on this really important issue for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Popov, Minister Moskovski is already on his way to parliament. Do you want to call a recess for 30 minutes? [[Noise and lines.]] Fifteen minutes adjourned. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u58	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work as you can see Minister Moskovski is here. We can continue with the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Who will present the report? The President of the Commission shall personally. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to terminate the concession actions for Sofia airport, No 8540-02-37, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 11 July 2018, the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission examined the draft decision to terminate the concession actions for Sofia airport, No 8540-02-37, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Albena Lazarova, Director of the Department of Transport and Control of the Activities of Commercial Companies and State Enterprises. The draft decision was presented by MP Georgi Svilenski. According to the importers, the main reasons of the proposed decision to end the concession actions for Sofia airport are: the stable indicators of Sofia airport with an upward direction of development in recent years; the already invested over 900 million. lv. in infrastructure; the social issue for employees; the risk to national security, as well as the increase in airport charges. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. During the presentation of the draft decision Mr. Svilenski stated that there is no clarity in the concession procedure how the concessionaire will develop Sofia airport, ambiguity and policy regarding airport employees. Another argument for the termination of the concession measures for Sofia airport is the investment of more than 900 million. lv. in infrastructure, which in itself shows a lack of need for a large investment. Mr. Svilenski paid attention to the members of the Commission and to the provision of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, according to which for the revenues from the one-off concession payment under the concession contract of the Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act on guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system does not apply. In response, Minister Moskovski pointed out that in-depth studies of the practice in European countries have been carried out on how airport infrastructure is managed both in the Member States of the European Union and in those who are not. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty to distort competition and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States. Minister Moskovski said that all airports in Hungary, Slovenia, Belgium, Cyprus and Malta are managed at 100% of private operators and those in Spain at 98%, in Italy at 86%, in the UK at almost 80%, the Netherlands at 75%. In addition, Mr. Moskovski said that if the concession procedure is implemented at Sofia airport with the parameters set at the moment, it will be the biggest deal carried out in Bulgaria. He defended his thesis with the financial parameters of the concession drawn up by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. According to them, the expected amount proposed by the participant will be no less than 15 million. lv. As a concession fee per year or 10% of turnover, the concessionaire must pay an initial concession fee of 550 million excluding VAT. The minimum investment is intended to amount to 600 million. EUR, with 1.2 billion for the duration of the concession. According to him, until the tenth year of the concession the construction of a new terminal, as well as the repair, rehabilitation and extension of the existing ones is at stake. In addition, by the fifth year of the concession period, the concessionaire undertakes to carry out a study and, if the traffic shows, to entrust the construction of a new runway. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications stressed to the members of the Commission that the procedure has been initiated completely openly, in a transparent manner, in accordance with the Law on concessions, and for this purpose all documentation has been sent for coordination with all ministries and departments, and the requirements for the 14-day period for coordination are also met. Mr. Moskovski added that on 5 July the concession notice was issued in the Official Journal of the European Union, on the same day several hours after that all the documentation for the concession was published in the National concession register. During the discussion the people representative Nikolay Tishev commented on the maintenance of the staff at the airport and asked Minister Moskovski a question about the need to change the general plan of Sofia airport and whether the construction of a third terminal was envisaged. Minister Moskovski answered that the questions are absolutely correct and expert and added that there is a legal procedure which provides for an amendment to the general plan of the airport. This amendment to the General Plan should specify all parameters which concern both the construction of a third terminal and the construction of a new runway, if necessary. In the debates on the draft decision to end the actions for granting a concession for Sofia airport took part the MPs: Valentin Milushev, Pavel Hristov, Atanas Tashkov, Atanas Stoyanov, Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Halil Letifov, who expressed support for the actions of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for the opening of the procedure and award of concession at Sofia Airport. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 8 votes for a vote, 12 votes against a vote, and 1 vote abstention, proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the draft decision on termination of the concession actions for Sofia Airport, No 854-02-37, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. An introduction? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When preparing for concession a key site for the Bulgarian infrastructure, we should always, first of all, ask ourselves the question. Why does the state give up management, control and profits of a well-developed company? And since there is no valid answer so far, we offer you a draft decision to end it, to oblige the Council of Ministers to suspend the actions for granting a concession to Sofia Airport. In recent years all indicators at Sofia airport are not only stable, they have an upward direction of development. The airport's revenue in 2016 is 131 million. BGN, which is an increase of 11.3% compared to the transitional year. This is the result of an increase in net revenue which increased by 21,8%. There is a re-execution of the company's business plan. Nearly 52 thousand aircraft were serviced in 2016, which represents an increase of 16.7%. The serviced passengers increased to almost 5 million people. In total, for the last four years, ladies and gentlemen, the serviced passengers at Sofia airport increased by 86%, with only over 30% for last year. This is the highest growth among the 100 busiest airports in the world. There is also an increase in the processed loads of more than 13%, and they reach 21 thousand. T. There is also an increase in postal shipments.. in fact because of these increased airport Sofia is of profit. It is clear from the financial statements that its profit for 2014 is 5.3 million, for 2015. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty to distort competition and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States. lv. There's an increase in domestic lines, there's an increase in regular international lines, there's an increase in charter flights, business flights, cargo flights, everything's going well. The value of absolutely every indicator marks a sustainable trend and most likely the predictions will increase. It is therefore incomprehensible and cannot be justified as an appropriate allocation of concessions from a developed and profitable asset. We need to know that more than 900 million have been invested in the infrastructure at Sofia Airport so far. lv. [[Reply from GERB: "Thanks to us. "]] This infrastructure will bring ready advantages and benefits to a future concessionaire without it investing anything. A metro line is built to the airport, there is a subway station to the airport itself, roads are built, Terminal 2 and tracks are built, that is, in this case, a need for a large investment as if there is no such investment. You all know that practice requires concessions to be granted only those assets which are not sufficiently developed and profitable and the state cannot use them fully and effectively. This is obviously what can happen here, as long as the state wants to do it. A substantial reduction in the number of employees at Sofia airport is expected after the concession and for us this is a very acute problem. The airport staff are now around 2,300, but according to experts and employees there it is said that the airport staff will be reduced by at least 1,000 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u62	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u63	It's a terrible social cost. After the concession it is possible to reduce the social benefits and leave of employees as well as their wages. That can't be allowed! Sofia airport is, among other things, a national site with a particularly important strategic importance for national security. There is controlled and accumulated sensitive information about all flights, about incoming and departing passengers on the territory of the country, naturally, when we find out who is entering and exiting, when planes do not leave without anyone knowing, personal data, cargo, postal items! It is possible that the concession could lead and is very likely to lead to an increase in airport charges. This is based on the fact that, under the terms of the previous procedure, which, as far as we understand, are also set out in the following, the concessionaire was required to pay upfront at least 550 million. lv. This means that the State is ready to commit the concession fee to be included in the airport charges, and this would lead to their increase. And the increase in fees could end the positive trends at the airport and lead to a reduction in traffic. The reasons set out above should be supplemented by the fact that more than half of the airports in the European capitals are owned by the States, and that the granting of a concession to the profitable airport Sofia, in order to finance another company, BDZ, is an absolute, complete absurdity, which has no analogue in the world! BDZ has problems and they need to be solved, but the inability to solve BDZ's problems does not mean that we should wipe out Sofia airport as well. This is unacceptable! Stable indicators at Sofia airport: an upward direction of development in recent years, already invested over 900 million, a social issue for the people working there, waiting for a reduction in investment instead of raising, the risk to national security, an increase in airport charges, if that is not enough for you to end the concession business, then you have something else in mind. In view of all of this and since there is no serious motive to prove the need for concessionation at the airport, we offer as the most correct, appropriate and appropriate to the national interest: Sofia Airport is a profitable asset of the Republic of Bulgaria, to remain under its control and not be granted a concession. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u64	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Zarkov, would you like to present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION terminating the concession actions for Sofia airport The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. It does not support the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for opening procedure and award of concession for Sofia Airport. 2. Instructs the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to do what is necessary to end the open concession award procedure at Sofia airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for coming to the meeting. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we really have a difficult task ahead of us today with our vote, with our vote, to give or stop the concession at Sofia Airport. So far, we have argued that this thing is being done in the dark, hidden by the Bulgarian society. The ministry understood the dark lights, they meant the lights out, we didn't mean that. We meant that neither you nor the Bulgarian citizens were aware of why Sofia Airport was granted a concession, who would be given, what are the conditions, on the basis of what analyses the government came to these conclusions that it should be granted a concession. All of this to this day is a complete fog. It's a secret! Mr. Minister, we asked you two weeks ago to provide us with the analyses of the World Bank and the European Bank, to this day they are gone. Yes, you said you asked them if you could provide them to the third party. The third country is the MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament!? I say this is not the third country, and these people here are the first country, but according to the World Bank, we, colleagues, are the third country. And to this day, these analyses have not been provided. Just one reference. The World Bank's analysis of the toll system is public and there is nothing secret. I ask: why did the Ministry of Transport conclude such a contract with the World Bank that the analyses should be secret and none of us should know them except a few officials, probably at the Ministry of Transport? About the motives. So far we've heard our motives why we want to stop the concession. To this day, neither in the Transport Commission, nor in the media, nor anywhere has it become clear what are the motives of the government to give a concession. Three motives so far! First motive, and at your time you gave a concession. Absolutely untenable! A fact, but absolutely untenable. There's no connection between concessions. The State cannot manage state-owned companies. Understand, Minister Moskovski, because he is the principal of this company, cannot manage Sofia Airport. If this decision is adopted today, Mr. Moskovski, the only true decision you have is to go to the Council of Ministers and deposit your resignation to the Prime Minister. This means that 240 MPs say to you: Mr. Moskovski, you cannot do your job as a minister! You cannot run this company, so you must resign! This is the second motive, my fellow Members. The state cannot manage. The third motive, we need 500 million. lv. for BDZ. And that's where we stop the motives. Did you hear any motive for development at Sofia airport? Did you hear any motive for raising passengers? Did you hear any motive for increasing revenue? Or something nice that could happen at Sofia airport? The only thing we need is 500 million. lv. And that's why we're going to sell Sofia Airport! Yeah, well, 500 million. lv. You'll need it in a year. And in two years, it's going to take 500 million. lv. What are you guys gonna sell? Sofia Airport is the last state-owned company to be sold! [[GERB lines.]] What else? Because you are calling me out of the hall: it is not for sale!... 47 years and 6 months of concession giving, colleagues, to be alive and well, but none of us will be in this room to see the conclusion of this concession! [[GERB lines.]] To be in this room, I say! So, colleagues, giving for 47 years and 6 months is a clean sale. [[GERB lines.]] Forty-seven years and six months of clean sale! As you wish, so interpret it! And now a few questions to the Minister. I hope you'll answer me, Mr. Moskovsky. Your arguments, and they were said in the Commission's opinion, were: up to 75% of airports in Europe are managed by private operators. In Bulgaria more than 75% are managed from four airports, three are given concessions. We have fulfilled this indicator, colleagues! We have nothing to pursue by European indicators for dedicated airports. We've done it. But I'll give you another reference! Type of ownership in Europe.................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Replicates from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] We'll talk papers later. Outside Europe, we go outside Europe: 73%... fully public; 13%... mixed, concession, what we want to do and 13%... private. This is based on a 2016 report. Minister Moskovski very much likes to compare the concession for Sofia airport with the one in Belgrade that gave it last year. And there I'll make a few comparisons. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article Terminal area: Sofia airport. 66 thousand. kv. m, Belgrade "33 thousand." kv. Number of passengers serviced. Listen up! Sofia Airport 6 million 490, Belgrade Airport 4 million. 900. Duration of concession: Sofia airport "35" with reference to 46 years, Belgrade airport "25 years." Advance payment - what we want for BDZ - we have 281 million. EUR, Belgrade airport Euros. So when you're defending state interest, there's another way! Investments: we want 600 million. euros for 47 years, Belgrade wants 732 million in 25 years. An annual concession payment is what we are proud of being raised very high: ours in Bulgaria, Sofia airport is 7 million. 667 thousand. EUR, Belgrade airport Euros. The concessionaire must not operate an airport within a perimeter. We don't have that kind of requirement for whoever takes it. They bet 450km for Belgrade. Looks like there's some kind of defense of national interest. I don't know! The concessionaire shall have net assets for the last 3 years at least 200 million. euros for our airport; for Belgrade, 500m Euros. Well, when you heard the numbers, what parameters were better? And since I said about the concession payment, in the previous concession procedure it was 10 million. BGN, now it's 15 million. lv. There wasn't 600 million there. Euros for terminals, there's 600 here. So, it could be better, so we haven't achieved the best results, but still without discussing it here without knowing what the parameters are we're making decisions! How has the direct financial benefit of the concession at Sofia airport been proven since there are various benefits? And here I'm asking you to focus again on the numbers that I'm going to say. The direct benefits of this and in the documentation are recorded, the direct benefits are around 2 billion. 195 million. lv. Two billion 195 million leva! These include 500 million. lv. In this respect, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. 35 years each; 600 million investments EUR, which means 1 billion. 170 million. lv. A total of 2 billion. 195 million. lv. for the duration of the concession. On page 74, the justification is written: The concession holder will make annual concession fees of a total of 1 billion. The Commission Two hundred and twenty thousand. lv. What's true? If you accept the statement from the justification on page 68, which I told you at the beginning, namely that in all scenarios, I quote from the justification: "The profit margin before interest, taxes and amortizations is intended to approach the sector's rehearsals and exceed the 45 per cent demand, i.e. the profit is now 45% and up, achieved by Sofia airport, it follows that at 150 million per year, the possible profit for the concession period is 2 billion. 362 million. (BGN) And if of these 2 billion. 362 million. lv. We're talking $2 million. 195 million. BGN, which we will receive from the concession, honourable Members, the granting of a concession will cost the Bulgarian citizens 167 million. lv. less. I mean, why are we doing this? And I proposed to Mr. Tsvetanov in the holiday "If I and he take now to manage Sofia Airport and appoint us Mr. Moskovski, without doing anything, simply by staying there 35 years, Sofia airport will have 165 million more than if given on concession. We're just gonna watch Sophia from the airport. And we'll probably make less bellies, Mr. Tsvetanov, the...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u68	You, if you make bellies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u69	No, you! [[Radio and lines in GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Next question, we are talking about a national security site: what costs are foreseen in the estimated value of the concession based on the commitment of the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO? There are generals here, National Security Committee. Under our NATO agreement, NATO forces, NATO personnel, NATO contractors under contract use airports in the Republic of Bulgaria without paying the relevant fees, levies, duties, claims or duties, but with an obligation to pay at a reasonable price the requested and provided services. Under which document will the concessionaire be granted access to classified information concerning military activities, respectively defence of the country, as Sofia Airport is a strategic object of national security? Who will run the airport during war and crisis? The justification shall only treat airport security and control in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act. It's not about the other thing. Again, those people from Serbia in Belgrade, when they were giving themselves the airport, put in their documentation a requirement for the number of passengers, namely: 2024. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, s 19 million, 2040. 15 million. There's no such thing in our paperwork! That's why I said that if Mr. Tsvetanov and I stood up, we could run our own airport without raising any passengers. We don't have a requirement! We don't want these people to do anything! We want them to give us $15 million, make a terminal on the tenth year, which is not clear where. The minister told me on the south side, but which south... is unclear! [[Radio.]] He also told me about the second track. You told me they were making a second track. However, they will decide whether to do so. What if they decide not to?! But that's what the coworkers will be talking about. Dear colleagues, I ask Mr. Moskovski once again: when will the analysis of the International Financial Consultant be provided to the MPs? Minister, we've been waiting for you for two weeks! Please, today, if this decision does not pass, at least inform the Bulgarian public on the basis of what decisions? Because also in the concessional conditions, colleagues, but this will probably be spoken by other colleagues, I ask if there is a possibility to grant the concession, Mr. Minister? Is there any possibility that the concessionaire could give it to another person? On this concession? Or should the lender take away his concession rights? So now we give it to one guy, he takes a loan from another guy, and after 10 years it turns out that the concessionaire isn't the first firm, it's someone else? [[Heckling]] No! I ask: is this in the concession? Please answer, Mr. Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here's your cue!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I am glad that we are finally talking about motives, because until that day we did not comment on motives. We were obviously looking at motives for an old procedure, and at least today you've read the paperwork, which is okay. I'm unpleasantly surprised by the way you interpret numbers. At the end of the day, it's about investments. In the opinion of the importer were presented facts that the trend in the development of Sofia airport is positive. But in the end, in order to answer Sofia airport to these challenges, investment needs to be made. The state obviously can't make $1 billion. 200 million. lv. and invest in the next 10 years, and this is one of the conditions of the concession 200 million. lv. without VAT investments, terminal 3 and any other accompanying infrastructures necessary. With regard to the advance payment, the amount of EUR 550 million in advance. Sofia Airport has no way of generating these funds and giving them to the state budget, so the numbers are obviously in favor of the concession deal. And when were you sincere? When you gave the winning airports Varna and Burgas a concession, or now that the concession at the airport is a bad thing? Why didn't you give reasons when the Bulgarian Navy was being sold or the national carrier of Balkan? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Another line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My line is about what we're talking about numbers and numbers. Colleagues, I am slightly confused because all the figures and values you have expressed are in support of Mr. Moskovski and Mr. Borisov's government. There is sustainable development, the indicators are very good, the airport is increasing, the airport is profiting, which talks about good governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u74	So let's give it away!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u75	$900 million has been invested. After promising to invest a billion and over a billion leva in the next 10 years, I think this is good. I can congratulate Mr. Moskovski and Mr. Borisov's government that they really give the concession at Sofia Airport for management, which guarantees an economic instrument that guarantees sustainable development in the coming years. I would also like to make a line about this. No one has said that the state cannot rule. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No such thing has been said. I've been to the Transport Commission, too. The other thing you've gone wrong about is that you're wrong about selling a concession, which is a significant difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the presentation of colleagues we have heard a few basic things: we are talking, we are worried, it is possible, it is not possible to happen, data from 2016, staff and so on. First, it becomes clear from the document that five years the staff will not be touched. After that, stop talking about selling, because if your goal is one way or another to disturb people and society, there is no point. We're talking about selling and talking about 47 years. However, when we talk about concession fee, we talk about 35 years. A few more things: it can reduce the load. Do you really think someone will come, invest so much money to reduce the load at the airport, or will they come one way or another to stop it? This isn't serious. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] About the subway being made there and the work being done. Well, it's a social policy of the state. What does this have to do with the airport? [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're trying to insinuate. The main question after all the speeches I have heard so far is: are you saying that the procedure is being done in the dark, are you saying that something is not familiar? Are you saying that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank are institutions that we cannot trust? Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. It's a hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start backwards with my colleague Tanev. Although I haven't talked about the workers or the subway, but if you've decided, I'll answer you, you pick up my ball. Yeah, it's written down that five years should be saved, but it doesn't say how much. At the moment, 2300 people are working at Sofia Airport. Until the concession is given, 300 may remain and they can be maintained for five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u80	It could be 3,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u81	Why is it not recorded in the documentation: to record not less than 2,000 people was, colleagues, by looking at the social issue? There's no such thing! How much is not clear to be preserved?! The collective employment contract expires September next year, so... In other things, Mr. Tanev, about the subway and about anything else, I'm not going to answer you because they're untenable. Yeah, I'm making a difference between selling, reassigning and concession. I make a very good difference. In one thing, you get money, and in the other thing, you give it away and someone else gets it. That's what you do, and 47 years, whoever says it's not a handout, a sale, it's just that I don't think they want to look at it... [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] Mr. Gurnevsky, we're not going to be offended because I have a microphone and I'm going to be heard by the whole room, and you're from space? Let's not yell at each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u82	Mr. Gurnevsky, you have the right to speak. Mr. Svilensky, do not engage in dialogue. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u83	You're right, here you come, you know the line so I can answer you. Mr. Hristov, a billion and 200 investments would be there. There would be, but they might not be, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u84	That's not true. It's in the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u85	I mean, who decided there had to be a third terminal? Who thought there should be a third terminal? How many passengers are there? Has anyone analyzed how many passengers it takes to have a third terminal? Guys, do you know who the third terminal is? Let's say this thing. The third terminal will be painting the VIP. This is going to be the third terminal - sanning, changing the windows, painting the VIP, and this will be presented to you for the third terminal for a billion and 200. This will be presented. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is the terminal south of which Minister Moskovski is talking about. [[Replicates from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] No, it's not out of range. We're talking about the third terminal, right? That's what they're asking me. [[Reply from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] Not the government VIP, the other VIP. Not the government. It stays and you give it to him. [[Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Milushev, I think I've answered. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Statements? Mr. Valkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are witnessing an unprecedented case of looking at a concession in the National Assembly, a concession in the sector of transport. Since we are talking about transparency, honourable Members on the left, do you recall such a concession being considered in this National Assembly? I don't remember and I don't know. Therefore, in terms of transparency, I think that we do not need to talk anymore about how many concessions and privatisations you have made. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In principle, the concession is a purely management decision and in order to reach it, in order to decide on this management decision, we have two main directions. One is the Management Program, which is of the Political Party GERB for 2017 - 2020 and the other is the Government's Management Programme, which is 2018 - 2021. Secondly, the justification and motivation made on the basis of technical, legal, financial, environmental and social analysis, which were made by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as independent consultants. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm going to focus on the appropriateness of the concession because there's a lot of talk about it. Why is that the most important motive? The need for efficient maintenance and modernisation of transport infrastructure and attracting investment will lead to increased security and safety in the transport sector. This will allow for the best service levels at the airport, such as a world-class airport. The first and main benefit will be for the state. It will be economic and financial. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. plus I want us to be exact in our words, not 500 million, as we've been told before. On annual concession fees, the minimum amount is 15 million. BGN, or 10% of the total revenue; from the payment of taxes, the principal profit tax and value added tax; from investments in public government property, the minimum threshold is 600 million. lv. plus VAT, from which the procedure will start, and by the tenth year of the concession, terminal three must be built, or the total estimated estimated value of the concession for 35 years is 6 billion. The Commission Seven hundred and fifty-five [[Applause from GERB.]] I want you to listen well to these numbers because these are the numbers for 35 years, not as we were told that this would be the concession if it was extended eventually. The other benefits are for airlines and passengers from investment in airport infrastructure, equipment and improvement of technology and safety of operation. This will lead to a reduction in passenger and cargo handling time, an increase in the level of safety of passengers and cargo and technological processes. And one benefit they're talking about, only with a reverse sign from the colleagues on the left. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that there is no need for State aid to distort competition and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States. And last but not least, for the business itself, fast and quality airport services, forming the airport as a modern business centre. What is international practice? The analysis of airport associations made in 2017 shows that in 2031 the number of passengers using aviation services in Europe will be doubled. It is no accident that most of the countries of the Old Continent are headed towards lasting dedication and private participation in the management of their largest airports. For the period 2010-2016 alone, this share has increased by 80%, and perhaps if we consider 2017 we will have a much higher percentage. The practice has shown in recent years that this is the best way to manage the airport. What is the normal standard practice of private participation in Europe? I would like to read to you the countries with private participation in airport management. 100% - Estonia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Monaco, Belgium, Hungary, Finland; 98% - Spain; 86% - Italy; 89% - England; 75% - the Netherlands; 65% - France and Denmark; 56% - Switzerland; 84% - Turkey. As countries with the lowest percentage are Russia and Ukraine, respectively 28 and 33%. Everywhere the practice in this direction is to attract a serious operator and investor to make investments for years to come, thus achieving two main benefits for the State. The first is that there is an investor who can take out and give this billion and 200 million, without VAT, I say once again, for the development of transport infrastructure, which is essential and necessary to be a world-class airport. It is then necessary to operate effectively with all this infrastructure in order to be able to recover these funds. Last but not least, one of the extremely important benefits for the State is that the risk that is for the State of operating work and the money that is put into construction is borne exclusively by the concessionaire, i.e. the State is taken out of that risk. This is extremely important, ladies and gentlemen. What do we have here? If, on this basis, the reasons that BSP colleagues have extracted and imported to the National Assembly, I think we cannot compare at all, since these reasons were taken from a previous concession more than a year ago, they did not even bother to change them. In my opinion, this is a direct copy of these motives and they do not hold up in any of the directions they have used them for. However, now, gentlemen, we have a whole new procedure, with brand new parameters, with brand new financial and economic dimensions. I believe the motives you recorded are, to say the least, untenable. From another point of view, always in BSP it is said that you are about preserving the management and control of the state over the enterprise, while at the same time you have allowed yourself not to give a concession, but to sell the Bulgarian Navy, I am talking about the Bulgarian River Fleet, I am talking about the Bulgarian River Fleet. Didn't the state then have any interest in these enterprises?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u88	Six hundred million!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u89	Wasn't there any interest in keeping jobs in these businesses? [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Two other deals for the airports in Burgas and Varna, which are referred to when they are committed to concession, were profitable. Then what were you looking at? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Who told you they weren't winning? Check it out. Either when you're in power and you have to do privatization or sell or concession, it's a good thing and something good for the state, and when someone else has to do it, it's a bad thing. I think that's untenable. This is bordering on political perversion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague, you are speculating. You're talking about six billion, but that's turnover, not profit. A simple account: if it is committed to a concession of 2 billion. One hundred and fifty million, if not paid in, two billion. 300 million, i.e. the Bulgarian state is at a minus by about 150 million. Here, this is the bill and you're talking about selling. I agree that this is not a sale because the sale is a whole profit, and it's just a donation. You will remain in history as Kostov, who sold BGA Balkan and you donated Sofia airport. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Yankov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u93	You can extend the parliamentary group's time, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Valkov, I take a position through the procedure to stop with this point of reference of the airport Burgas and the airport of Varna. The concession procedure for the selection of airport operators at Varna Airport and Burgas Airport begins with Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg. During the government of Sergey Stanishev, 2006, there was a ruling of the court following a court proceeding against a complaint by a participant. Then the final contract was signed during the completion of the procedure. Do you know when? Check, and the difference between the concession at the two airports and the offered airport Sofia is that the two airports had a screaming need for investments to be made quickly to ease the service of passengers through Varna Airport and Burgas Airport. And now you're offering the tenth year to have investments. This is how Plovdiv Airport is concessionated after State investments and after a terminal for passenger service. Now you suggest the same thing. The difference between the concession of the two airports Burgas and Varna, and the offered concessions from you is in this.. ready only for operation and at the airport Varna and Burgas........................................................................................ You can see both airports working right now. I say this as an employee of Varna Airport and Deputy Director in this period. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Kirilov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Valkov, in my opinion you correctly qualified the opposition colleagues' approach, but you neglected to remind them of a legendary case and I wish the opposition colleagues would bear in mind this legendary case when commenting on concessions and the Law on concessions at all. It's about the concession contract for the highway.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u96	What does that have to do with anything?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u97	You guys remember this contract? As you well analyze here the terms of this treaty, which is under a brand new European law, my request is to analyze that treaty as well. Compare that contract, concluded with the then Bulgarian Portuguese company. Recall your questions to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u98	That was the king!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u99	He was, the king, it is true, the king signed the treaty, but then your minister confirmed the procedure, honourable Members! Confirms procedure! Open the database and check what the European Commission has been thinking about this procedure. Remember there was an auction back then? Was there an auction? The European Commission then tells you that you do not have any procedure. I don't want to mention names around this company, but check your names, they're legendary names associated with your party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u101	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I'm taking procedure the way it is. Mr. Kirilov knows the rules very well. He sits there at the table, in front of him, reads it three times a day, six times to us, reads it to us, and he doesn't realize that a line is made when he disagrees with the person who says it. Mr. Valkov didn't talk about the Thracian highway, nor did he talk about the king, nor about the king's chief secretary, and you made a line about these things. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, please bring the discussion into the subject. The theme is Sofia Airport. The time of the parliamentary groups is limited. Let's talk about this topic, and whoever wants to talk about other topics, then...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u102	I understand, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you. It's a hole, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov, you are a lawyer and I think you are very well aware of the difference between concession and what has been done with the Bulgarian Navy, with Bulgarian river sailing and with Bulgarian river sailing. Okay, so what? In one case, privatization was carried out and you sold it, and now you want to rewrite this thing to us. No! We give it a concession and everything that will be done will remain for the state and not like you to sell and from there to go somewhere in existence. This is regarding your response. Regarding Mr. Iankov. He is right, really correctly followed the procedure for the concession of the two airports, but I had no claim regarding the concession of Burgas and Varna. I just said that when you are doing a kind of activity, a concession or privatization, you think it's good for the state, and when someone else is doing it, this thing is not good, it's bad. That's what's vicious about this case. Instead of debating how to make the procedure better, to have a debate with which to show where the weak points of the procedure are, we are having a debate at all to reject the way of governance through a concession, which I think is wrong. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The planned concession at Sofia airport is declared as a concession for construction and it is said that there will be construction of a new terminal and expansion of Terminal 2, as well as construction of a new runway. It is clear that the Ministry of Transport obliges the concessionaire to extend the airport to Sofia. For me, several questions remain to be hung in the air, which undoubtedly affect the citizens of Sofia, including those who do not use the airport services. It is the obligation of the concessionaire to draw up an EIA in the case of new construction. On the one hand, if the EIA is not approved, the concessionaire may be unable to fulfil the obligation under the concession contract. On the other hand, it could treat its stated obligation in the concession contract as a firm commitment of the State to receive a positive EIA and, if it does not receive it, condemn the State for missing benefits. There is such an example in our closest history, a few years ago with a concession for cement production in..Kremikovtsi, where the National Assembly then approved a serious amount with which to compensate the investor. In a nutshell, to explain it more clearly, it is obliged to build Terminal 3 and to make EIA. It is clear to me from now on what the environmental impact assessment will be. In this respect, it is extremely important for me to have a general plan for the development of the airport complex before granting the airport a concession. This is necessary, even more because the future development of the airport affects, according to conservative estimates, directly over 40 thousand residents of the districts of Hadzhi Dimitar............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Some estimates indicate that over-normal noise levels as a result of low-flying aeroplanes have been subjected to more than 235 thousand centenarians. As an almost permanent resident of the region of Suha River in Sofia over the past 35 years, I personally have direct observations on the serious noise they make. Unfortunately, the concession does not provide for any obligation for the concessionaire to assist the residents of at least the most affected areas by ensuring appropriate financing for the renovation of their homes in order to reduce their noise. Due to the lack of a new general plan for the development of the airport, for the creation of which there was plenty of time in the past years, Sofia Municipality, led by the majority of GERB, does not offer a complete scheme for the inclusion of the airport complex in the communication transport scheme of Sofia Municipality. It is not clear whether the airport will ever be connected, for example, to a high-speed rail connection, as has been done in a number of major European cities. The conclusion that we can make here, as we do on other occasions, is that obviously passenger transport is not a priority in the Transport Ministry policy. It should also be noted here that at the moment the transport connectivity of the nearest regions of the airport such as the neighborhoods The inhabitants of these areas are easier to walk to the airport because they cannot effectively use urban transport to travel from and to the airport. There's no such thing. The expansion of the airport, without being set by the State in a general plan for its development, could mean that in the future the airport complex could develop in such a direction that an even greater number of departing and landing planes would fly at a low altitude, as so far over the central urban areas, including the buildings of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, which undoubtedly poses a threat to national security for me, because the danger of accidents over the city certainly increases by increased traffic of increasingly heavy aircraft. No word shall be mentioned for the resolution of these issues under the conditions of concession. Putting their solution in the hands of the future concessionaire would be another refusal to make management decisions that affect the health and quality of the lives of the airport users, but above all to the residents and guests of Sofia. There is no way that responsibility for the development of critical infrastructure of the city can be transferred to private hands. Public governance of this development is absolutely mandatory not only because it concerns the health and life of Sofians, but because it concerns the development of the city and the transport flows in it and beyond. We speak on behalf of the citizens of Sofia, we strongly state: the Ministry of Transport and the mayor of Sofia to take over their... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u106	Who gives you the right to speak on behalf of the citizens of Sofia?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u107	If you want to replicate me, you can make a line. We state categorically that the Ministry of Transport and the mayor of Sofia must make their commitment to the development of the capital and to ensure the normal quality of life of the inhabitants of the city by drawing up a general plan at the airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u108	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Danchev, and I, as a citizen of Sofia, have a fundamental question for your speech as it did not become clear. So at the same time the airport is profitable, and the state must continue to develop it, and there must be more flights, but if they can not make noise and no airplanes. The two things don't add up, because without flying in and out of the airport, I don't see how it could have developed. You obviously want to return the airships. Unfortunately, this technology has remained behind in history. Secondly, you're talking about a threat to national security and so on because the planes were flying over the capital. By the way, we should note that there is a single capital over which the flight over a state institution is banned and this is Washington, D.C. Over all other capitals, over all state institutions, including Europe, including other countries, are permitted to fly airplanes over them. In this regard, I do not know unless you want to close the airspace at all over Sofia. This will solve both the sound problem and the flight problem and the problem with everything. At all, if we could close it down Sofia airport and move it somewhere else. [[Laughter, excitement and single applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Another line? Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Danchev, my line is regarding the noise you said there was no provision in the contract for the concessionaire to have any restrictions on this line. I think that's not the case for two reasons. The first is that in order to build the new facilities, the EIA must pass, which is a kind of protection in this direction. The second is that in 2012 a noise charge was introduced in the Civil Aviation Act, with which all the funds that are accumulated from this fee go only to noise-related events or harmful substances that are emitted during the landings or take-off of the aircraft. In this regard, the National Assembly has taken measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u112	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Danchev, will you use it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, it makes sense and I'll tell you how it fits. When there is a plan, it would be good to be a citizen of Sofia, as a representative from Sofia, to have wondered how many times a general plan or preparation was made for a new master plan at Sofia airport, what were the predictions and conclusions that the specialists had reached? This is the departure of the airport beyond the border of the Crossroads. This thing is not commented in the new concession. Therefore, these things you are talking about are done with a plan and are envisaged by experts and specialists. It would be nice if you read this thing. Regarding Mr. Valkov's line, I would like to say that it has already become clear what is the idea for this EIA. Terminal three will be there. And the EIA can only be positive and only positive in the way in which this is laid down in the concession. How to make noise measurements were you interested, Mr. Wolfe? You probably weren't interested because this thing also escaped the plan for building the city of Sofia, and the airport was deliberately removed from this plan in order to partially pass this assessment and consequently its impact on the citizens of Sofia. It would be good to know that there are a number of noise problems and mass complaints from the citizens of Sofia who live in these areas. I don't think they do it by accident. Several flights per night in the hours after 10:00, after 11:00 are flying low above the residential areas of Sofia. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u114	That's not true. There's one lawn and one takeoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u115	It's true, sir, it's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u116	Please don't get into any arguments, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u117	Mr. Chairman, I asked for the floor before Mr. Danchev, but you chose him, then and after Mr. Yordan Mladenov you won't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u118	Excuse me. I didn't notice you asked for the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u119	I won't be mad. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! As well as the Commission, we did not support the proposed draft decision to end the actions for granting Sofia airport a concession. Now and in plenary, we will not support it. Listening to the debate, I am extremely pleased that this debate has been received and colleagues have tried with information and with all these figures that they shared here, before the National Assembly. However, we have to say to a large extent that these figures are predictable, supposedly. Whether for 35 years, whether 47, whether they will work exactly the same way in one direction or the other, we only guess. And wouldn't this infrastructure for 35 years, if it remained entirely state responsibility, remain state property, need renovation? Won't she need to be maintained? She's not gonna take any credit. I don't think that's gonna happen. My greater concern is that a tool as important as the concession, which is used and will be used by all governments, is subject to doubts and is filled with negativity. Ajeba, if you see the concession, it's something negative, something bad, or there's an extremely smell of corruption when it comes to concession. No, since the public interest is protected in a concession, this concession is good and must be supported. Here the issue is to protect public interest. To bring the concession into question as an instrument of doubt, I consider it a mistake that we will make, on the one hand. On the other hand, BDZ has already been mentioned and this is our main motive. In the 2017 budget procedure, my colleagues and I from the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why? Because we witnessed that exactly two weeks ago the Council of Ministers granted 104 million for the delays that were paid. Does it matter where these funds come from? They belong to the taxpayers and they will be paid. The question is, where do you get it? I will only quote, in fact, recall that rather, the European Commission has approved State aid or assistance to BDZ. 449 thousand. lv. We had written that down as help. It would have helped to upgrade the rolling stock to pay those delays that have now been paid anyway. The state has no option to escape this thing, she'll pay for it. I don't think there's a way to not do that. Then we asked: Transport and BDZ sector, not only railway transport, are they a priority for European Bulgaria, or are they not a priority? We didn't get an answer. The majority didn't back us up then. However, this is extremely important. We're constantly talking about the Paris Agreement, about reducing the greenhouse effect, about burning gases. What are we doing in this direction? Nothing! Railway transport is important, as the most secure, as environmentally clean and accessible. For a large part of Bulgarian citizens it is the only option for transport and for movement. We did not actually support this thing, and today we are trying to say that this investment in BDZ will actually be a mistake and is untenable. We don't accept that motive! We then suggested that investments be made in the so-called Sea To Sea Corridor from sea to sea at the amount of 114 million. 551,000. lv. This was for this corridor and to restore some of the consequences of the crash in Hitrino. Have we forgotten this moment? Victims were in Hitrino, victims we see at the crossings every day. Do we share that these areas need to be renovated, modernised, have faster trains and, most importantly, make sure they are safe, save lives? I guess we share. In fact, if we have to attack something, we will deny it exactly. We don't deny what we offered back then. We stand behind it and believe that the sector must develop and be dealt with responsibly. Thank you for your attention, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Any lines to Mr. Letifov? I can't see. Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will introduce you to a few questions, which I hope the Minister will answer about the documentation for the concession at Sofia airport and, in particular, the unclear rules for its conduct. Under the conditions for documentation of the concession at Sofia airport, the participant should have operational experience as an element of the technical capability requirements. In order to demonstrate operational experience, it is required that the participant has operated at least one international airport with at least 10 million passengers per year during the period starting from 1 January 2013 to date. Operating experience should be demonstrated through an aerodrome operator which, according to the documentation, means one of the following: the participant or, in this case, a consortium, a member of the consortium, or a third party that meets the requirements for operational experience. It is also stated in the documentation that, in order to avoid any doubt, the expression "to have operated at the airport' means the operation of an airport by participating in the share capital of a legal person; by means of a consortium performing such a service; or by means of a contract of operation and management. This criterion is considered to be fulfilled without taking into account the procedure for the shareholding held by the concessionaire, the special purpose entity or participation in the consortium. In this way, the requirement for operating experience of the concession holder is allowed only to be formally fulfilled in the concession procedure and for the purposes of selecting the concession holder and after the conclusion of the concession contract. It is inappropriate to give priority to economic and not strategic investors. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that there is no need for State aid to distort competition and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States and affect trade between Member States. In the case of a consortium participant, the requirement is that one of the consortium members is an airport operator. The member of the consortium designated as an airport operator must hold at least 20% of the company capital, the voting shares of the concessionaire by the fifth year from the start of the concession. The airport operator is allowed to be a third party. In demonstrating an operational experience requirement with an airport operator, a third party shall only join the concession contract, once again having only a guarantee function. According to the documentation in each case, the requirements concerning the experience in operation and management of airports must be satisfied by the airport operator. At first reading, the requirements proving technical abilities seem very high. However, if we look at them in detail, there are many loopholes to circumvent them. In proving the financial opportunities required in the competition, there is also great freedom. For example, instead of presenting audit financial statements, it may present declarations of participation from countries where audit financial statements are not required. Second, requirements regarding the guarantee of participants and the enforcement guarantee. The guarantee for participants of 2 million EUR should be an irrevocable and unconditional bank guarantee on a request issued in favour of the beneficiary concession, by a first-class bank, with a credit rating of at least BBB, determined by Guarantee for the implementation of construction activities: cover 10% of the estimated value of future construction activities for the relevant construction period and is issued by an eligible bank. For the purposes of the documentation, a bank or other financial institution regulated by regulatory authorities within the European Union, Switzerland or the United Kingdom after Brexit shall mean a credit rating for long-term unsecured funding which is not more than two rating grades or divisions lower than the credit rating of Bulgaria. Here is the question: what is this bank, which will have twice lower credit rating than Bulgaria? Third, criteria for evaluation of the tender and award. Offers will receive an overall assessment and ranking based on the assessment of the financial proposal and the technical proposal with the corresponding weights: 55% for a financial proposal and 45% for a technical proposal. The technical proposal shall assess individual components thereof. Those key assessment criteria, e.g. functionality, proposals, investment programme, quality assurance, international attractiveness of the programmes and others, allow for subjective assessment in the assessment. Fourth, the construction of a new runway and a new terminal. According to the minimum technical requirements within five years after the start of the concession, a study should be carried out to build an additional runway. The construction of an additional runway is provided as an option depending on the results of the study and is not bound by a time limit for the construction of the track. As regards the construction of a new Terminal 3 it is intended to be opened up to 10 years from the start date of the concession. It is very possible for one of the candidates to develop the technical proposal and how they will build a new runway. Based on this his promise to get the highest score, then on the basis of the analyses up to the fifth year not to build one. The obligation to build a new runway is conditional. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. As an estimate of airport charges, the charges charged to the current airport operator under its tariff may be indicated. For the first year of the concession period, the current structure of the fees is intended to be maintained. This requirement is limited and conditions are created after the first year to significantly increase the amount of airport charges compared to current levels. The review of the concession contract shows that it is possible after signing the concession contract, the terms of the concession contract can be changed repeatedly under unclear criteria, why is this necessary, albeit with the consent of the concession? This also calls into question whether the procedure carried out is under clear rules. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u122	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Member, my reply is to your presentation of the conditions that you have read. I want you to compare the terms you read with those I'm going to read to you in a moment. Because there were calls from the hall, I explain the position of Asen Gagauzov and BSP regarding the concession contract of the highway. During the election campaign, the highway deal was used by the opposition to attack the ruling NDSV. After the elections, however, the leading party of BSP lacks MPs to form an independent government and so on. It is so far that the new Minister of MRRB Asen Gagauzov says that he will reconsider the contract and then begins to claim that there is nothing unfavorable about it. Then Sergei Stanishev, Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u124	Mr. Kirilov, excuse me! If you're comparing the two contracts, do it now makes sense as a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u125	Yeah, I'm on my way to the comparison. Lack of tender or competition in the choice of concessionaire which does not allow for maximum good conditions and prices to be achieved. According to Transparentity, without borders, research has shown that the construction of the highway through concession would not be profitable due to insufficient traffic. Money will be lost free of charge from the European Union for this project. A monopoly is created. [[Noise and lines.]] The choice of concessionaire is in violation of the Law on concessions, which you specifically amend. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u126	Your time is up, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Another line? I won't. Mr. Mladenov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Kirilov, at first I thought the line you gave me to discuss may be after the meeting, but I think it's right to say. I think you were the head of an office during the NDSV. [[Replications by National Representative Daniel Kirilov]] and then from this party you were also a municipal councillor in Sofia Municipality. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's not forget these things! And here you didn't answer a few things: First, will the third terminal be built on this track? Secondly, who will be the one with the main shares, or perhaps at a later stage another company will be added, and many other questions that I asked you if you listened carefully. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Statements? Mr. Gurnevsky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I was provoked by Mr. Yankov's statement. I don't see him. He presented himself as the Deputy Director of the airport and said Plovdiv that almost the state had made repairs at the airport and now gave it a concession, i.e. to serve the future concessionaire. The truth is quite different! Some heroes from the time of the transition in the form of a Swiss company "Talbot" in which five Bulgarian soldiers were hiding, had taken part in the Plovdiv airport and became so that the airport worked and the red comrades embezzled the profits. [[Applause from GERB.]] And so that we can stop this obvious theft... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's connected! Now I will talk about Plovdiv Airport and Sofia Airport because they are both declared concession. Things are connected. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you replicate from the hall, I forgive you. I was fascinated by the thin bills you did for everything under contracts and I was wondering where you were these 20 years during privatisation with these bills to value how much your party stole from this country as property? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why didn't you value Technoimpex and say Comrade Ninova, now from profit...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u130	Mr. Gurnevsky, can you connect things with Sofia Airport? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u131	...give for 100 children with disabilities, give for 100 goats noise, give for 100 sheep without... You want us to give, don't you? You're just taking it! [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u132	Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u133	When I asked these questions, Mr. Svilensky, I was expelled from the SDS, and your leader was rewarded with a whole trading company as a loyal servant of the SDS. [[Applause from GERB.]] Now, for the concessions, seriously. As former director of Plovdiv Airport, 2001. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , since then have been discussed [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , then I was expelled. They've been discussed... Listen to me! The concessions for Plovdiv Airport and Sofia Airport are discussed. All international discussions, all specialists in this area, because there were lecturers who do not understand any of this activity, are of the opinion that the only form of development, for the effectiveness of the two airports, they are related, the Sofia and Plovdiv are related under the law in force then and the Ordinance, is concession, and it is with serious players in this sector. Here you do the accounts: 2 billion now "2 billion" if there is a concession and if there is no concession. But those 3 billion, or 4 that will be built in this 35-year period?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u134	Read them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u135	We're reading them! And most importantly, those customers, those destinations with which the beneficiary comes, are the most important. Plovdiv Airport works three months a year when Pamporovo works. What about the other nine months? Therefore, it is necessary for a concessionaire to make cargo terminals to come home with its.. I am talking about the two airports connected, to come home with its destinations and customers, as well as with the passenger terminals. To develop them to such an extent when Sofia airport has fog and is closed, the nearest airport is Plovdiv. This is also true in the opposite direction for flights, for goods, for citizens. All in this sector on an international scale are of the opinion that the purest form, the most secure for the state is the concession. After 35 years you have developed destinations and two world-famous airports with your customers, already created as relationships, and this is state-owned. Mr. Zarkov, you won't have any concerns about national security either, because the law is extremely state-owned and there can't land an airplane without permission from the state. There's an RVD that runs flights from one to the other... [[Noise and lines.]] You can't! And the new track they build will also be exclusive state property and this guarantees national security. You don't know the matter! You are talking about Terminal 3 - whether there will be, will there not be in Sofia? I don't know, Minister, if there will be. If the concessionaire comes, I'm sure there'll be Terminal 3. Hundred percent! If the concessionaire doesn't come, there's another option for Terminal 3. This is if the Socialist Party ever comes to power and the other young people start fleeing Bulgaria. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u136	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gurnevski, you commented on the sale of Plovdiv airport, rather about the attempt for a deal at Plovdiv airport years ago. But I want to take you back to Sofia Airport. Since it was mentioned here how the airport should be behind the ring arc, to be honest, 1947 Sofia's main airport was behind the ring arc, namely Bozhurishte Airport. However, unfortunately, someone sold Bozhurishte Airport and now there is nowhere else to be found. And no one can tell how Bozhurishte Airport was sold. There were attempts by GERB to form a committee of inquiry, even in the 42nd National Assembly it was formed, but then BSP refused to even listen to the report how Bozhurishte Airport was sold, and now they are talking about Sofia Airport. Let them say how they sold Bozhurishte Airport! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u138	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Another line? Will you use the right to the back, Mr. Gurnevsky? No. Thank you. Mr. Velkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u139	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to lead the meeting so that no conditions are created for outbursts of emotion and uncontrolled party propaganda. I mean, of course, not colleague Gazhev, but Mr. Gurnevsky. Of course, Mr. Chairman, the elk is exclusive government property, where no one can land and take off without the state. Yesterday he landed and took off without the state plane, a five-seat private plane for your information. Mr. Chairman, when we talk about subjects of national security, the question is not, Mr. Gurnevsky, in the concession. Concession is a good thing. We're talking about the concessionaire. Ten years ago, Boston Harbor was given by the United States of America to a concession. There are two companies left in two risk countries in the Middle East. They didn't give it to them for national security reasons. Both air transport and airport take place under Decree No 181 If a company comes to a country that is not European, it can turn it into a door to Europe and then it will not need visa requests. Understand this thing! The owner makes the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u140	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, we have really broken the subject down to its bottom with regard to the concession at Sofia Airport. The fact is that there are many ambiguities, the fact is that there are many vague, inaccurate things about the money the state will receive and the benefit for the Bulgarian citizens. There is one aspect that colleagues have hinted here several times, namely, what impact will this have on the national security of the country? He is right Mr. Velkov, who said that according to Decree No 181 this is part of the national infrastructure related to the security of the state. It is part of European security at this airport. What's going on? In the midst of our presidency, we had an extremely serious precedent a whole plane passed by without being checked out. Yesterday, Mr. Velkov said, "A plane took off, it didn't land, it took off." Only a year ago there was captured an entire human trafficking channel when the state ruled it! We have repeatedly requested the resignation of the Minister of Interior on this matter. What's going on? Today we are served at the table that this airport should be given to a private concessionaire. What is the guarantee that once this concessionaire enters this airport, this thing will not become even more serious? There won't be a single smuggling nest, these people coming in from the Middle East and wanting to get to the European Union unhindered, what happened last year and the D.A. is currently investigating? We have asked Minister Moskovski questions on this topic: how is the safe entry of EU citizens with all the checks provided that we want to enter Schengen and insist on Schengen, firstly, entering the air borders?! Is this the sign to our European partners that we are going to give, giving this airport a concession to whom? The previous term was commented on a Turkish firm. Now there's talk of a Turkish firm again. You know what that means, don't you? That, if a Turkish company enters, Mr Erdogana no longer needs to comment at all that he wants visas from the European Union to stop issuing them, they will enter freely. It's the truth! I'd like to see fellow Patriots vote on this subject. The issue here really concerns the national security of the country, and the only one who can guarantee this national security is the country. Because national security is also included in the theme, the amounts that will enter the country, in the budget, because they are spent on other accounts, on other items in the state budget. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's the truth. Come to your senses, colleagues! Mr. Minister, stop this concession because it will damage the security of Bulgaria and will forever cut off our way into Schengen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I think we're going a little bit to speculate about who landed and who took off. To remind you that years ago... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you my cue, but I remembered the plane that landed in the Red Square, so let me get this... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u143	Wouldn't the Minister be interested?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u144	Are there any lines? I won't. The next statement is from Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Much is speculated today on the topic of granting Sofia airport a concession and I even hear some allegations from colleagues on the left that Border Police and Customs will be granted a concession, which is absolutely bordering on false claims, not to tell honest lies. Either you're not on the subject, or you're just abusing some kind of fear. Your main criticisms are on the transparency of the procedure and I merely remind you who are the consultants of the so prepared Project for granting Sofia airport a concession. These are: the World Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. If you have a claim to transparency and their competence, please state them from this tribune and let us proceed in the debate on the substance. Speaking of transparency of the procedure, I will bring you back to some years when mass privatization in Bulgaria was under full force. And to remind you colleagues that concession and privatisation are two different things, because you concession understand it as a distention, and on the contrary, to return you that privatisation is a suspension. You may ask some colleagues from your side of the Chamber, in particular, when a state asset such as .Technoimpex, had millions of levs in the account, or did it not have millions of levs in it? Did he have millions of assets, or didn't have what they were paid for and how the Bulgarian citizens were compensated during this privatisation and how their interest was protected? Also to ask about the Burgas Saltworks when they were privatized: what did the Bulgarian citizens get against the privatisation of the Burgas Saltworks? Should I also ask about the factory for spare parts for agricultural activity in Tutrakan, which has been cut into scrap and people are fired?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u146	Mr. Ivanov, get to the point. We're talking about the airport, compare them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u147	He's on the subject. Let them say what happened, does it exist?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u148	Mr. President, in the topic of transparency from the procedure and protection of the interest of Bulgarian citizens, I believe that this is it. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Answer me: when did you protect the Bulgarian interest and with what transparent procedures did you conduct these privatisations? And we are talking about a concession of a company for which obvious investment commitments are made and the maintenance of labour and the increase in the pay of workers in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Lalo Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u150	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! My line, starting to compare in finance, has one method of assessment with comparison, and to ask the data about Belgrade a airport with 20% less fee, and the concession fee will be twice as much. Do you think the concession is profitable, and do you think it is not better to review it and do a new analysis?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov? Would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u152	Mr. Kirilov, thank you for making such a line, but it still does not rest on real facts and is not complete. When we talk about the procedure, especially in Belgrade, as far as I am aware, and as far as I am aware, we are only talking about the initial result of the Once again you are playing with information that no one can have in advance, you are already drawing general conclusions. This is not based on sound logic, Mr. Kirilov, and I don't think you could have gotten that line, but thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Procedure? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the only motive is already and you have not given any substantial concession, I suggest the Minister come out and explain what is happening and protect this deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u155	I don't see the procedure here, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u156	The procedure is to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u157	The Minister can take the floor whenever he decides. Maybe we should continue with the speeches? Are there any other statements? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Apparently, the Minister doesn't want to get involved before our time is up, so we don't have to ask him any further questions about his speech. I just want to ask what courage you are going through, Mr. Minister, to a procedure for concessionation at Sofia airport, provided that you have not completed the concession with Plovdiv yet, not to mention that today had to be signed and you may be facing a failure there and still insist on continuing with another concession, which is also not known how it will end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Mr. Svilenski, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, you started talking and you were afraid of the Minister and... Tell me what happened to this procedure in Plovdiv, why is it not over? You said: you want as Plovdiv, Sofia will do the same and you sat there. Please explain the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u162	Thank you. I did not want to distract the conversations with Plovdiv, so I did so briefly, but in the case of the interest shown I just want to ask: Minister, you are aware that today the concession was to be signed in Plovdiv and it did not sign. What are we doing? The first one's gone, are we gonna give it to the second one? Is this going to be the policy you are currently making with the concession at Sofia Airport? You're talking here about hiring international consultants. You didn't hire international consultants. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank have only reviewed your concession documents. For each concession then you must have an international consultant to help you conduct it, who should guide you, who, as it is said, will apologise to say it in Bulgarian, because this is how we negotiate, to translate from our Neanderthal into the international language in which people need to understand what we want from them. And that's a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u163	Apologize right now! How are you not ashamed to call the Bulgarian language Neanderthal?! Apologize! Apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u164	You know very well at the moment that the failure that emerges in Plovdiv is the result of the lack of such a consultant. You, among other things, know very well that this procedure, which you have currently started with Sofia Airport, if it is not conducted in the way it should be conducted, however very large, international investors are interested, you will fail it again. Therefore, I call on you: withdraw this concession, let us sit down, let us understand what this is about. Let Bulgarian citizens be convinced that you are not taking another step in the wrong direction and that you really want to develop air transport, you want to develop rail transport, but in the interests of people, not in the interests of companies. And that when we talk about Sofia airport, it is very important to emphasise that the elements of national security cannot be given on concession. Something I remember that was with Minister Nenchev when he wanted to give concession to the sky of Bulgaria. Be a statesman! I believe that you have the desire in Bulgaria to develop transport and that you have taken up this position and act as Minister, but do it not only, I say again, in the interests of small, future investments to protect some kind of transport, but in the interests of the entire transport system. Including, I'm not going into the toll system, because there are contradictions there, too, that exist. Be consistent in your policy, be focused on the Bulgarian interests and withdraw the concession! Withdraw it because I am very worried that it will go the way of the concession in Plovdiv. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to thank everyone who supports this procedure. I'll try to convince those who don't support her that it's the right thing to do. Europe is the most developed market for private sector participation in airport infrastructure management and the share of private participation in airport infrastructure has increased by 80% from 2010 to 2016. Of all the 28 countries in Europe, I am talking about their headquarters airports so that we do not speculate on the rates of I don't know where you get the reference. This is owned by airports until 2016. [[shows]] , at the World Association of Airports. It is, of course, up-to-date by 2018, in favour of our thesis, but here you can clearly see the distribution of airport management in Europe. Note that the ten airports in the capitals of the countries not managed through this mechanism are countries where there is no traffic, such as the Baltics, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, or countries which are extremely rich and have no problem developing and maintaining airports, such as Luxembourg and Monaco. We're not a country of this type. Here's your distribution. [[shows]] in concessions up to 20 years, from 20 to 50 years and over 50 years. In one case you have 33.7% to 20 years; 56.1% from 20 to 50 years; 3.1% over 50 years. Of course, there are also countries in Europe, but they are not members of the European Union, but the approach is the same. I don't know if I have time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u166	You have plenty of time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u167	...to go out for a very short moment outside the issue of the concession at Sofia Airport and explain why our approach is such to public operators in different sectors? Here I claim that you have made this mistake perhaps not intentionally, because it is not bad when in the years you have liberalized the markets in the individual transport and communications sectors, but when you have done so without restructuring the public operators and put them in a competitive environment with private companies where they are restrictive in such a way that they cannot fulfil their obligations in this competitive environment, you have practically put them in such a condition that they will always have difficulties in the future and very difficult to deal with this market. I'll give you an example right away. In 2005 you liberalized the market in heavy goods rail transport. What's going on? You're letting the private business into this market by law. The State-owned company BDZ must compete with them. Yes, only when the BDZ Cargo Service has to buy a locomotive or repair something, it does a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, and it is at least three months and is sorry for more than a year. During that time, the private operator goes to the store and buys what he needs - parts, aggregates or whatever, and BDZ must compete during that time with the private operator, standing in logs for a year and not being able to carry out their duties. Why did you not think that public operators should be restructuring so that they could compete in the market? On top of that, you leave them with debts that, by calculating them in the cost of the service, cannot be competitive. This has happened with the Bulgarian Post Office. This has happened, by the way, with Sofia Airport in its part. In 2008, you liberalized the service. When you have released private operators, we are currently suffering damage because the private operator has no commitment to collective agreements, there is floating working hours, flexible working hours. He tells his workers: tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will come for two hours, for four hours, for five hours of work, depending on the flights they have to serve. The ground operator sofia airport, fixed eight hours of working hours, fuel bonuses, dress slips, eyeglass coupons, food slips to the workers and they cannot offer the competitor an offer to private operators. You did the same work in the Bulgarian Post Office. In 2008, Parliament adopted a Law liberalising the universal postal service market. You release private operators on this market without a gram of restructuring the Bulgarian Post Office, and the better option then was to sell all state operators, to privatise them, otherwise you put them in conditions in which they perish, because by law they are restrictive by the state so that they cannot respond to the competition of private companies. I'm going back to Sofia Airport. As I said, first of all, this is the policy we follow. We have very clearly signed how we will develop and modernise transport infrastructure. In railway infrastructure and subway, we mainly use the Structural Funds. For the roads, you know that so far they are also involved in the investment processes of the Structural Funds, and when they enter the system, they will start financing themselves. Airports and ports are, firstly, very difficult to finance in this way by the State, by the European Commission and by the directives, because these are revenue-generating types of infrastructure which are considered to be able to finance their activities from the revenues they receive. That's what we wrote in our program. Firstly, we apply an absolutely normal and standard European airport infrastructure management practice. Secondly, if you were so worried that we would give Sofia airport a concession, that is, we will start such a procedure, in the election program of GERB and the management program of GERB, it is written very clearly and we have thus appeared in elections. I will read you: in the Programme for Government Management and the Party GERB, among the main priorities are the effective maintenance, modernisation and development of transport infrastructure, attracting investment; in priority No 46 "Instruction of investment and professional management of transport infrastructure; in order No 185 "Development of transport infrastructure sites, through the mechanisms of public-private partnership and concessions as such, as Measure 712 is directly indicated the granting of concession to Sofia airport. What do you want now?! Lying to our constituents that we won't run the program, assuming that people have read and supported us in elections because of this program? Thirdly, the need for investment. The state cannot make investments. Once again, there must be a long procedure for state aid. Mr. Svilenski, we have the agreement of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to provide you with all analyses, without financial and economic analysis. Their motive not to provide you with these analyses is that they use an internal methodology with which they work and do not wish that this methodology is likely to become available to consultants that you will use. So you will be provided with the analyses, without financial and economic. For the years of concession, please be correct! They've been recorded for 35 years. Any options for 46, 47 or 48 years, which you are quoting, are things that are in no way recorded anywhere. Just because the Law allows it doesn't mean you have to manipulate public opinion in this way. You are extremely incorrect in comparing Belgrade's indicators and the starting indicators from which the concession begins here. You compare a final result obtained after a completed procedure with starting indicators from which a competition starts in Bulgaria. How can you compare the two things?! They had nothing to do with it. Wait till the race is over and then we'll compare them. However, you are very profitable and somehow I do not know why you miss to note that in Belgrade only 83% of the indicators of a achieved concession go to the airport, the remaining 17% there are private shareholders. Check it out! There are minority shareholders there. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why are you manipulating revenue when you say they're going to the airport? As far as I'm concerned, only 400 million of the down payment goes to the airport, and everything else goes to minority shareholders. The annual payments shall then be distributed in the same way. Don't speculate and announce numbers that aren't! To Mr. Iankov. I mean, the investments of Varna and Burgas were not made immediately. They were made on the seventh and eighth years, Mr. Yankov. These are documents that can be compared. Regarding the numbers you give as an example as a cumulative effect in the concession, I do not know where and what do you think? I'm telling you honestly! I graduated from math school and then studied finance. For the past 20 years, Sofia airport has paid the state as a dividend of BGN 173 million, another 20 million to put it.. Let's make it 350, 400 million. What billions do you think I don't understand?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, according to the concession, the revenues for the state are approximately 2 billion from the concession fees only, plus the advance payment. How did you think the State would get if it was managed as a public airport operator, receiving a dividend?! Tell me, where do these billions come from that you think they come from?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where'd you guys find them? I've considered them real in the last 20 years what was paid as a dividend and I'm putting you in more. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] What I said in the Transport Commission as a replica is that the historical state has proved that it is not a good owner. Don't twist my words! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u168	Mr. Svilensky, please don't replicate from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u169	So I said the historical state has proved that it is not a good owner at Sofia airport. I'll tell you right away, but you're not telling me why none of you said that the airport paid 70 million damages last year during your management? This is the so-called Mac/ADMAK case with a Kuwaiti investment fund. Who stopped the contracts, who stopped the construction when the Kuwaiti made that investment to pay the bill?! That's what Sofia Airport paid last year. Seventy-seven million! Can you guarantee that the state will never allow such damage to be caused, and in the years to come, it will never pay such penalties?! This risk through the concession disappears. Colleagues, please understand that you are denying an absolutely normal economic practice throughout the world. Even as I left the Council of Ministers, I talked to Kiro Ananiev, the man, you know, is an expert in the Ministry of Finance for many years. He said: "He, Todor Zhivkov, was more progressive than they were. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Applause by GERB.)]] You're really going through some stuff. To tell you the truth, it probably bothers you that in your own circles, I have spoken with many colleagues, they are okay with the implementation of concessions. I don't know why this aggression against something that is an absolutely normal economic instrument and mechanism? I have explained to you that because of your short-sightedness, when you have liberalized the markets, you have put all state operators in poor condition. We are trying extremely hard to keep them normal in a competitive environment. They're limited by a lot of things, and on top of that, they have a lot of debts. What is the argument that we want to help each other through the revenue from the potential procedure to heal the Bulgarian State Railways?! Why? I'm surprised at this thing, too. We have succeeded in those years in which we managed to melt their debt of 850 million has now remained a hundred and several million, and, of course, it has been transformed as debt from the state budget. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": "To no more BDZ..."."]] On top of that, you can hear lines: You ruined BDZ! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u170	Colleagues, please! Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u171	Today the Council of Ministers has passed a decision which will ensure that the shortage of capital transfers will be provided as a commitment by the state and we will start a procedure for new trains in a few days. So, colleagues, it is extremely incorrect to present things in this way. Not to mention that I will not go to this extreme to explain: you have given concessions, so we give. It's not like that. We use this economic instrument because it is correct, reasonable. It ensures sustainability of transport infrastructure projects, sustainable development for years to come. Why is it a problem to ensure sustainable development by ensuring the state interest for 35 years? Why? Of course analysis is in place, which will be done, whether or not there will be a second runway. About the masterplan. The one we use, we get it from you. In this masterplan there is, I will quote you, it is up to 2019 plus, so it is up to date. You know that in these procedures the investor has full rights to require changes to the masterplan. Clearly, when the state has obliged someone to invest over a billion and 200 by procedure, it will let them invest in the way that there will be a return. What is this nonsense: tell me the coordinates where this terminal will be or that terminal?! Well, that's where the investor's return will be best. There is a legal mechanism to require an amendment or supplement of the master plan. Passes through all state institutions plus the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and is either approved or not approved or corrected. These are absolutely standard normal practices. Regarding the other lie, which is treated as being left behind by the previous procedure, two Turkish companies. This is one of the largest banks in Europe. This is the London office, an official report, I am talking about the previous procedure, which has been terminated, where one, two, three, four, five, six companies, among which I will not quote, will tell you the countries: Germany, Britain, France, Switzerland, Turkey, one, and Hong Kong. Where did you see two Turkish companies? Where did you see them? I'll give this to you later. The official report is from one of the largest European banks with written confirmation that these would have participated. Where did you see these two Turkish companies? I will not become a lawyer for the Turks, but if you decide to pick on them through Sofia Airport, do not do so because there are two Turkish banks with legal licenses in Bulgaria that work. Why don't you attack them? Isn't that national security? Why are you experimenting through a standard economic procedure? This is an absolute civilian airport. Cut the crap about national security and I don't know what. Everything is secured and protected! It's completely secure! When NATO requirements are met, the orders of the Ministry of Defence shall be implemented. Absolutely everything. On top of that, the concession is a procedure in which everything built remains for the State. Who gives what to whom? Why are you saying things that aren't true? And very well-meaning, Mr. Zarkov. You apply the Law for Supplement to the Law on concessions and you say: "No concessions shall be awarded for the activities, services, premises of commercial companies included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 of the Privatization and Privatization Control Act. You're referring to the most likely forbidden list. I really do say to you, change it, for it is not right. First, the concession at Sofia airport is in the form of concession for construction. So here you forgot to write: activities, services and objects. Second, a concession is granted to public-owned entities. Commercial companies do not have a single asset which can be granted at a concession. I mean, there's a purely technical error in what you did. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria."]] Okay, I'm just commenting on it as a topic to clear and clear the debate. Really, we are fulfilling our programme, fulfilling our commitments that guarantee sustainable development of transport infrastructure. I see no reason to escalate with such aggression and negativity to try to discredit any good subject that is absolutely transparent. By the way, Mr. Svilensky, take out the transcripts, I've offered you several times to give yourself observers on the team that prepares the concession. Why didn't you? I proposed to you in the Transport Commission, I said: "Mr. Svilenski, give observers, if you have any doubts, let them stay on the team where the procedure is being prepared. " There are witnesses, there are colleagues from the Transport Commission. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, I've appreciated that you have qualities and that's why I'm offering. Thank you and I hope you support the concession, it's a good thing. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u172	Thank you, dear Minister. Procedure in the manner of conduct. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure in the manner of conduct is related to the way the debate went. Of course, technically you had the right to give the minister the floor after the debate was over. My question is: did you win from this, first, Parliament and the debate? Because, in my opinion, what Mr. Minister had to say had to be said at the beginning so it could be discussed. He, by the way, said a lot of important things that I personally disagree with, such as the role of privatisation and concession during those 30 years. Yes, Minister, a lot of wrong things have been done over the past 30 years, and that's why the state is not here right now. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] And that's why we find ourselves in the situation when we lack a quality state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u174	Mr. Kutev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u175	And since colleagues from GERB are nervous because now once again, Mr. Chairman, you will do something that we have already seen, we have been talking for 20 years about how BGA Balkan was sold, now you are doing the same step.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u176	Mr. Kutev, please stick to the procedure of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u177	That's what I do. I stick to the procedure in the manner of conduct, because you, Mr. Chairman, are now personally one of the people who relieve the minister and the government of making a key mistake. Key for Bulgaria! How do you do it? In fact, you are withdrawing the debate from the National Assembly. You allowed him to say all this neoliberal crap about me. I apologize for the definition that I strongly disagree with. You have not given me the opportunity to oppose them within the parliament where it belongs. The result of the whole thing is that Mr. Moskovski, who is now trying to get out of the hall in protest, will enter the same way as Ivan Kostov in the annals of history, where he belongs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u178	Mr. Kutev, I think you've abused my patience too much. Thank you anyway. Let's move on to the vote. [[(Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: Personal ……]] You have no right to explain yourself, you can check the protocols, and I have already announced a voting procedure. I vote on the draft decision to end the concession actions at Sofia Airport with No 854 02-37, submitted by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The draft decision was presented by MP Krum Zarkov. Vote 161 MPs: 59 against 95 abstentions 7. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] There will be no interruption. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONNECTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF MEDICAL SISTERES, ACHES AND ASSOCIATED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS, No 854-01-46, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 June 2018. Mrs. Daritkova, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment and Supplement Bill of the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 854-01-46, submitted by Dr. Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 28 June 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 854-01-46, submitted by Dr. Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Ministers of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, NGOs and branch organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova. In his exhibition Dr. Daritkova briefed the audience about the history of the idea of creating responsible dental organizations and assistant pharmacists. These medical professions have already established their organizations.. Union of Dentists in Bulgaria, which is a non-governmental organization, as well as Association of Bachelor Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria. Dr. Daritkova noted that it is important that the professions that are regulated and those of dental technicians and assistant pharmacists are such in Bulgaria to have their word organization to enable self-regulation, quality control and control of the activities they perform. It is important to establish registers for the relevant terms, which will facilitate communication with the different structures in the healthcare system. At the same time, in no way is the functioning of the other agreeable organisations affected by the other relationships that concern the educational and qualification stages that the relevant specialists must undergo. The decision to create separate thought organizations of dental technicians and assistant pharmacists is based on lengthy conversations and mostly as a result of consensus. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov. It takes the view that the Ministry is adopting this new approach, which is proposed by the bill, namely those professions to have separate consensus organisations, because their subject of activity, their professions, the way they are implemented in practice, is different from the other professions with professional care. Mrs. Milka Vasileva, Chairman of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, Dr. Ivan Madzharov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Medical Association, Prof. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, Dr. Nikolay Sharkov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Dental Union, Mr. Ivan Berov, President of the Association of Dentists in Bulgaria, Mrs. Lilyana Petrova, Chairman of the National Association of Bachelor Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria, and Mr. Pavel Vuchkov, Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Bachelor Pharmaceuticals. Everyone spoke their principled support under the bill. Attitudes on the presented bill also took members of the Committee on Health. They also expressed support, noting that separate texts of the bill need to be refined between first and second votes. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 854-01-46, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u180	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. An importer's opinion will be expressed and protected again by Dr. Daniela Daritkova. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the history of the possibility of creating a word organization of assistant pharmacists and dentists began in 2005, when the word organization of healthcare professionals was established, which brings together a number of regulated healthcare professions in the Health Care Department. Then, unfortunately, the legislator has missed these two professional directions and in all the years since the functioning of the various laws for word organizations we have held a number of talks and have had debates about what mechanism these two professions regulated in Bulgaria can create their word organization to be legally regulated. The fact is that the representatives of these two professional directions are sufficiently active and proactive because they, despite the absence of legislation, have managed to self-organise something that is positive and will be extremely useful for the practical realization of the legislative change that we have made. During the course of these discussions different options were conducted and discussed. It was decided that in relation to the long-standing functioning of the Association of Healthcare Professionals, midwives and associated medical professionals, as established in 2005, it is unacceptable that these two new directions, which concern quite different activities, namely in the field of Pharmacy and Dental Medicine, should be associated with them. That is why we have undertaken this legislative technique with my colleagues to create two separate thinking organisations that function on the same principles, in parallel with the word organization of healthcare professionals. I believe that this will enable all regulatoryly regulated issues relating to the functioning of these two terms, which concern precisely the possibility of self-regulation, self-control, quality control, the creation of registers. This will be extremely useful both for communication and relationship with the other thought organizations and for the healthcare system itself, because the most important function of a word organization is to be able to control the quality of the services provided from the relevant medical direction, and all this is in the interests of the Bulgarian patients, in the interests of the Bulgarian society. I would like to emphasise that we in this bill do not change in any way the professional growth and educational qualification of these two directions. Because there were such concerns and doubts. They may pursue a medical profession after acquiring a higher education with an educational-qualification degree of professional Bachelor in the professional field of health care and their rights at this stage do not have national representation. I think this bill will solve this problem. On the other hand, I think it will also be extremely useful for the relationship with the other structures and bodies in the healthcare system in Bulgaria to have such regulated thinking organizations of dentists and assistant pharmacists, because then we will have medical registers, we will have sufficient representativeness and opportunity when it comes to solving issues related to the quality of the services they provide and with the regulations of these two directions, communication with state institutions and the non-governmental sector to be regulated. I would like to stress that we have also received the consent of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals, who accept this mechanism of regulating these two professional directions. I believe that in time between first and second readings we will be able to take into account all the legal and technical notes made by the various organizations and the Ministry of Health in order to obtain really a law that will enable the two professional directions to create their respective organizations in the interests of better quality of medical care in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u182	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? First statement, stated by Dr. Naydenova. Here you are, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u183	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals solves the problem of dental technicians and assistant pharmacists with regard to: control of their activities, establishment of a national register, maintenance of their qualifications and upgrades, possibility of issuing permission to carry out activities, protection of their professional interests. At the same time, our proposed bill does not solve the issues of: how will personal data be protected in these registers, a definition of a responsible organisation and clarity in which word organization are health assistants or them just nobody wants them. Moreover, the Minister of Health is responsible for the overall health policy and at the same time only establishes the rules for good medical practice without having the opportunity to define the policy of professional qualifications. We generally adopt the proposed bill, and between first and second reading we reserve the right to some additions and editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u184	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 854-01-46, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2018. Vote 96 MPs: 94, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u185	Madam President, I ask for a procedure to extend the period for written proposals between the first and second reading of the newly adopted law to four weeks, i.e. the maximum permissible in our Rules of Procedure, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u186	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal to extend the maximum period of four weeks for proposals between the first and second votes. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u187	Madam President, please submit a procedure for voting on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The time limit for submitting written proposals between first and second readings of the first voting today of the Law on excises and tax warehouses shall be five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u188	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I shall put it to the vote, according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the CMS, the proposed procedural proposal for a period of time between the first and second readings under the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law Vote 104 MPs: 83 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. Who will present the report? Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u189	Madam President, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 854-01-55, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 20.06.2018, adopted on the first vote on 04.07.2018. The Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was amended and supplemented. There is a technical correction here: the Law for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u190	I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the name of the Law, which is: the Act for Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. They voted 106 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u191	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: To: Art. Yeah. (1) The sale of privately owned property and property owned by commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital or commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital shall be carried out through an electronic platform for the sale of property. (2) In the case of the sale of property - private government property other than those under para. 1, the district managers of the location of the property shall use the electronic platform under para. 1. (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation on the electronic platform for the sale of private government property and property owned by commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital or commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 per cent state participation in the capital.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u192	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. They voted 102 MPs: 77 against 11, 14 abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u193	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 9 a fourth sentence shall be created: In all cases the auction sale shall be carried out through the electronic platform under art. For, al. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u194	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 2. Vote 108 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u195	Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3. Here again there is technical editing: In § 3, Art. 6 is created in Chapter 6. 32d: Art. 32 years old. Specific obligations directly linked to the activity carried out by the privatized company, with the exception of the obligations to maintain its registered office, the subject of activity, investment and employment, cannot be attributed to the buyer for more than 5 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u196	Statements? Mr. Yachev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal according to art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly § 3 and § 4 in which the proposals of colleagues Alexandrov and Dimitrov are adopted are not to be subject to discussion and voting in the Chamber, as I think they are contrary to the scope and principles of the bill adopted in the first vote. The proposed draft basically deals with the provisions contained in Chapter 1 "General situations" and Chapter 5 "Information" related to the privatisation process and post-privatization control. The proposals of the two colleagues Alexandrov and Dimitrov refer to Chapter Six of the Privatization Methods. In addition, Mr. Dimitrov's proposal was withdrawn from him in writing. The two paragraphs generally propose specific privatisation commitments for buyers to be up to 5 years, to be valid for contracts already concluded. A reverse action here, you know it's non-constitutional, but beyond that, it's interesting, and who would serve such a type of correction? There's been no privatization deals for a long time. In fact, the proposals can be addressed hypothetically, I say, three major deals: the sale of "Bulgartabac" and "Boyana" cinema centre and "Bulgarian maritime fleet." In the case of the Bulgarian Navy, the privatisation commitments are 10 years old, i.e. they expire exclusively by the end of this year. The website of the Privatization Agency shows that investment clauses and employees have not been implemented for years, as well as the requirement to maintain the fleet's gross-register tonnage, i.e. its size. The Starfleet owner, the Domuschiev brothers, tried to cancel them through arbitration, but failed. According to the register of the Privatization Agency, the control over Bulgartabac is also not completed.. there are no periods and older commitments from two or three years ago, such as: the purchase of tobacco, remuneration and others. They are for five years and have expired in 2016, but have not been reported by the Agency as implemented. Separately, until 2021, the subject of activity must be maintained which is no longer valid for the holding. The third deal, this is Fighting Films New Image. The deal for the Fighting Film is from a long time ago 2006, but there is a commitment not to sell the land to the Cinema Centre for 20 years, even having a mortgage in favour of the state. We are talking here about the public interest in these two amendments. I am going back to my original proposal that the proposals of colleagues Alexandrov and Dimitrov should not be put to the vote because they are outside the scope and principles of the bill already adopted at the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u198	Thank you. Mr. Yachev, this is the hypothesis of art. 69, para. One, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, Because you have the right to propose a rejection, a postponement for the next sitting, but not to be put to the vote, we do not have that basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u199	For the next meeting, provided that they are in the general context.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u200	They are in the general context, but I must put your proposal to the vote anyway. Here they are, look, I'll give you art. 69, look. These are the options we have. [[The President Emil Hristov and the People's Representative Boris Yachev make a clarification.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u201	Under art. 69, para. 1, proposal 2 - postpone for the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u202	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Did you want a procedure, Mr. Kirilov, or do you want to express your opinion differently?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u203	Was that a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u204	No, that wasn't procedure. This was part of the statement in which Mr. Yachev proposed to postpone the next vote. For a reverse opinion, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure to give back an opinion on what has been proposed as a procedure. I think that it is impossible, in this case, to postpone the vote on the grounds that my colleague is talking about, as these are incompatible grounds, on the one hand. Secondly, both he and I are not members of the leading Commission that has discussed the Bill, and therefore its proposals cannot be assessed without debate without going into depth of the proposals whether they follow the logic and spirit of the proposal or are beyond these. I would say, as a non-member of the Commission, my reading of the Bill is that there is a connection, as the main proposals were related to the creation and introduction of a special method for implementing privatisation procedures. So, once a new method of privatisation and a new type of competition, such as the electronic platform for the sale of properties, makes sense in this context to discuss individual elements of the contracts resulting from this procedure. In addition, the leading Commission has allowed them, discussed them even more, notice, colleagues, on both paragraphs there is a positive opinion, that is, texts adopted by the Commission. For this reason, I would like to have a normal discussion of the Rules, so that each of us can, in accordance with the arguments of our fellow Members, form his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u206	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Boris Yachev, on the basis of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 2 to postpone the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: 9 against 25, 97 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Yachev, I am not subjecting the next paragraph simply because it is not in the order of discussion yet. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with the Appendix and the version of the text in Chapter Six by text of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 109, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u207	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u208	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 115 against 5, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u209	There is a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ The order of Art. 32b, para. Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 32c also applies to concluded privatisation contracts on which, at the date of entry into force of this law, no outstanding payments for penalties for defaults during the first five years of post-privatization obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u210	Thank you. This is where we will vote on the proposal of the National Representative Boris Yachev to postpone the next meeting of § 4, but little information, because by letter in................................................................................. No 854 04-111 of July 9th, National Representative Emil Dimitrov made a written proposal for a second vote on the bill. The same is supported by the committee responsible, which proposes that it become part of the Law as a new § 4 "the one which was presented to you. By letter No 854-00-53 of 16 July, the People's Representative Emil Dimitrov stated that he withdrew the proposal and suggested that the same should not be discussed and voted on in the second vote. It should be borne in mind that this withdrawal is not supported by the Commission and should be voted in this House. We will proceed to a vote in the following order. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Boris Yachev to postpone the vote for the next sitting. [[Replies from BSP for Bulgaria: "What do we vote on? "]] I have explained what we are voting on.. we are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Boris Yachev to postpone the vote for the next sitting. They voted 124 MPs: 17 against 19, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 with a text proposed by the Commission, based on the proposal made by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, who is currently... Procedure or statement on this text? Okay. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] I didn't call a vote. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, firstly, absolutely correctly in this case, you have given me the opportunity to speak, since we rejected my colleague Jachev's proposal to postpone the text, we should hold debates on the text proposed by the Commission. However, for completeness, we should note that last week, in a similar case in which you had a withdrawn proposal adopted by the Commission, it was not put to the vote. It is the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation on activities relating to oil and petroleum trade. I'm saying this for completeness in terms of procedure. As regards the specific provision, it provides for the retroactive effect of substantive legal rules in the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, which is unacceptable. This is contrary to fundamental principles laid down in the commercial and bond law for the transmission of the so-called reverse action of such norms. Moreover, we do not have in this provision a specific description of the consequences that will occur in this case, and instead of maintaining legal certainty, we lead to chaos and uncertainty in business turnover, and especially in terms of privatisation contracts. Next, we must note that the protection of public interest requires that this provision be rejected by the plenary. Otherwise, I believe that we will actually have private interests service, public interest will not be protected and legal certainty will be violated accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u212	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor first to make an editorial proposal with regard to the text, as adopted by the committee responsible, and the will of colleagues is evident, and systematically that § 4 should obtain the following form: ............................................ The order of Art. 32b, para. Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: Art. 32 (c) is actually referred to as Article 32 (c) (ii) and (iii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 32 years, which we accepted in the previous paragraph. Obviously this editorial wasn't in line, so I'm doing this as an editorial proposal. The second part of my speech concerns the relationship between the two provisions, which was adopted as § 3, and the one that we are currently commenting on. I would not agree that the norm we are discussing at this time regulates the retroactive effect of substantive legal provisions. In my opinion, there is no retroactive effect of substantive legal provisions, but regulation of relations in relation to welded relations. Since the question already decided in § 3 concerns the application of time limits, it would be appropriate to refer to the time limits and to comply with the existing relationships. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the provision that we comment on and propose to be § 4 contains additional requirements which concern welded relationships. If this provision does not have this content but does have another content, it means that two groups of contracts should arise: those for which there will be one post-privatization control period and those welded, which will remain with the old period. It is obvious that this will oppose those who are subject to the application of the relevant norm. In my opinion, the logic here is clear that there is no opposition between these two groups and those that will be formed subsequently and in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u215	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, my speech will only be one sentence. Is it true that only one of these deals is worth 56 million? lv.? [[Speak away from the microphones.]] The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u216	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Another line? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, I believe that we actually have the opposite effect. Yes, it may be caused by some very noble motive that we will align the legal regime for some and other privatisation transactions, but there is practically a direct reverse effect. For anyone who reads the wording of § 4 concerning art. Art. 32b, already art. 32 years, it's clear that we have a reverse action. It is explicitly recorded that it also applies to privatisation contracts concluded on which, at the date of entry into force of this law, no outstanding payments for penalties and so on, as the text is recorded. In this way, in my opinion, these two texts are directly serving only the privatizers of the Bulgarian Navy and possibly the buyers of the Bulgartabac and the New Studios respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u218	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members, whom you have replicated! Firstly, I will say the following: each Member of the National Assembly should know that the legal rules should not in any way relate to a case, a case or a relationship. The norms we adopt should refer to all legal entities that concern them. Specifically, I say to my colleague's question: I do not know, I do not know who is the circle of welded transactions, nor the transactions that you have commented on in one way or another. I think it's right not to know them. It is not good to bind our will in one way or another to the specific. Secondly, regarding the line of colleague Mitev. There is no reverse action, colleague Mitev, and there is a uniformity of the regime. I will give you the following example: if the applicant has entered into such a privatisation contract and the term for post-privatization control has been 10 years and these 10 years are still running, for example he is on the sixth or seventh year, the rule changes and the deadline requirement is for a 5-year period. You can see that a more relaxed regime is in place with the contract under way, which should, and you well know that we have a whole legal sector, such as criminal law, which, in a way, states: the new, more favourable regime is clearly applied as a lighter law in relation to all welded cases. Notice, I will repeat: there are additional conditions for the contract to be executed without penalties, without outstanding payments for five years of penalty. That is, in practice, the welded must be in an absolutely equal position with the newly emerging, with the one to be concluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u221	Honourable Members, we have witnessed in this National Assembly to vote laws by serving closely economic interests. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleague Kirilov, I really do not envy you the situation in which you are one week defending one thesis next week to defend another thesis. With my modest economic experience, it is very difficult to do this, but you have this experience, for which I welcome you. These changes that were proposed in this law, we can safely call them changes for the Domuschiev brothers. However, this is the least of the problems. These changes unlock a case about which, perhaps you, colleagues, do not know, a case related to the "Polymer" "Devnya," which awaits this decision, and a case against Bulgaria for 167 million. The Domuschiev brothers will see us as a very small problem. You can check it out! These changes will also unlock many other deals that none of us are suggesting right now. However, if you bury yourself as parliamentarians who have been here for a long time, you will think of such transactions that have been made over the years. I personally and the members of NFSB here in Parliament, from the group of the United People, we cannot agree that we have to serve economic interests in such a clear and ugly way, because until one hour ago we talked about three.4.5 million, which we have to put into the budget, we have been fighting for hours in the Budget Commission to protect the country's revenues and to resend them better to those in need, and at the moment with the heartless attitude and with the thumb, which you will put on the button, we give to oligarchy in Bulgaria tens and hundreds of millions of years. Colleagues, if you have a conscience and you are not as dependent as you claim on broadcasts and media, let's not remain indifferent to what is happening in this room, everyone put the knife first in your heart before putting the finger on the console and the button. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u222	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new § 4 with a text on a proposal from the Commission and the editorial amendments proposed by the people's representative Danail Kirilov on the text of the proposed § 4. They voted 125 MPs: for 93, against 32, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u223	Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev for § 3, who declares that he is withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u224	The unsupported offer he's withdrawing. Mr. Gazhev, please state your resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, I declare that I am withdrawing my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u226	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The proposal is not supported by the Commission and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u227	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. In Article 44, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 44 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: sale using the electronic platform under art. 3a, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control 2. In para. 2 is created sentence two: "In the sale the district governor uses the electronic platform under art. 3a, para. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of § 3, which becomes § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u229	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 6 and 7: ........................................................... In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. 107) in art. The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 all over the number s = 150 and the words = the highest and the number = 12 are replaced by the number = 100; the number = the arithmetic; and the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 100; the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 6 is replaced by the number = 1. 2. In para. The 6th number s is replaced by the 50th number, the words the highest shall be replaced by the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: For the obligations under para. 1 no security shall be lodged where traders and producers under para. 1 have fulfilled at the same time the following conditions for the current month: 1. to the 20th number do not have due and/or overdue liabilities to the fund; 2. have contributed up to the 25th number to the bank account of the fund the arithmetic value of the product of the price and/or the component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 and the amount of electricity sold by them to final customers for the preceding 6 months; 3. up to the 25th number have notified the Fund that they have contributed the funds under point 3. 2. 4. A new para is being created. 8. The Fund shall verify the fulfilment of the conditions under para. 7 and, in the event of default, inform the trader or producer concerned to submit the security under para. 3 within 7 days of the call. 5. Previously on AMC's... Paragraphs 8 and 9 become paras 8 and 9 respectively. 9 and 10. 6. The creation of para. 11: The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the § 7. Within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, traders and producers under art. 36g, para. 1 of the Energy Act, which 12 consecutive months before the entry into force of this law paid the price and/or the component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 of the Energy Act, presented to the Fund "Secure of the gas system" certificates for lack of obligations for a price obligation towards society, issued by the public supplier. In this case, art. 36g, para. 6 of the Energy Act, unless the conditions of art. 36g, para. 7 of the same law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Mr. Ivanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote the following procedure: extending the working time of today's plenary session until the adoption of a fifth item, namely: Draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of driving licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal to extend today's working day until a decision on item six is adopted. They voted 120 MPs: 106, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. In today's work day, we will also consider the next item on the agenda. Another request for procedure. Here you go. After that, Mr. Dobrev, I'll give you the floor too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure to change the votes of the previous § 4 because I have been confused, in the sense I voted for the vote, and I have refrained from making use of it as an abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u234	In the record, your voice was misinterpreted? Yeah, I get it. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to be very brief, since we have already extended working hours. I apologize in advance that we are amending the Energy Act with the Privatization Act. However, the changes that I and my fellow MPs have proposed, discussed with colleagues from the opposition, the overall position of the Energy Commission again is that we need urgent amendments to the Energy Act concerning a small but very important detail. You know that since 1 July this year the new model for liberalization of the electricity market has been working. We have transferred the so-called obligation to society from NEK, which until now has collected a commitment to society, to the Energy Security Fund. However, we have set requirements with the latest changes to the Law on very high collateral for traders so that they can participate in this liberalised market. After the start of the market on 1 July, it turned out that a large part of the traders could not meet these high requirements and criteria and thus could not comply with the Law. We have found ourselves in the hypothesis in which either a large part of the electricity traders in Bulgaria have to go bankrupt, or we have to consider whether we can ease the terms of the guarantees for them. Our proposal at the moment, to put it simply, is to ease the requirements for electricity traders in the country so that they can meet the conditions and have enough competition in this market. Otherwise, the market will remain with several big players, which is not in the interest of either business or consumers in the country. In essence, we reduce the guarantees from 150% to 100%, we take a different basis for calculating obligations to society. All changes, on the one hand, relieve the business, that is, reduce the administrative burden on them, and on the other hand,.. continue to ensure the financial stability of the Energy Security Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u236	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any speeches on the reported paragraphs 6 and 7 on the Commission report? I won't. - What's the line? I won't. We are going to vote on the texts of paragraphs 6 and 7, reported together. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The proposal for paragraphs 6 and 7 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u237	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 8. ................................................................................... Within one year of the promulgation of this law, the Council of Ministers shall: 1. adopt a regulation on the electronic platform for the sale of properties.. Private state ownership and property.. ownership of commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital or commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 percent state participation in capital; 2. aligns the regulations on the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u238	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the reported text for § 4, which becomes § 8 in the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: 77 against 17, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u239	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer under § 5, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u240	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. They voted 105 MPs: 88 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u241	Proposal by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... This law shall enter into force from its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of paragraphs 1, 2 and 5, which shall enter into force within one year of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u242	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 6 on the Commission's report. Vote 108 MPs: 88, against 17, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-55, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs. According to the decision taken, we move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF PROCEEDERS FROM CIVILS FOR THE LEARNING AND TESTING OF CANDIDATES FOR THE ACQUISIBILITY OF THE MANAGEMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I'm sorry. I'm to the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the examination of received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence The subject of training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence is of wide public interest. It is inextricably linked to road safety and is relevant for reducing road accidents. The road traffic participant is the first unit in the road safety chain. Notwithstanding the measures being implemented, the effectiveness of road safety policy is ultimately dependent on road users. Education, training and monitoring of the methodology for acquiring driving licence are therefore essential. The methodology for conducting driving licence examinations shall take into account the theoretical and practical skills of applicants. The purpose of the establishment of the Temporary Commission is to ensure transparency of the theoretical examination process and control of the practical examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a driving licence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I open the debate on the proposed solution. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Svilenski. You have a word to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I understand the urgency and complexity of the problem that we need to solve even in extra hours. I want to inform all of you that all these signals, all these complaints, all those letters that have been written, and which this committee must now examine, are not now. They are two, three years old from the 42nd, 43th Lotto, 44th National Assembly. All these signals and complaints have been submitted to the Committee on Corruption, the Committee on Transport, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, if you will. All the institutions are familiar. The question is: why hasn't anyone reacted? Now this committee that we're gonna make it, what's she gonna do? How exactly will she solve the problems of these complaints? You do understand that if this committee does its job, everyone along the chain from which the first complaint was launched by the Agency, by the Automobile Administration, with arrested, with released directors and then restored, there will be very severe sanctions to Mr. Minister who left, because there is literally concealment of violations there. If this committee succeeds, fine, but I am surprised why an extraordinary Commission must do these things, given that we have a Transport Commission that can deal with it, and that is part of its work. However, once you have decided, since the problem is really complicated and urgent, we will support this committee with the clear awareness that we will indeed seek and demand results from this committee. Score specific, result with specifically guilty persons! If we do not identify guilty persons, it will be another extraordinary Commission in which 13 or 15 MPs were involved in July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u246	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, would you like to introduce us to the Project of Solutions? I'm closing the debate. Please introduce us to the draft decision we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u247	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the examination of citizen alerts for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall set up a Temporary Commission for the consideration of citizen alerts for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of driving licence. 2. The temporary committee should be aware of all the facts and circumstances set out in alerts by citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a driving licence. 3. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the alerts examined. 4. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of one month. 5. The temporary committee shall be set up on a parite principle by a total of 15 MPs per three from each parliamentary group. I ask for a procedure, Mr President, to change this number: from five MPs, one from each parliamentary group. It's six. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: 1. the President; 2. Vice-President; 3. Four members. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u248	Five members? Mr. Ivanov, I don't understand. Five members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u249	And three members, yes, I'm sorry. Chairman, Vice-President and three members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u250	Yes, a total of five is the composition of the Commission, according to the proposal. Are there any speeches? We are going to vote on the text presented by Mr. Ivanov. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. In accordance with the vote just now, we should move on to completing the composition of the Commission, which must consist of a President, a Vice-President and three members. I expect proposals from each of the parliamentary groups for a Commissioner. Here you are, Mr. Mihovski, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group you will make a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, I propose Stanislav Ivanov as a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u252	Please, colleagues, from the other groups? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria I propose as a member of the Temporary Commission Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u254	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The other groups? Mr. Letifov, come in from the DPS group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose Ihsan Halil Hakku as a member of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u256	Thank you. Mr. Halil is the candidate of the DPS group. From "Volja" and "United Patriarchs" remained. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the.Volja "We are proposing as a member of the Temporary Commission Andon Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u258	Thank you. And from the United Patriarchs? Mr. Mihov gives me a sign he won't. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u259	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that, when voting on the composition of the Commission, the requirement that we have just voted for Vice-President, as the Commission has been cut in number, is no longer 15 members, but only five members and four members will be. I think this is more proper in view of the Commission's more operational work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u260	We must re-vote the decision we have already adopted for a change... [[Noise and lines.]] We're expecting another proposal. [[Heckling]] As it is not, we are going to vote on the proposals that have been made. [[Noise and lines.]] We're waiting to... Mr. Ivanov, what do we expect? [[(Noise and lines. It's a thrill. (Laughter)]] Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, to present the longest-awaited application. Please introduce her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u261	Mr. Atanas Stoyanov will represent the group of the United Patriarchs. [[Noise and lines.]] For a member...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u262	In fact, there have been five nominations for representatives of the parliamentary groups. There is no clear procedure for the election of the President. Mr. Ivanov, are the elected members to elect a chairman from among them or are we voting here? [[Noise and lines.]] Then I expect a proposal for a chairman... [[Loud noise and lines.]] It is not right to remain outside the authority of this House. Is there a proposal for the President of the Commission that we are forming? [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you for your initiative. We're listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP, I propose Mr. Stanislav Ivanov as Chairman. [[(Loud noise and lines. Invocations. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u264	Any other suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u265	A reverse proposal, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I believe that this committee must be taken over by the opposition. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They are our main corrective, and for this reason I propose Mr. Georgi Svilenski as Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u266	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u267	Dear Mr. Chairman, please pay attention to their responsibilities to the Members of the National Assembly. It's embarrassing what's happening here! There's a man out there who's starving. There's a protest. You're reacting with a committee. [[Noise and lines.]] You're responding with a committee. You have that right. Take responsibility and do the Commission if you want to do it as you have decided. If not, do not mock us, the MPs and the people who protest! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u268	Are there any other suggestions? There are no other proposals. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the debates that have taken place, I am taking a motion from my nomination as a member of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u270	Will the BSP Parliamentary Group propose another name for a Commissioner? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're saying you'll fill out the Commission? [[Replications. Invocations.]] Let us thus vote on it with an incomplete composition. [[Heckling]] Honourable Members of Parliament, I will put to the vote the nominations made for a composition of the Commission, they remain four, one nomination for Mr. Ivanov the President of the Commission, and a commitment by the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria that they will complete the composition of the Commission after its formation, albeit in incomplete composition. We are going to vote on the proposed members of the Commission: Mr. Halil, Mr. Donchev, Mr. Stoyanov and Mr. Ivanov, who we will then propose as President. Together, we are voting on the four nominations proposed by the parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS, the Volja Party and the United patriots. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's candidacy for President of the Commission. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. The proposal for the election of the President of the Commission has been adopted. For the procedure please, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u271	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fulfillment of the commitment we propose as a member of the newly created temporary committee Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-18.u272	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines.]] I ask for a little more patience, honourable Members. There was a proposal to fill the Commission's composition on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria. The proposal is for MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Mr. Ivan Valentinov Ivanov was elected a member of the newly formed Commission. We've run out of agendas for today. The next meeting is tomorrow, 19 July 2018, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
