ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Thanks for the help of colleagues on the left. There are two messages today. On 18 July 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 July 2018. No 820-00-20, a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2017 to 20 July 2018. An importer of the Report is the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. By order of the President of the National Assembly, the report is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. The report is also attached to Newsletter No 21, which is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 17 July 2018 the National Assembly received an Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Radio for 2017. The report was made available to the Committee on Culture and Media and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue to work on item one for Thursday: SELECTION OF COMMISSION MEMBERS FOR PUBLIC SUPERVISION AGAINST REGISTERED AUDITORS. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 27 June 2018. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on hearing the proposed candidates as members of the Commission on public oversight of registered auditors. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to allow Professor Ognian Simeonov to be admitted to the Chamber. Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors and candidates for members of the same committee Irena Mihailova, Vanya Doneva, Radoslav Yordanov and Stefan Belchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 150 MPs: 146, against 3, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite them in for presence in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance concerning the hearing of proposed candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors At an open meeting held on 12 July 2018 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors under Section IV of the rules of procedure adopted for proposing candidates for members of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (promise, SG No. ...), hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure'. Mrs. Evgenia Angelova, Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee, reminded the MPs the rules for the hearing of the four candidates - Vanya Doneva Georgieva, Irena Milcheva Mihailova, Radoslav Hristov Yordanov and Stefan Alexandrov Belchev, and noted that the documents presented by them, which are published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, meet the requirements of the Independent Financial Audit Act and should be allowed to be heard. The four applications were submitted in alphabetical order of the first names by the President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors "Professor Ognian Simeonov." Ms. Vanya Doneva Georgieva's candidacy was proposed by the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. Mr. Simeonov acquainted the MPs with the education, professional path and postgraduate qualifications of Mrs. Doneva, stressing that the latter has 33 years of professional experience in the field of financial audit and has been head of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors for the past 5 years. Mrs. Doneva has completed postgraduate qualifications for the "Expert Examiner of Fraud" and for the project manager.She holds a certificate.She is a member of the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria and an associate member of the Association of Certified Experts on Disclosure of Fraud. Ms. Irena Milcheva Mihailova's application was proposed by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Mr. Simeonov briefed the Commission on the education, professional path and the internationally recognised certificates of Mrs. Mihaylova, stressing that she has 24 years of professional experience in the field of internal audit. She has worked in the Unit for the Metodology of Accounting in the Management of Banking Supervision and in the Internal Audit Team of BNB. He is a member of the Committee of Internal Auditors of the European System of Central Banks. Mr. Radoslav Hristov Yordanov's candidacy was proposed by the Board of Directors of the Institute of Graduated Accountants after a selection by the General Assembly. Mr. Simeonov introduced the MPs to the education, the professional road and the internationally recognised certificate held by Mr. Yordanov, stressing that he had 22 years of professional experience in the field of financial audit. Mr. Yordanov currently works as a financial manager in the subsidiaries of a banking group and is a member of the board of directors in some of them. Mr. Stefan Alexandrov Belchev's candidacy was proposed by the Minister of Finance. Mr. Simeonov acquainted the Commission with the education, the professional route, the postgraduate qualifications and the scientific degree gained by Mr. Belchev - PhD in Economics with the scientific specialty of accounting, control and analysis of business. Prof. Simeonov emphasized that the candidate has 22 years of professional experience in the field of financial audit and is currently Director of the Directorate of Control and Internal Audit Methodology at the Ministry of Finance. In conclusion, all applicants have the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation to take up the role of a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. Following the submission of the applications, the personal presentation of the individual candidates and the presentation of their motivation for taking up the job was moved on. Colleagues, in the shorthand and in the report are detailed the speeches, I will present them in summary. In her exhibition Mrs. Vanya Doneva pointed out that she has accepted the proposal for a member of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors as a high assessment and natural continuation of its professional development. Its personal motivation to assume this responsibility is related to the belief that the Commission is entrusted with a very important function of supervision over an extremely socially responsible profession. Ms. Doneva declares her readiness to make every effort to make the decisions the Commission makes in the interests of conscientious auditors with good practices in order to remain so. In conclusion, Mrs. Doneva assured the Members of the National Assembly that if elected as Commissioner, she would continue to work responsibly, impartially and independently until now. At the beginning of her speech Mrs. Irena Mihailova expressed her willingness to support the preservation of the established successful and good practices imposed so far in the work of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors in its previous term. A major priority in its work will be to ensure a professional approach and to improve the Commission's relations with regulatory authorities to build constructive and effective cooperation between regulators, auditors and undertakings of the public interest. In conclusion, Ms. Mihailova pointed out that effective dialogue will facilitate the exchange of information between the parties by respecting the responsibilities of each of them in the audit process. In his presentation Mr. Radoslav Yordanov stressed that his entire work route is entirely related to accounting and independent financial audit, and from the very beginning of his work in Price Waterhouse Coopers took part in one of the biggest and most complex audit commitments. Mr. Yordanov assured the MPs that thanks to his professional experience he will quickly enter into the work of the Commission and will actively participate in the discussions and discussions on various issues and cases. In conclusion, he expressed his willingness to work towards maintaining good communication and constructive dialogue between the Institute of Graduated Accountants and the Commission. In his statement Mr. Stefan Belchev advocated that the new Act for Independent Financial Audit of November 2016, which directly implements the provisions of the amending Directive on mandatory financial audit and the Regulation for the mandatory financial audit of public-interest enterprises, gives clear and explicit signals to society and businesses for enhanced and effective control, although some use the term "supervisory" on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors. According to Mr. Belchev, the role of audit committees in undertakings of public interest, which are also supervised by the Commission, should not be forgotten. In conclusion, Mr. Belchev assured the MPs that he would make all professional efforts, experience and knowledge for a successful and dignified mandate of the Commission, which should be a mandate of continuity and upgrade of the authority of the audit profession in society. No questions were asked by the MPs to the candidates. Ms. Evgenia Angelova informed that no opinions and questions have been received from the persons under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the four candidates met the legal requirements for the appointment of a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired, are positive prerequisites for implementing the Commission's competent and responsible management for public oversight of registered auditors. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed applications of Vanya Doneva Georgieva, Irena Milcheva Mihaylova, Radoslav Hristov Yordanov and Stefan Alexandrov Belchev for four members of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors under Section V of the Rules of Procedure to which the draft decision for each candidate applies to this report. Should I read them?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. It's a good idea to introduce us to the four candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u6	Yeah, the solutions. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 73, para. 3 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED He elected Vanya Doneva Georgieva as a member of the Public Supervision Commission for the registered auditors for a term of 4 years. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 73, para. 3 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED She elected Irena Milcheva Mihailova as a member of the Public Supervision Commission for the registered auditors for a term of 4 years. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 73, para. 3 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED He elected Radoslav Hristov Yordanov as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors for a term of 4 years. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 73, para. 3 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED He elected Stefan Alexandrov Belchev as a member of the Public Supervision Commission for the registered auditors with a mandate of 4 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. My fellow Members, this was the Commission's report. The candidates were presented briefly by Mrs. Stoyanova. I open the debate on the proposals made. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? If not, we are going to vote on the nominations in accordance with the procedure. The decisions for the four candidates were read, so I'm not going to read them again. We are moving on to the first vote of the election of Vanya Doneva Georgieva as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. Vote 148 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the vote for the candidacy of Radoslav Hristov Yordanov as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. They voted 147 MPs: 146 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. The next application is by Stefan Alexandrov Belchev as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. Vote 150 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting on Irena Milcheva Mihailova's candidacy as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Congratulations to the chosen and successful work in their four-year mandate! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u8	Coming through. to the next item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACTUALIZE THE PROJECT FOR THE INVESITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF MULTIFUNCIONAL MODULIAL PATROL CARB FOR MILMANOMERS. First of all, we will get acquainted with the Defence Committee report. General Popov, come in, you have the floor to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u9	Dear Mr. President, I request a procedure for admission to the Chamber under this and the next point... Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, of General Botsev, Chief of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u10	Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on a proposal for General Botsev's admission to the Chamber before considering this point. Vote 118 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite General Botsev. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Defence on a draft decision of the National Assembly to adopt an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces" No 802-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 5 July 2018, the Defence Committee discussed a draft decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of an updated project for investment expenditure. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence; Mr. Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence; General Botsev, Chief of Defence; Rear Admiral Petev, Commander of the Navy, and Mr. Nalbantov. The project for investment expenditure was presented by Mr. Velichkov Deputy Minister of Defence. He recalled that by decision of the 43rd National Assembly of 2 June 2016, the Investment Expenditure Project for the acquisition of two multifunctional modular patrol ships was adopted, the implementation of which was terminated at the end of 2017, due to the lack of candidates for its implementation. In line with the recommendations of the report of the Temporary Parliamentary Committee for the Study of the Implementation of the Selection Procedure of a New Fighter, the Ministry of Defence established a Political-Military Steering Working Group to support the implementation of investment projects. The group has analysed the reasons for terminating the procedure for the acquisition of patrol ships. As a result, the current version of an updated investment cost project has been developed in which some of the identified weaknesses have been removed. Further, the word was given to Rear Admiral Mitko Petev, Commander of the Navy. He presented in detail the updated investment cost project and pointed out that re-arming with a new fighting technique has no alternative. It will contribute to overcoming the existing deficit of capabilities, to achieving the necessary interoperability of the Bulgarian Navy with the NATO member states, and the European Union and will ensure to a greater extent the performance of the tasks assigned to our naval forces. Counter Admiral Petev examined the following more important moments of the updated investment cost project: - the maximum estimated value of the project is increased to 984 million. lv. VAT, which takes into account the changes that occurred in the Value Added Tax Act of 1 January 2017; - two new options have been added to the acquisition option: purchase of a new defence product or licence production, and a combination of developing a new product and modification of existing one; - it is envisaged that multifunctional modular patrol ships will be completed with basic weapons and items of ship and with additional weapons and items of ship which are selective and will be included in the contract depending on the availability of funds; - new sections are included, such as the development of the national defence industrial base of the Republic of Bulgaria. Rear Admiral Petev pointed out that the deficiencies identified which led to the termination of the procedure at the end of 2017 were removed. According to him, the changes introduced will give greater realism and flexibility when negotiating the terms of the contract. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Kolyo Milev, Simeon Simeonov, Slavcho Velkov, Konstantin Popov, Plamen Manushev, Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Spas Panchev. Everyone expressed their support for the Investment Expenditure Project and their satisfaction with the broad consensus on such an important issue of national security as the modernization of the Bulgarian Army. Support was expressed for the project's deferred payment, which will mitigate financial burdens and the industrial co-operation requirements laid down. The overall finding was that the updated project was also good and flexible. In the discussion were asked supplementary questions regarding the risks for the implementation of the project; the parameters of the ship; the time limits for the conclusion of a contract; the currency in which the transaction will be paid; the provision of the necessary ammunition. Some of the speakers made recommendations related to the editing of some texts. Detailed and justified answers to the questions asked were given by Minister Karakachanov and his team. They indicated that there was no 100% guarantee for the conclusion of a contract, but the risks were carefully analysed and measures were taken to minimise them. The expected benefits of the industrial cooperation requirements have been explained in detail. It has been said that much of the recommendations will be reflected in the requests for proposals (RFP), which will be sent to potential contractors. After the debates were concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 19 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour of and without abstention, adopted the following opinion: supports the updated project for investment expenditure "Actributing a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces" and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to adopt an updated project for investment expenditure "Actributing a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces." No 802-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. General. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to adopt an updated investment expenditure project "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces', No 802-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated project for investment expenditure. The document with an importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Anatoly Velichkov. By Decision of the Forty-third National Assembly of 2 June 2016, the Investment Expenditure Project was adopted to acquire two multifunctional modular patrol ships for the Navy with an estimated maximum value of 820 million. lv. This version of an updated investment cost project (IRR) shall take into account the changes made to the VAT as of 1 January 2017. The main changes to the updated investment project relate to the maximum estimated value of the project being 984 million. lv. With VAT, such as the difference of 164 million. lv. in relation to the project for investment expenditure adopted by the National Assembly in 2016 (IPR) was allocated for payment in 2025 and 2026. Two new options for acquisition. The purchase of a new defence product or production by license and a combination of the development of a new product and modification of an existing one were added. The changing strategic security environment increases the requirements for the development of defence capabilities to be adequate to the new challenges. In this context, the defence ministry's efforts are aimed at maintaining modern and combatable forces to implement defence and security policy in line with NATO's defence planning and defence capabilities development process in the European Union. The launch of an investment project to acquire a multifunctional modular patrol ship will increase the capabilities of the Naval Forces to participate in maritime traffic monitoring and control operations, detain intruders and detect and identify nuclear, chemical and biological means, as well as to exchange information in real time by acquiring an anti-ship complex with a high distance of shooting and good opportunities to break through the means of anti-aircraft defence and radioelectronic fighting the opponent with the PIR, will increase the capabilities of the Naval Forces to combat a superior opponent of distances behind direct radar visibility. The activities covered by the Investment Expenditure Project are: delivery of two multifunctional modular patrol ships; delivery of an initial set of reserve tools and accessories, and spare parts, training of the crews of both vessels and integrated logistical support for a period of three years. On the basis of art. 22, para. 2, p. Article 11b and in conjunction with Article 11b 16, p. 7a of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has proposed to the National Assembly to accept the updated project for investment expenditure The draft decision is prepared on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Following the presentation and discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: with 16 votes for Supports an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a multi-functional modular patrol ship for the Naval Forces" and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision to adopt an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a multi-functional modular patrol ship for the Naval Forces" No 802-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Members of the Parliament, I will introduce you to the text of the Project Decision: Project! DECISION adopting an updated investment cost project "Actributing a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts an updated project for investment expenditure, which was adopted by Decision of the 43rd National Assembly of 2 June 2016 on a multi-functional modular patrol vessel for the Navy. (DV, No. 43 of 2016), as per the Annex. I open the debates on the draft decision of the National Assembly. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. General Botsev! The position of our parliamentary group seems to be based on three main factors that give BSP attitude on the subject. Firstly, the realization of the ultimate need to acquire new abilities, given the permanent loss of already built ones over the past 30 years, the imminent complete depletion of the life resources of many of our marine battle units and the deterioration of the external security environment, but most of all the understanding of the importance of this project of combatability, capacity and defense capabilities that we would have acquired in its realization. Secondly, it is extremely important that the amount of public financial resources that must be allocated to its implementation and rather its timing in a way that will not disrupt the financial stability of other social systems. Also, the possibility of this project being not only a cost but also an economic benefit instrument for Bulgaria, as it is practically an investment. Thirdly, in my opinion, it is an important factor in how far this project is and through it we will overcome technical backwardness with our partners, because this backwardness in recent years is beginning to look like a gap, especially in the Black Sea aquatory. You can see that the Russian Federation is building 34 battle units, Romania is building 6 new ships plus two small submarines, the Republic of Turkey is also building 12 corvettes, and so on. We will support this proposal by understanding that this gives the green light to start a conversation to specify the parameters of the contract. We would only approve the contract if there were not a large part of the concerns and threats posed by the investment expenditure project itself. And when we talk about concerns, I would be abstracted by some inaccuracies that I find in the Investment Expenditure Project. I would ignore perhaps some significant discrepancies, such as the fact that on page 8 of the Project it is indicated that four new ships are needed and in point. 3.3 "Necessary number of ships', 10 pages later it is written that you need a minimum of two. We will not be petty, but I would like to focus on several major concerns that I have about the implementation of the project. First of all, this is the corruption charge that this project carries, and this is not some whim of the BSP, related to the large amount of public financial resources that must be set aside, and the public sensitivity on these issues, and perhaps this concern is fed up by, I would call it, the turning behaviour of the current minister. Here I will quote a transcript from June 2, 2016, where he states:..I am in a hurry to build the two patrol ships. Public secret is which company is scheming that it will win the public procurement. Two questions arise quite clearly: the first, which required the change in the attitude to the Minister's project; and the far-reaching one, is what measures have been taken, how the Economic Cost Project is updated, so as to overcome the predestination of a possible winner, as I frankly admit that such measures do not see. My second concern relates to the fact that this project is perhaps the most detailed, saturated with the specific terminology of the Navy, but behind this terminology, I believe there is financial and time uncertainty in the scope of the Project. What do I mean? It's listed in section C. 3.10 &amp; 3.11 "Sustainability related to the realization of the Project" that ammunition, part of the armaments, cryptographic systems and others are outside the scope of the Project. In addition, it is not clear to me whether the funds will be sufficient for the so-called options of additional weapons and shipping products, that is, we face the risk of sharing 820 million, buying two ships, but not acquiring the necessary capabilities. My third main concern may be risk related. In the three investment expenditure projects that we have looked at so far, the risks are identical, as if, excuse the slang expression, are They are: lack of funds, change in the vision of the armed forces or delay in realization due to lack of money. I believe that there is no consideration here of a real risk that exists, namely that such a ship so far, such an analogue of such a ship does not exist. Such a platform with precisely those requirements that the Navy has has not been made. The company, which was selected as a contractor two years ago, has no experience in building such a ship and has no experience as an integrator of all systems that assimilate all components. This also puts the realization of this project at some risk, in my opinion. Of course, with these arguments we retain our doubts and reservations in terms of realization, but I repeat: we give the green light, led by the deep conviction in the extreme need to acquire abilities both for the Navy and for the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope all these doubts of mine end up being unfounded. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Vitanov's statement? Here you go. First line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vitanov, I am pleased with your personal and parliamentary group's position, because it is nationally responsible, you have demonstrated it in the first two projects and now, but I cannot agree with two of your statements which mutually exclude themselves. You said that you did not see in the new Project the mechanisms and changes to prevent Mr. Karakachanov's claim in 2016 that the project then predestined the winning company. And after just one sentence you said that this was the most detailed, best, best quality project of the three projects for modernization of the armed forces. This somehow goes into logical contradictions and I agree with the latter, but with the first I could not agree in any way, because if it is true that this is a professionally prepared, made and presented by Minister Karakachanov The project, which is behind the efforts of many experts in the Ministry and, above all, the work of the Navy and their commander, this cannot be true for your first statement. I don't agree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Vitanov, you have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Docent Mihov, you may have misinterpreted my words. I didn't say it was the best, on the contrary, I said it was the most detailed and saturated with the greatest terminology, but that doesn't make it the best. On the contrary, my doubt lies in the following. Although it's so detailedly written, it creates an uncertainty about financial and time. What do I mean? Maybe I didn't make myself clear. It is not clear that these ammunition, part of the weapons that is missing, the cryptographic systems when will be purchased, so that we can acquire the full range of capabilities. It is not clear what funds will be necessary for their purchase. I stand by my words, in fact these are not my words, but the words of the Deputy Prime Minister, who said in 2016 that this project predestined an artist. He is here and I would like and would like to answer what has changed in the Economic Expenditure Project so that we do not prejudge the performer this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, honourable General Botsev! I'm glad you finally got in last year's NCIS project. I will not dwell in detail on the abilities that he will give to the Navy, and they are not very large, as two patrol ships normally solve some of the tasks of the Navy, and especially of patrol activity. You know, these two ships are running out of resources very quickly when they're all gone who have to have them by state. At one point, when one is on duty, the other can be in plan or dock repair. Of course, the Navy as well as other types of armed forces have many problems at the moment and are mostly linked to the leakage of the resources of the ships we have. Most of them soon run out of their engines, some systems, even a reduction in crew personnel. However, I join the general opinion that we should support these projects and especially the Navy Project, as our Bulgarian Army should finally begin breathing. Along with the risks we have on the conclusion of the projects, we need to give the government, the Ministry of Defence and the National Assembly the opportunity to make these projects happen, as they lead with them to some kind of revival of the Bulgarian economy. Of course, there are many problems. We also have obligations under the anti-mining protection, the preparation and construction of mining enclosures whose abilities in our Navy are almost reduced. They also reduce the ability to convoy even for rescue operations by sea, even in NATO operations, because we have major problems with Belgian frigates, for which the projects did not happen until the end. Either way, this project is set to happen with industrial cooperation with our economy. If we do not support the opportunities for new funds to be placed in the ship's equipment systems, also to implement new innovations and new solutions, if you will, to enable our industry to carry out orders on ship's reserve parts and accessories and, above all, their logistical support for the next 35 years, we will achieve nothing. Risks are also that although it is limited until 2022. However, in Bulgaria governments and coalitions are often changed and other decisions are made, some are even opposed to the projects and the reason why there is a lack of funds, that there are other priorities, and anyway, the army goes to the background. Once again, society and the National Assembly are the ones who have to monitor these projects to really happen and not go to a dead end for various reasons, as has been happening so far. Again, we will support the Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. General. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? Mr. Minister, is it immediately or after the speech of the MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u23	After the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u24	I'll give you a chance, of course. That's your right. Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With many of the speakers before me, I agree. I won't say it again, but most of my colleagues in this room are not professional servicemen. I'll try a few simple sentences to explain. Some of our current ships are Soviet production, some of them Belgian frigates purchased second-hand. If we don't update them in ten years or a little longer, we'll be out of a fleet. That is why the consensus between all parties is also in this case everyone is exercising a state-of-the-art attitude, and that is why everyone, including us, is in favour of this project. It will really not burden any social systems, because all three projects will total 0.4% of gross domestic product, and the one for last year, given that it will increase in the coming years, i.e. the percentage for the three projects will become even smaller. The ship's prices are rising. A few years ago, we could have bought three or four ships with a similar amount, now because of the price hike, there are two. If we delay another five or six years, we may not have enough money to buy a ship. One comparison of what our neighbors are doing. Colleague Vitanov touched it, but I will only allow myself to expand it and quote duly: Romania is expected to acquire four multifunctional corvettes project "Sigma" up to two divisional sets of long-range coastal missile rocket complexes, as well as to modernise two frigates and three missile corvettes type "Tarantula." Intentions have also been made to acquire up to two small-type submarines........and so on. Our other neighbour, also a NATO member, Turkey, has ongoing projects for the construction of a universal landing ship, 12 corvettes type Miglem. Six submarines, Turkish promising models of SOM and Atmacha anti-ship missiles, providing a high maximum range of fire, are in different stages of testing. By fulfilling its commitment to increasing our abilities and the arrangements from Wales, our country is obliged as both responsible state-owned behaviour and as responsible allied behaviour to conduct the modernisation of its armed forces. We support the Project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines to the statement. Any other Members of Parliament wishing to take part in the deliberations? I don't see any requests. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mr. General! Of course, GERB's parliamentary group will also support this project for modernization of the Bulgarian armed forces, as several colleagues have already spoken about the status of the fleet. Of course, with the acquisition of these two ships we will not solve all the problems and all the challenges facing the fleet, but this is a very good step forward. Of course, it should be taken into account, as has been mentioned, that out of four planned, we will acquire two. Of course, this means that the frigates, which are currently armed in the Bulgarian army, must also be modernised. By making all these projects, we must not make certain mistakes that have been made in the past, such as in the acquisition of frigates in 2005, when forgetting some of their main components, namely the dock loading systems, which allowed long years for ships to make serious costs, because they had to work constantly to charge their batteries, and they spent considerable resources on the fleet. Specifically for the Investment Expenditure Project, which is of our attention today, it has been updated compared to the one adopted in 2016. At least in the part about its increase in value added tax, something which, by the way, had to be done with the three projects because of the changes in the VAT Act entered in early 2017. Furthermore, we are no longer talking about a modular patrol ship, as it was in the first option, but about a ship that will now have the main, even more, of all its necessary equipment, equipment and technical equipment at once with the acquisition and not as it was before at the first stage, second stage and third stage. The distance of navigation of ships is intended to be three thousand nautical miles and autonomy within seven days, which is fully adequate for the Black Sea aquatory. Of course, the lessons that the Ministry of Defence took from the procedure last year are there and the shortcomings have been removed, including in the adoption of offers in Bulgarian, and the adoption of offers in English is already foreseen. Here, Mr. Minister, I would like to draw attention to whether there should be a more unique approach between the various projects, so that there is no confusion, but the realization itself and the way in which the Ministry will choose to implement the project is extremely important, so that without unnecessary fantasies, with a great deal of pragmatism we can achieve the realization and acquisition of the ships with the participation of the Bulgarian business within a short period of time so that we can have a contract or at least a very advanced procedure so that we can not lose the funding provided by the government. After all, these three projects in their funding for over three and a half billion is a clear commitment of the government to the Bulgarian Army and to the need for its modernisation. You remember that, as early as the beginning of the year, a defence spending increase plan was adopted to 2%. With these projects, we're really starting out. Of course, they are not the panacea, they will not solve all the problems in the army, but it is a good start for the three types of armed forces to begin the modernization and replacement of the already old Soviet armaments. Not to mention that, as has been rightly noted, the projects themselves are designed not to burden the other systems that the government must finance, such as the social system, education, health care, so that the improvement of the Bulgarian economy can also be used. However, let us not forget the government's efforts to cope with the collection, with the lightening of the grey sector. All of this and most of the government's collections, of course, enables us to raise more money to go to the modernization of the army. Finally, I would like to call on the National Assembly to maintain its agreement as it was in the Commission, to congratulate the Bulgarian Socialist Party on the city in its position since 2016 and on a much more responsible attitude towards the modernization of the army than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other MPs you'd like? Mr. Velkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear General Botsev, Dear Chairman of the Commission! I would like, first of all, before I begin on the substance, to ask fellow Members who are speaking and having regard to them to be a little more clear in purely physical terms, because it is not heard in this House, but you are young people who have spoken so far. Secondly, colleagues, the next item will be about the state of defence and the armed forces. We had on this occasion a closed Commission meeting, which dealt with these issues mainly with the explicit condition that no information would come out of what was said at this closed meeting. Therefore, I ask my fellow Members, who will take account of and not deal with data which are subject to this closed sitting, especially with numbers, figures and so on. I believe that the Minister in this regard will support me, as will the President of the Commission. With regard to the Investment Expenditure Project for the Navy, I would like to say that we have an opinion in the Commission. It was expressed by Mr. Vitanov. I suppose that finally the Vice-President of the Commission and other colleagues will take a positive view. We believe that the implementation of the Project is a national priority, part of the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, and should be implemented. We believe that this is another step towards effective protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and participation in collective security. No doubt the project has its positives. I would say that it is perfected and developed compared to the one who, sadly, all of us have experienced this hard in the Commission, has been failed in practice as an idea. I'm gonna say a few things. The main changes are in the financial part. They're in a direction that he's putting extra pressure on, but it couldn't have happened any other way. There's a clear target, and that's good. New acquisition options have been outlined, i.e. a combination of developing a new product and modification of an already existing one. The project has its reasons, there are positive sides. However, despite the clearly stated intention of support, I cannot help but mention some things that concern me personally. I would be happy if the Minister would then address some of these issues in his speech, since I do not see Admiral Manushev. The opinion and position of the President of the Commission is clear First of all, I think, Mr. Minister and Mr. General Botsev, that some things could be thought of in the Project. This can happen on the move, as they are rather technical, but it depends on them, including strategic planning subsequently. In the stated intentions and objectives of the project is mentioned in two areas in terms of capabilities: combating symmetrical threats at sea, I believe, Mr. Minister, that some of them can be fixed very briefly, even in brackets. The protection of the national maritime space and critical infrastructure, and then we have again protection of strategically important energy sites. Let us not give ourselves any illusions, fellow Members, that with the adoption and implementation of this Investment Expenditure Project and reaching in five and a half years' time, this is the maximum term, the minimum term is three years' duration of the goal of delivering these multifunctional ships, we will be able to perform who knows what strategic tasks in the Black Sea aquatory, and do not give yourself, on the mission of supporting international security and in other seas and oceans, as they have their limitations. Mr. Minister, the strategically important energy sites are clear and precisely scheduled. I will say this for the fifth time, in Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers and in Directive No 114 on European critical infrastructure. For us on water and near water there are two such objects I am referring to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and possibly "Belene" after subsequent realization. There are also those in the Black Sea aquatory, but some of them are not laid down as objects relevant to national security. So we need to be precise, and I don't see anything wrong with writing: The protection of important energy sites in the aquatory or along the Black Sea coast. Because if anyone thinks that these two ships or one of them may or may enter against the river Danube and provide protection to the Kozloduy and Belene region, it is very false. Their characteristic is such that this cannot happen. Mr. Minister, something that we must pay particular attention to is the design readiness, because here any delay, even for days, for months, would lead to an ineffective implementation of the set goal. What bothers me, which I put as a matter of a previous meeting in the previous project, at which you attended? That was the question of payments. Why? Because we are in front of the waiting room right now, and then we will be in the waiting room and in the time when these projects will have to be paid definitively, most likely the currency will not exist. We do not know what it will cost us to acquire these volumes of euros that should be paid. It should be handled very carefully with this. Time parameters. Very large scissors from 36 months to 66 months, that is, three years to five and a half years. We are now in 2018, we are talking somewhere about 2022, 2023, maximum term. And something else I would like to see in the Project that the achievement of this goal, the construction, the purchase of modern ships of a new generation, which we do not have, without a doubt, have extremely wide-ranging functions, including radioelectronic struggle, with the ability to accept helicopters on board, to participate in the elimination of hybrid devices, in cyberdefense, will want, Mr. Minister, and changes in the foundations of naval education in Bulgaria, new training programs and plans, if you will and prepared professor-learning human resources. Those are the things I'd like to say. Of course, we'll support the project. We also call on colleagues from the parliamentary group to support it. I would very much like to say this seriously, and I said it at a meeting, which are against the Project, which will not support it today, to take regard, have parliamentary time, to come out and say why, so that we can measure our strength in lines, in duplicates and see who is right and who is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u30	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. There was a request to extend the time of the groups. Please take care of this. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. General, colleagues! It is nice when there is talk in parliament in one direction, when there is consensus, especially on matters that concern the defence of the country. It may be a little late, but I am glad that the time has come when we can support some projects that will increase the capabilities of the Bulgarian army in our armed forces, in the Navy, in the Infantry, in the Air Force. It's a good thing there's a resource set aside for the next few years, and I'm sure that'll happen. It would give a good opportunity not only for our armed forces to have a new modern weapons and equipment, but would also give a good opportunity when a producer-supplier is wisely chosen for the participation of the Bulgarian defence industry, the fleet arsenal with the opportunities that foreign trade contracts give, especially when they are of higher value for offset programs that would help the development of our defence industry, the economy as a whole. So I wish success in the implementation of the projects and I hope that we will all unanimously support the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a speech, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister, Dear General Botsev, honourable colleagues! Today is a good day for both the fleet and the armed forces and the Bulgarian army. Because today, with the emerging consensus on the modernisation of the fleet, we are actually completing a much more serious step, that is, the realization of the three main priority projects for the modernisation of the armed forces. This is not a project which is isolated from the overall state of modernization of the armed forces. From now on, we will continue modernization because there are many other things. I'm glad we have this consensus. I have repeatedly welcomed colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party for having done, as my esteemed Mr. Vitanov said, a proper assessment of the situation in the Black Sea region. The efforts to re-arm Russia, Turkey and Romania were pointed out in vain. Of course, we can't remain idle, not only because the situation is changing, not only because we need to be adequate to today's situation, but because we also need to be adequate to the future development of the situation in the Black Sea region. And naturally, such an explicit desire to modernize the Navy is an absolutely logical conclusion to such an assessment. As for some issues that have been raised, of course, there is a reason, but what seems important to me is the predestination that this project has some corrupt beginnings, it seems a little far-fetched. Firstly, due to the fact that there are not many projects being viewed in plenary. And there are important projects like this one, for example, that are being watched. This means that both the opposition and the government will be vigilant when it comes to the implementation of the Project when it comes to sending calls for participation, when it comes to evaluation, choice and hence the implementation of the Project. There are many steps, and it is obvious that the Defence Committee is asking all those who understand matter and in plenary these questions. I mean, that's gonna be public attention. Secondly, the project itself, as you said, gives considerable flexibility and opportunity to choose. This is also one of the elements with which we actually want to prevent possible corruption. Of course, we can talk a lot about this here, but I want to finish with the fact that there is political will, there is a desire, there is a relation to the Bulgarian army, there is a relation to the Bulgarian soldier and officer. I hope that today, when our sailors are at sea, we will bring them good news. Our sailors really deserve this good news. You know that today is the day of the Breeze study. Let us congratulate them with good news coming from parliament, from the highest authority in the Republic of Bulgaria. Congratulations to Bulgarian sailors in advance! I hope the good news will come today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replicating the President of the Commission as he mentioned the efforts to re-arm countries such as Russia and Turkey. I have to admit, he's a good balancemaker, but I still have to tell you, General Popov, I did my work last night, preparing for today, to pull out the re-arming figures in 2017 and to tell you: Russia of almost 80 billion. the dollar in 2016 went to 66 billion. USD; United States of America "610 billion" The dollar, nine and a half times more; NATO, 900 billion. The dollar, so we have to be very careful when we talk about imbalance, arms, re-arming, who does more and who poses a threat. And another thing, General Popov, but perhaps the Minister here or the Chief of Defense will take the attitude not to think that what we are doing under the Investment Expenditure Project will bring who knows what gross domestic product for Bulgaria, unlike the war machines and the Air Force, where this can actually happen. And don't let him think we're making warships here. I'm sorry Admiral Manushev won't explain we're making the shell. That's naval language. In sole, it's called the shell. Everything else comes from outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any other lines to General Popov's statement? I can't see. General Popov has the word for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to thank Mr. Velkov, my esteemed Mr. Velkov, for the possibility of a duplicate. I was just quoting Mr. Vitanov, who said who was doing what in the Black Sea region. I didn't mention the word "disbalance" anywhere. [[Noise and lines.]] Oh, that was Mr. Vitanov's back-up? I apologize, but I will still use this case to say that we are still part of NATO. We cannot remain isolated from the processes that are taking place in NATO. We cannot remain isolated from the processes that are taking place in our Black Sea region. We cannot remain isolated from the processes that are taking place in the Balkans. We are part of these processes. What we are doing right now is all together, really not so much focusing solely on the Black Sea fleet, what will happen. Of course, for our sailors, this is important. It is important for the Bulgarian Army, but the important thing is that we are involved in these processes, that we are not idle and we are not left to the current. That is the important attitude, and that is how we should approach it. And as for those billions you mentioned, they're accurate, true, but they're obviously not in our pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u38	Thank you, General Popov. Now we move on to other speeches. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. General! I also take the floor to express our attitude again to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.In support of the so presented Project for Modernization of the Navy, with the understanding that this decision is really unalternative and the leading in this case is that the army is in a very difficult state. We're thinking about people, but the technique, the armaments, they're out of date. Given this complex state and the restrictions in which the Bulgarian Army operates, we have no other option but to support the project for the Navy. Moreover, the previous speakers explained that we are always consistent with the Bulgarian Socialist Party and we believe that the Bulgarian Army guarantees statehood in the country, we must think about the development of the armed forces and that is the second reason why we will support the project. However, there are many weaknesses, although we are also talking about improved, about an updated Investment Expenditure Project. I would like to express our concerns and doubts. First of all, although our colleagues from the ruling coalition tried to explain to us that the corruption risk is low, we cannot ignore it and pay attention to it, all the more so given what happened in the previous procedure, which did not happen, was stopped, the project was failed. Those doubts that strain the procedure will be sufficiently competitive this time, with more participants, exist. And we here express the opinion that the Ministry should, of course, and we, as a legislative body, are ready to help, to ensure maximum transparent, good conditions, competitive principle, the appearance of more than one participant, to make sure that this time the project will not be failed and it will happen because it is, once again I say, vital to the Navy and the development of the Bulgarian Army. That is why, as General Popov said, using all the legislative instruments allowed, we will monitor the process how it is developing, guarantee maximum transparency, request information about every stage of the implementation of the project, so that we can guarantee this transparency and there are no doubts, both here between us and in the Bulgarian society, that this project carries a major corruption charge. Moreover, given that we will spend a billion on this project alone. Secondly, I cannot help but mention the industrial cooperation, although we are seeing 16 companies that can join the project in Bulgaria, yet the armament will come from outside, and we all know that the armament is more expensive and it costs the project, so it is nice to think about it, given the broad boundaries that are given for the financial parameters of the project, even more binding on the different options for realization, and they are not equivalent, by the way. Once again, I say: we support the Project, but we are here to ensure transparency and we will monitor the implementation of the modernisation of the Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the adoption of this project for investment expenditure we complete the investment expenditure cycle in the field of modernization of the Bulgarian Army. I am glad that in the dialogue that took place between opposition and governors, the government heard the opposition as well, because you remember the previous experience when attempts were made for investment costs. We'd forgotten the Land Forces, we'd made an investment cost, a project for the Navy that failed. Thank God, I hope that this time things will be in the order in which they should be, all the more so, once again, they came into dialogue, not dictation. However, I would like to draw attention to something that needs to be clear: that we are reaching a consensus in the field of national security, we have stated it and that we will be seeking this consensus from the very beginning of parliament. We have said that when it comes to the security of the state, when it comes to its armed forces and the security of the servicemen, which is impossible to do without the modernization of the weapons, we will be constructive, but we will not forget the element of the force, so we will continue to insist on lifting the status of the military, raising their payments, that the people who serve in the army must have, apart from good pay and good status, must also have good motivation, to occupy that place, which is due to them as protectors of the country. But there is something I would also like to stress that we are reaching consensus in the field of national security and defence does not mean that we have reached consensus on all the state's policies. We, as opposition, and you, as governors, of course, know it all, we have insurmountable differences in both health and education policy and social policy, and in the role of the state in the economy, but we are aware that these differences, whatever they are, and whoever they govern, whether they will be the opposition, whether they will be the rulers, according to the will of the people, are not going to happen in a situation of strategic instability, in a situation of state uncertainty. And this is the opposition's motive to support these efforts of the state, I say to the state. And, Minister, once again I would like to address you: very please, I know what you have said in the Commission that you expect us to develop the rules for you to take account of the activities of these projects for investment expenditure, but I hope that this will not only be a formal statement, but really your understanding, because when it comes to billions, and when it comes to an economy that breaks out of your scorn in order to ensure the safety of the state, it must be your duty to make all Bulgarians aware that money is being spent in a legitimate way in the interests of Bulgarian national security, in the interests of Bulgaria, so that we should be proud of the name that we have now so many years since the creation of Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Minister, you've asked for the floor. I close the debates and give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. General Botsev, Chief of Defence, I thank you for the support of the parliamentary groups to the Modernization Project in our Navy. The truth is that for decades our armed forces have been left at the mercy of fate. Perhaps at the beginning, after or before our NATO accession, some of the politicians were thinking: now that we are entering NATO, there will be someone to protect us. Then, due to political struggles or misconceptions, we closed down the military service and started experiments that, as we can see, only damaged the abilities of our armed forces. From this point of view, this project, as well as the two previous ones that the Parliament adopted for armored machinery and for aviation, are not projects that are the idea of a single government. They are not projects of a minister, as rightly highlighted by some of the previous colleagues. These are projects for the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, because I am convinced, I have claimed it and continue to insist on it yes, Bulgaria is a member of NATO, it has to be a conscientious member, it must be a correct member, but Bulgaria for these 1400 years since it is here on this land, this territory of the Balkans has been able to rely, rely on, and rely on its armed forces in the future mainly on its army. Everything else is political talk! Thank you for the support of all political parties. I thank my colleagues from BSP for changing their opinion because by the end of last year, even until the beginning of this year, they were against the funds for re-arming. I'm glad they changed their policy. I thank Mr. Velkov's honour does him that he objectively, accurately, without political nuances said his opinion, including the notes he had made on some of the characteristics of the project are accurate. Thanks also to General Milev. I'll turn a little joke to my colleague Vitanov. Colleague Vitanov, there's a corruption charge in everything. Here you go and order a coffee and there is a corruption charge. No one has denied that there is no or that the risk is a small fact. The question is how are we, as a society, as a parliament, as a Ministry of Defence, as a government, to make these corruption risks minimal? I would also like to take account of what Mr. Ermenkov said. I don't expect you to make rules. The rules are there. The Bulgarian Parliament may at any time examine any act of the executive and the Defence Committee in its entirety and in its management, as it considered and when it considers it, at any given time may request a report on the progress of any of the projects: what, where did it come from, how did it come to be, how did the decisions taken? I have stated many times in the Defence Committee, with which I would like to stress that it is working well, that we recommend this approach so that there is no tomorrow talk of corruption charge, opportunities and so on. Because there's a corruption charge in everything, but we can't leave with one doubt. We accept the project, but there's a corruption charge here! We're throwing poison into society that this is about corruption. Actually, the joke was on your next thesis on the minister's tedious behavior. Mr. Vitanov, it would have been a tedious behavior if I had turned around your colleague from Plovdiv and then ran away. [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]] That would be tipping! I'm sorry. But don't yell at me! But you're telling me that my behavior has been twitching... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can we have quiet, please? Please be quiet! I'm explaining to you... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u44	You can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u45	Yeah, really, let's... Mr. Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u46	If you can't, yell! It's okay. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: "That's what we're doing!"]] Okay. Go on then! I said what would be tipping. However, the fact that I have voiced my opposition here in 2016 is a fact, only two years later I had to finish this welding project as Minister of Defense. And I did everything I could to make this project happen! However, as you recall, Mr. Vitanov, what I said here on June 1, 2016, that's what happened, right? Where's the tipping point? What's the turning point that when I found him, I didn't sabotage him? If I sabotaged it, you'd tell me I sabotaged it deliberately! I have to start a project to bring it to the end. What's the tipping point? In this project the difference is as follows: then, in general, it was clear from the investment expenditure project itself that it would come to one participant at the end. Those were my criticisms 2016. Those were my doubts, too, even then I told you that I know about the name. Well, was I right? What did the name come up? The issue at the moment is to give the opportunity to participate all Bulgarian companies and the major world producers in this area. Here no one has any intention in advance to prejudge matters for the benefit of one or another. On the contrary, competition between all participants will appear in my opinion the best opportunities and conditions under which we can enter into a contract. So is our ambition on the other two projects. What I can tell you is that I would not accept either internal or external lobbying and pressure for one, another or third project. As has been said by all the parliamentary groups, our army's modernisation projects will no longer be postponed. The situation in the fleet is particularly difficult due to the fact that the technique we have is mainly an old Soviet technique and the two old Belgian frigates, which have never been upgraded in time for exploitation. The question is not to get into an argument now who gave more arms costs or which weaponry is better? Russian or Western? Here the point is that indeed these old Soviet ships are so old that the question of the next three years is that they are out of use. There is no possibility, by whatever means, that they will be maintained and carried out their duties. The question: why does it say four and not two in one place? We're doing a project for two because, as in the Fighter Project, we're talking about a squadron, but the first part of the Project is these eight, nine. It's the same with ships. Starfleet Command thought it would take four ships, but we're starting this project with two. The truth is that with all three projects we will not solve the long delayed issues in our armed forces in terms of modernisation. We're not gonna solve them, but this is gonna be the right step so the army doesn't have a meltdown in its technical capabilities. A proper step in the direction will give an absolutely good moral incentive to our servicemen that we provide them with modern weapons, which they can train and carry out their duties. It will be a sign to the public that Bulgaria restores those abilities as an army, which are necessary for the fulfilment of our constitutional obligations as the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you once again for the support of the parliamentary groups! Again I say: let each of the MPs, when he considers that he has something to ask as a question, whether through the Defence Committee, be self-sufficient............................................................................................................................................................ We're open. I have only one request here, Mr. Velkov was right. There are some things that we are looking at at closed meetings in the Defence Committee, then they should not be made public, because some of the participants, especially if we start talking about financial parameters, some of the participants who will not win, because it is clear that of all the participants will win one, can use similar arguments to appeal the procedure, to appeal to the project itself. I therefore very much ask that we be correct and careful in this regard! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[The National Representative Petar Vitanov wants the floor.]] Mr. Vitanov, I've closed the debate. Please! This was the Minister's statement, which is outside the debates under the Law. There's a vote coming up. Please! Let's not break the rules! [[The National Representative Petar Vitanov wants the floor.]] Procedure, but no abuse! Please come in for a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] The request is for procedure. For a personal explanation, I didn't give it up. I've closed the debate. I am listening carefully to you and will monitor the contents of your statement. I beg you very much, just by procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u48	After all, it's a more personal explanation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u49	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u50	Okay. Then in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you, taking procedure in the manner of conduct, because you've allowed such a sexual element into an attempt at a fat joke that... [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Oooh!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u51	Excuse me, I'm taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u52	...in my opinion, it's unacceptable in... What I'm trying to say is, is that it's a tempestuous...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u53	Mr. Vitanov! Mr. Vitanov, please. I won't let this conversation continue! It was initiated by a definition of the minister's behaviour, which was not dignified and was not appropriate for that language. Please, we're aborting! We're moving on to... [[Noise and lines.]] Take your place so we don't go to sanctions! We are now going to vote on the draft decision. [[Noise and lines.]] I have already read the Decision Project, please once again for your attention to meet: Project! DECISION adopting an updated investment cost project "Actributing a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship to the Naval Forces" adopted by Decision of the Forty-third National Assembly on 2 June 2016, (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). in DV, No. 43 of 2016), as per the Annex. Please, voting mode. Vote 145 MPs: 135 against 9, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Decision. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are moving to the next point of our current programme: REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2017 We'll start by getting acquainted with the Defence Committee report. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, 802-00-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. At a meeting on 5 June 2018, the Defence Committee discussed a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, 802-00-26, presented by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. 18 MPs participated in the meeting. The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov, Chief of Defence General Andrey Botsev and Head of the Political Office of the Ministry of Defence Iliya Nalbantov. The Chairman of the Defence Committee indicated that the Defence and Armed Forces State Report was drawn up in implementation of art. 23 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and clarified that in accordance with this article of the Law the National Assembly shall rule on the report by decision, and according to art. 90 para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may accept or reject the report of the importer. On behalf of the importer, the report and the reasons for it were presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov. It was stressed that the report reports on the challenges to defence policy and the tasks implemented in 2017. Guidelines for focusing efforts in the next reporting period are being given. The report is an important information document, but also contains a commitment to the future implementation of the country's defence policies under the supervision of the National Assembly. In the speeches of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Kolyo Milev were made critical remarks on the evaluations and the main conclusion in the report. It has been said that the shortage of personnel in the armed forces is increasing and that modernisation projects should go hand in hand with the care of the defence people. It was expressed that the report does not show a complete realistic picture of the state of defence and the armed forces, with some data being saved and others not properly interpreted. As examples were referred to the assembly of units of the Land Troops and the filling of the voluntary reserve, and that by mid-2018 only two of the investment projects had entered the National Assembly. Members of parliament Boris Vangelov and Plamen Manushev expressed their full support for the report. It was stressed that the report was written responsibly, reflects the problems and challenges of defence, is realistic and contains sufficient data and is sufficiently objective. Particularly important are the conclusions and directions for focusing the efforts, from which it is clear that, without delay, modernisation and emergency measures should begin for greater motivation of personnel. In response to the questions raised by the Deputy Minister of Defence, it was clarified that the assessment in the Report on the State of the Armed Forces was critical, but at the same time realistic enough. This assessment shall be based on the analyses and on the materials provided by the types of armed forces and the structures of the defence system. The report is prepared by working groups with the participation of civilian and military experts. He has been accepted by the Defence Council, with assessments, conclusions and directions for work being supported by the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Headquarters and the commanders. It is important to adopt the report because, after the National Assembly has spoken with a decision, it confirms the areas of work and focus of efforts. The Chief of Defence General Andrey Botsev added that the report takes account of what took place in 2017, and many of the necessary measures have been taken in the current year 2018. The results of the increase in remuneration and the measures taken to improve staff assembly, the adoption of the Plan to increase defence spending to 2%, as well as the launch of modernization projects will take place in the current and subsequent years. On the basis of the discussion held and the opinions expressed, the members of the Defence Committee with 13 votes in favour; without the opposition and 5 votes in abstention, the following opinion was adopted: Supports the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. No 802-00-26., submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 I am opening the debates on the proposed draft decision on the adoption of the report. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov. You have the floor to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. General Botsev! The report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will not accept it because it is unrealistic, it is misleading, it is misleading. He insinuates something that we do not really have in the Bulgarian Army and something that the Bulgarian Army is currently not, i.e. to be a reliable guarantor of statehood. In this sense, from the beginning, from the summary, of the Report we do not agree with the basic conclusion, which is actually given in it, namely that the Bulgarian armed forces are in a position with difficulties and increased risk to carry out their mission tasks arising from their constitutional obligations to ensure territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty. It is not at increased risk, it is not limited, the Bulgarian army I would say is completely paralyzed. She is unable to fulfil her constitutional obligations. I'm only gonna go with separate sections, which, by the way, are six in the Report. I'm gonna go with the first defense policy that the Department of Defense has led. In it we will agree with the good analysis done in terms of the environment of security. Cyber threats reported, terrorist threats reported, migratory pressure, a changed security environment. We agree with the assumption that we need to work and give priority to the main mission of the Bulgarian Army. We also agree that there is something else to be a major priority to maintain, strengthen and develop new defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Army. Yes, but with this report and with this condition of the Bulgarian Army we neither retain the defense capabilities, but on the contrary they degrad. We reduce our potential and potential for impact. One great eulogy in the work of the Ministry of Defence is the so-called Automated System for Human Resources Management. It has the impression that it works and the biggest contribution of the Ministry is the adoption and creation of a register for civilian posts. It is missed to say that the service record does not work. This speaks of one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that the administration and the Ministry have broken the connection with the servicemen, with the Bulgarian army, with the armed forces. This, by the way, is a problem that is somehow surrounded by the report because we have repeatedly said that civil expertise takes precedence over the military. The balance between civil and military expertise has long been compromised. And that's a big problem. Here I will just point out that this problem dates back to 2010 with this so-called moderate model of integration of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Headquarters. I'll move on even further. The administration does not think about the servicemen because obviously there is not enough competence, preparation for the management of the processes in the armed forces, in the Bulgarian Army. Because senior executives continue to be involved in this is a very vicious practice, incompetent, unprepared and non-military people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u57	Give an example!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u58	I'll save it. But the same person I'm talking about is in a total conflict of interest, by the way. Anyone who's familiar with it can draw conclusions. All of these circumstances lead to today's...maybe loudly sounds a paralysed state of the armed forces, of the Bulgarian army. I'm moving on. The management of the Ministry and of the Bulgarian Army is not done effectively for another reason. Although scarce, budget funds are not allocated properly, priority for the most important activities and for the development of defence capabilities. There are many examples in which public procurement is concluded with one contractor for more than one procurement within a year. Framework agreements and contracts are concluded with only one contractor and so on. I'll give another vivid example. With regard to audit activity and verification carried out by the Audit Unit and the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Defence. The report says that as a result of an inspection carried out by the Inspectorate, the Bulgarian Army is actually able to carry out its missions and tasks and supports the built defense capabilities. Yes, gentlemen! However, in art. 106 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act does not have such an opportunity, it is not included in the Inspectorate's inspection of the defence capabilities, the state of the Bulgarian Army. These are examples that can show us only one thing that the Bulgarian Armed Forces are obviously not managed properly, in the right direction and this government is rather worsening the critical condition in which the Bulgarian Armed Forces, the Bulgarian Army, are present. I will draw attention to another fact relating to the information policy of the Ministry. What's going on? The information policy should be focused on the activities of the armed forces and so on. At the same time, it turns out that the military channel, the newspaper, the Bulgarian Army, was used for one thing only to promote the work of the management, the management of the Ministry, and not what the Bulgarian Army does. Because that's the way to attract young people. Speaking of attracting young people, I'm gonna say one more thing that's important. We have said more than once, Mr. Ermenkov also said that the people in the defense are the most important to us. Yes, but for the last year four competitions have been held, which show that of those who have appeared about one person for each holiday job, 50% are appointed. There are a number of circumstances that do not involve physical inadequacy, mental inadequacy. But that's not the problem. The way in which this organizational structure functions structurally and functionally, which deals with the assembly of the Bulgarian Army because it is not changed And this, by the way, is the most important and best developed element of the armed forces of a professional army. I will stop there by saying that the legal base, which has been updated and which the government boasts, where it has led to the increase of the Bulgarian army's neocomplect, to the delay of modernization, to the lack of funds to maintain the available weapons and special equipment. This is because apparently the government continues to run away from the problems, to define the problems and to seek their solution. That is why we believe that this report is not only unrealistic, it is a collection of different facts that should suggest that everything is okay in the Bulgarian Army, to cover up the problems again, to hide them. This is a formal report that needs to be fully revised. I congratulate, by the way, the government for one thing.. that after a year and a half we are talking to them that a strategic review of the sector should be launched of Security, they finally decided that it should be done to see the real state of the Bulgarian army. That is, the conclusion of the report that you have presented to us is that it is unrealistic, does not affect the main and most important problems, sweeps them away and for this reason we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Mr. Vangelov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, General Botsev! Everyone who has read the Report has certainly been impressed with it, each of us has had and has the opportunity to read it if someone has not read it, to bother to read it after the meeting, to see that the report is the opposite of what we have just heard from our opposition colleague. First of all, the report is completely correct. It is public to us as MPs who are correct to the Commission, correct to society, to everyone who is interested in the subject. If this correctness is challenged, I can make whole pages quotes from the Report to see that it is because there is a difference in words. But in addition to being correct, the report is also honest. All the problems are listed inside and nothing is blurry on a clerical basis, nothing is saved by society. The processes that the Bulgarian army has experienced in the past 28 years have really led to such a situation that any concealment of the problems and their blurring would not help its recovery. Therefore, there is no clerical chatter in this report, there is no clerical wasteland, because whoever was in the executive power from you, even briefly, knows how officials can write many pages and not say anything at the end. In the report there is nothing like it, it is extremely detailed. "All problems have been said. The ways in which they will be resolved are also stated. The objective view of the report shows that a huge work has been done by a team of specialists, both by the civilian and by the military leadership for which I congratulate them, and a really wonderful document has been received, which actually gives a picture of the condition of the Bulgarian army. I would say to my opposition colleagues: you say that you will not support the report, but you voted for the projects, and the three projects are the result of the report, which shows that the three projects must be voted on. When it is said to be unrealistic, then it turns out that there is a contradiction with the vote on the projects. The Ministry's leadership not only hasn't broken ties with the servicemen, but I can't think of another minister who has been closer to the troops for the past 20 years, to the ordinary private. If there is one, there are more experienced, older colleagues can say. Maybe there are other ministers like that, God willing. But this minister not only hasn't broken ties with the servicemen, he's always with them. The increase in wages is proof of this and this increase will continue both during this and next year, and in pό next year, which does not correspond at all to the claim of a broken relationship. And the report makes it clear that the management is making every effort to improve the situation of the Bulgarian armed forces, let alone, which said the speaker that there was a paralysed state of the armed forces in Bulgaria. The incompletion is a major problem affected in the Report, but let us remind you that when some other political forces ruled, the incompletion grew in a year with 1,900 people, while now it is melting. For last year, it grew by 100, not by 1900, as it was in the administration of other political forces, which also removed the compulsory military service, but spoke of an incompletion. The dignity of the Report, apart from the conclusions, is also in its.. with this I end, and I will allow myself a very short quote: "Manufacturer for the focus of efforts" first, realization of the estimates in the National plan to increase the budget to 2%. This is already being done, i.e. the report reflects in the directions of focusing the efforts practically steps already taken in this direction. Other: Starting the three main modernization projects started, today we finally voted all three, and focus on the efforts to fill the holiday sites in the armed forces. I have already spoken on this issue that everything possible is being done here, both thanking the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister for giving money to increase the wages of the servicemen and that this trend will continue. We will support the report because we consider it to be correct, honest, responsible to all of us to the Bulgarian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. Are there any lines? I won't. We're moving on to speeches. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, General Botsev! Dear colleagues, the problems we are discussing, discussing the 2017 Defence Status Report, show that the laws of dialectics are confirmed in life, i.e. quantitative accumulations pass into quality. As the talkers spoke about specific stages, I will try to tell how this state came about to have this report on the state of defence. The chronic and insufficient funding of the Bulgarian Army and of the entire sector of Security has led to these deepening problems. Neglecting and non-solving the problems in the sector - Security - in a timely manner lead to catastrophic problems, which require much more money and time. The lack of funds over the years has made the orders and supplies of the necessary spare parts for military equipment extremely difficult, as well as the inability to conclude contracts for subscription service of the fighting equipment, which led to a continuously decreasing number of repairable military equipment. Here Mr. Velkov said about the closed session, so I won't say anything, only by that I limit myself to marking what is disturbing enough. After 2010, for the same reasons, no fuel was purchased for the army and the last available reserves and reserves were used. The subsequent years of a restrictive budget have led to the inability to purchase the necessary fuels and lubricants, and hence to reduce the operational capabilities of our army. In the past years, all transformations in the Ministry of Defence have been reduced only to reducing personnel despite the loud and pompously announced objectives of reaching. Your policy, gentlemen in charge, in recent years, is more like palliative care for the army, defence and security. Despite the 2020 of the armed forces programme, no project for modernization of the armed forces has been implemented so far. I hear a lot of positive praises that it's almost over now. Dear colleagues, we have been waiting 15 years for these modernization projects to take place and have not yet taken place. Let them become reality and then let us fight in the chest and say that we have done something with our actions to make these projects complete. Abandonment in the area of modernisation is huge during and with disastrous consequences for the country's security. This further delay, if necessary, will lead to new financial losses and more expensive equipment that will be bought over time, as prices, honourable Members, of all types of equipment do not decrease, but, on the contrary, increase. The report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 clearly demonstrates the negative consequences of this vicious and short-sighted policy towards the defence of the country and the Bulgarian Army. The Republic of Bulgaria is still far from reaching the testament 2% of gross domestic product according to NATO's decisions in Wales. According to the plans, we have to reach them by 2024. This is after 6 years, honourable Members. To mention our neighbours, neighbouring Romania already has a military budget of 2% of gross domestic product. You know, a little while ago, those talking at the front of the line said what modernization projects our neighbors have. Waiting after six years of catching up at some pace that's slowed down and lost is just very difficult. The increase in the budget by 120 million. lv. for 2018, for the Ministry of Defence, of course, is a breath of air, but it is not enough to compensate for the errors of chronic shortage of money for defence and security over the past 10 years. I hope this time, the modernisation projects in the three types of armed forces are fully implemented, which is a start to reflect and initiate real actions and steps to improve the state of defence and security. But as the Defence Minister said at the front point, this is the first stage for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, in which there should be a second stage, for which both the MPs and all institutions must have the power, the stubbornness to bring modernization of the Bulgarian Army to the end. The security and defence of their country has a price and which ignores this, ignores both sovereignty and freedom of the state. Humans are the most valuable resource of defense, a key component of ability. Above all, the remuneration in the system must be increased in order to be the service in the army and the security system attractive and to be able to attract more personnel. Despite efforts to recruit new personnel, to fill the 20% neocomplete, it continues to deepen as well as with the assembly of reservers. All the problems mentioned so far lead to the fact that the Bulgarian Armed Forces are severely hampered and at increased risk carry out their tasks on missions arising from their constitutional duties, guaranteeing the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. For the reasons listed above, the parliamentary group of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" will not support, but will abstain, and I would like to draw attention first of all to you, gentlemen ruling by GERB and by the United patriots, that you have full responsibility for the state of security and defence. You mustn't forget that. The approach and the way it has been working for the past 10 years, which, in addition to the problems in the period of time, have led to this state of defence, must be changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u63	Thank you, General Simeonov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Before I give the floor of speech, at Mr. Gurnevski's request to inform you that the debates are held in the presence of our guests from the town of Bremen, Germany, the gentlemen Willie Heise and Walter Bunge, who are on the balcony and are watching our discussion. [[Applause.]] Mr. Velkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear General Botsev! Mr. Minister, we know he's watching right now, so I might as well say Mr. Secretary! Of course, we are now talking about the report, the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Listening to one of my colleagues, a member of the Defence Committee, who said here that after supporting the investment projects of the three types of armed forces, this means that everything is okay. On the contrary, colleagues, that is why there are such projects because our armed forces have huge problems. If everything were as you say in the Report, we would not be voting on investment expenditure projects today. I'm sorry to say this, Mr. Vangelov, directly, but this is not a report on the minister's activities, but on the state of defense and the armed forces. I will say one more time, without, of course, revealing any classified information, this report that you have with you. "Those who have read it differ greatly from the report we heard at the closed session, and it was on the same subject. It was very detailed, very detailed, in types of armed forces and in separate directions. The general conclusion that the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are able to carry out their mission tasks under increased risk and difficulties is true: in conditions of increased risk. Yes, there are conditions of increased risk and it is a function of the changed security environment. Everything else could be questioned, and I'm questioning it. I'll tell you why. We say: to carry out his mission tasks with difficulty. What about the Armed Forces missions? Defence participation in the maintenance of international order and security and contribution to national security in the country. That is, including participation in the eradication of the consequences of natural disasters, accidents, accidents and so on. There is no doubt that we can handle the third mission. On the first two, however, I would not say that we have done well so far and continue to do well. I will start from 2004, colleagues, although the report is for 2017. We have given 16 victims in Iraq, military and civilian, almost 60 wounded in Afghanistan. Is this a success in maintaining international order and security? As far as these operations can be called peacekeepers, because they are peaceful, but that was one deviation. From what we have heard from the Report, the Ministry's leadership and the Chief of Defense, from that report we are talking about, without quoting any figures, the situation is alarming. I would not claim that our armed forces are currently able to carry out their mission tasks successfully. Look at the non-completions: dozens of percentage points around 30, somewhere over 30, I mean in human resource expression. General Bochev is here. He knows very well in a real battle environment, if one unit part, part compound loses 30% of its composition, what is the qualification. If he's specialized, even more so. We're talking that we have a very well-prepared special ops brigade, the 68th Brigade. The boys are prepared, but it's airborne. Someone here in this room, can you tell me what we're gonna use to carry them by air? Eight, ten to twelve military transport planes are needed to transport the majority of the tactical groups of this brigade. Where are those planes of ours? One we have. This is the state of the Navy, not only the Land Forces, the Air Force has also been accounted for, so let us be very, very careful and precise when we commend a report on the state of a structure on which the security of the state is largely dependent, which is not objective. Let me tell you something else, guys. It does not apply to 2017, but white people, accidents don't know time limits. In six months, we lost two machines due to airline accidents and three elite pilots. The findings of the committees are, unfortunately, not for technical reasons, but for reasons of a subjective nature. We know what the situation is with our pilots' nads and how much they can match the one in NATO standards. Moreover, no one is anymore hiding that, in particular, land troops cannot declare their abilities according to NATO standards. We don't have modern war machines. We'll make up for the projects, but we don't have them now. We're talking about now. I don't want to talk about the number and condition of the armored equipment, I have no right, but it is particularly disturbing. So how are we going to accomplish missions with such a huge failure? We're bled out in peace time. No one denies, Mr. General, the achievements that the army has, the Defense Headquarters, personally you, and that you are doing the impossible to maintain abilities out of nowhere, but I would not agree to support a report that does not reflect the real state. Tell me, the problem was with the previous report in an expression that the armed forces were able to partially carry out their duties. It is now: in conditions of increased risk and with difficulties. If a company of 110 people, 35 people are gone, or if your armor-piercing technique is almost half missing, isn't that part of the mission duties? I ask you, when you vote, because you do not know the contents of the report, to make it clear that we are talking about something that is not true. And that one, the infinite confidence, the belief in something that may not be true, I don't want to say what it's called, but it's closer to fanaticism than to realism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Vangelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Velkov, I'm sorry, I didn't say the report was okay. I said the report is a sort of motive for the three projects. I mean, if you support the projects, how you don't support the motives, that's how I said it. In a way, if you voted for the projects, why don't you also vote for the reasons for these projects? Anyone who reads the Report, even if he is not a specialist, will come to the conclusion that the Bulgarian Army needs urgent modernization. In that sense, I found a link between the report and the three projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Velkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u68	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the group, please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u69	Please extend the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u70	I'm provoked by what I've heard, of course, not that I'm using my right to dodge. I say again, that is why we have adopted modernization projects, because our army, the armed forces, is clearly in need of modernization. They are not modernized, and you, with great self-esteem, claim to be able to carry out their tasks almost seamlessly. I would like, Mr. President, so that I do not take a procedure in the manner of conduct, to ask a question, but also to the House, and to those who speak with self-confidence here. We accept the report on the state of defence and the armed forces, the Chief of Defence is standing here and not moving, although he is a smoker, the President of the Commission and the Minister are not in the Chamber and a significant part of the MPs. If we now request a roll call, Mr. Chairman, be assured that the report cannot pass due to the lack of enough MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u71	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. I accept the remark. We'll take her attitude after the break, as it's time for a 30-minute break. One message. For it, we are fighting for it we are dying on the occasion of the 115th anniversary of the Ilinden-Preobraise uprising will be opened in the Northern lobby of parliament. The Exhibition of the Regional Historical Museum of Blagoevgrad presents original photos, documents and items related to the Ilinden-Preobrazha Uprising. All MPs are invited to attend the opening in the Northern lobby at 11:30. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:00 we will continue the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue with the debates on the draft decision on the adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will begin my speech, first, with a small comment on the pre-speakers and on some of the speculations that have been put forward during previous speeches. It was told about the civil expertise of how it had almost overcome military expertise and so on and how dysfunctional is the integrated model, which was the fault of GERB. However, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the integrated model of the Ministry of Defence was introduced by the Defence and Armed Forces Act in 2008. GERB was not in parliament in 2008. Guess who introduced him! So if the BSP criticises its own decisions, by the way, the correct decisions of the BSP, and already decides to give them up, this is a socialist problem. As for some insinuations for unqualified people holding state posts in the Ministry of Defence, for conflict of interest and so on, I call on the people who speak them to really seal them with data and to submit the relevant signals to the competent anti-corruption authorities, because otherwise we are only undermining the prestige of the institutions, undermining their credibility when we talk speculation that is not backed up with facts. Let us, if there really are such signals or such impressions, be confirmed by the relevant facts, because otherwise it would not be correct, firstly, to the people to whom it is addressed, secondly, at all to the institution. As before there was, how there was corruption interest and so on and so forth, but without any other additional facts. Let's talk facts though. As for the strategic review that the Council of Ministers started, it should then be borne in mind that at least what the opposition of the last year appealed for is for a strategic defence review. What the Council of Ministers has done is a strategic review in the security sector, which includes the entire security system, how it works, how the relations with it are and, above all, how it can be improved. So this is much bigger than the opposition would imagine. They had a similar idea 2013 in the mandate of Prime Minister Oresharski but never took place. And then the Secretary of Defense didn't even meet support in his own cabinet. As for the Inspectorate, I think the colleague Mr. Tsonkov mentioned yes, by the way it is interesting why the Inspectorate is checking the military readiness, as this power dropped 2016 in the amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. You really need to check why they keep doing this. As for some comments on the costs of defence, how almost they are too little and insufficient to do, the costs of defence are never enough. I don't think there's a minister somewhere, whether it's the Russian Federation, the United States, China or any other country that says it's enough for them. There is no such case, but I have asked to be given a reference by Minister Karakachanov on the expenditure actually incurred at the end of the year, not what was planned by budget, but what was really spent on acquisition, maintenance and use of arms, equipment and defence infrastructure for the period 2006 - 2017. As the negotiators rightly commented, we really cannot comment on just this year, we need to look at the common picture. By the way, the expenditure for 2017 is one of the largest costs of maintaining combat equipment, acquiring and creating capabilities and their maintenance in general since 1990. On average, around 150 million. lv. is the costs in this direction that the Ministry of Defence committed last year. They're not a little bit, but it's nice to make comparisons with other years. And immediately comes out what is the year with at least the cost of defense and the maintenance of armaments. It's 2014. The year is at the bottom of the defence spending. For 2014 is the only budget voted by the BSP in the last decade and supported. So let's be honest and by talking about the costs in the defense, first look at the beam in your own eye, as compared to 2013 and 2015 the difference is almost half. Thus, the only budget that BSP and the DPS back then supported is the one that dramatically cuts the cost of defence. Not to mention that, according to the then budget forecast, defence spending had to fall below a billion and below one percent. These were the programmes implemented by the government of Minister Oresharski with a mandate of BSP. So let's be honest enough with people before we talk about how things are now. Speaking of how many in Romania have reached the two percent, yes, but in Romania there is a consensus in society expressed between socialists, right and liberals, and it is expressed by both the President and the Prime Minister, by the presidents of the two chambers. There is a very clear threat to the country's security to Romanians, expressed by a threat from the Russian Federation. And they repeatedly commented in all their statements that to them the threat from the Russian Federation is real, and they therefore increased their defence costs. Let there be a similar attitude on the part of the opposition to ask for a faster increase in costs, to come out and say: yes, the Russian Federation is a threat to us. Say it so you can support the government in a similar policy. But until the moment you do not define it in this way, the government is doing its work on the basis of the resources available to the state budget, so that it does not suffocate other sectors that are also priority, I will not compare them to health care and, above all, enough resources are needed for education. When talking about the conclusions in the Defense Status Report, it should be borne in mind that they are critical enough. Even in many ways, the report itself is much more critical than the one we adopted last year. We agreed at the closed session not to use data from it, but generally then both political and military leadership confirmed that the main conclusions were written in the report itself so that there could be a clear, pragmatic and, above all, impartial assessment of the state of the armed forces. Speaking of standards, how much shit, how much teaching and so on, we need to have a clear understanding that with Russian technology, NATO standards we cannot achieve, including flight hours, including for teaching, and for everything else. Until we replace technology with modern technology, we cannot maintain modern standards. Therefore, the forward points with the adoption of the projects have given a good start in this regard. As for the main conclusions in the report, I could further say that in 2017 the increase in costs for both remuneration and equipment and re-arming is a really good trend. The growing trend, and in recent years, has been observed since 2015, 2016 and 2017, it will continue in 2018 and will continue further in order to be able to cover the needs. Now the question is, are the two percent enough to solve the problems of the army? I don't think they could. It may be much more separated, but ultimately with clear estimates, because the more money is spent, the more important is how it is managed and how much the resources that are allocated for defence go really for developing combat capabilities and to be focused on this. Finally, I would like in the next reports to have a much clearer analysis of our role in NATO and in the future European defence, which is created at European Union level and how much we fit in, how much we participate, and not only as listed exercises, number of servicemen and so on, which are sent to missions, but the effect that is achieved by this and how much more our armed forces are integrated within the two alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable General Botsev! The problems that arise at the moment in the discussion and adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report for last year are the result that it may be very late in plenary. Indeed, in mid-July we see that many of the findings that are in the report cannot be removed this year, especially for the negative countries. What is the recognition that with difficulty and increased risk we carry out the tasks remains. I am pleased that there are more and more people in plenary who understand defence and security and who are concerned about putting these issues before the whole society. Because if we do not face the problems of defence and the armed forces, we will each year adopt a report, as it was last year, with slight increases in funds such as monetary expressions and with many remaining problems in the types of armed forces, and we all know that they are many and even the satisfaction that the three modernisation projects have been adopted does not mean that they will happen. I would like to consider a little more practically in this regard and not allow, as past years, all funds that have not been used until the New Year, for example, on projects, not to go to the central budget, even in some "Defense" Fund, or to redirect to the budget of the Ministry of Defence, even for other equipment restoration activities, which is in a very indecent position, even to raise the social needs of the Ministry of Defence, even for increasing the attractiveness of the military service and for the assembly of the types of armed forces, even as the land troops have a very large percentage of incompleteness, we need to set aside funds for this matter to begin to be resolved, because with all the measures that we have adopted and the Ministry of Defence has taken so far, perhaps at the end of the year we will not take into account any major results, because they are targeted, first, towards the demographic state of society. It is evident that we do not have the opportunity to separate so young and capable people to join the army, and many of them do not meet the criteria and have already started to talk about easing the criteria for acceptance in the Bulgarian Army. I also believe that in terms of social policy, given that many areas of municipalities in the country where there are military formations and areas of the Ministry of Defence in terms of social and investment policy, we can allocate funds to this particular area to start building housing for officers and sergeants, military officers from the armed forces, so that this service can become really more attractive. In addition, the criteria for recruitment of soldiers in terms of their education in military schools and academies should also take such preventive measures. It is in this direction that I believe that all speeches so far have a resonant, but we cannot say that for a year and a half, in 2014 and half of 2015, Mr Oresharski's government has hardly stopped the modernisation and prosperity of the armed forces, in particular the Bulgarian army. This process has been a long time and we are all unfortunately involved in it. It is high time we took the necessary adequate and mostly effective measures to be able to resolve it. At this point, we cannot support the report because, passing after half of the year, it is expected to be about the same for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u76	Thank you. This was the speech of the MP Kolyo Milev. Is there a line to it? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister, Honourable General! We've been talking in this room for over three hours on matters that concern only the army, but that's at first sight. These are issues that concern every Bulgarian, about education, about social activities, about health care. Because if we don't have stable national security, if we don't have solid guarantees for the territorial integrity and independence of the republic, we'll have nothing left. I am therefore surprised by the directions in which the new patrol ship is also being commented, and mainly those which are speaking about the Report we are currently looking at, concerning defence and national security, and the Bulgarian Army for 2017. In general, in the Defence Committee, as a leader in this sector, important for the Republic of Bulgaria, and there are flashing from time to time party and political speeches, but the main points are professional, outparty, I would say, and stately. I would therefore like to return the spirit of comments in this direction. Firstly, to tell colleagues who are pó on the side, or less familiar with this topic, that the report we are looking at now is annual and is based on art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The second thing I would like to mention, mainly for colleagues who have used certain epithets, which are unacceptable from this tribune, and are fully compatible with the theme we are looking at, to tell them that this report has been written by over 100 military and civilians of all types and types of command in the Bulgarian Army. What the Minister has presented to the Council of Ministers and comes to us is an emancipation of the labour of so many specialists, including a large part of them are generals. Therefore, General Botsev listens carefully to us and may draw conclusions about what he should present to the Minister and the Council of Ministers for the next report next year. I don't want it to sound that way, because since 1990 and some years, I've been involved in writing these reports, of course, with very small parts. I've read them all. For some time, for years, I've been reading the reports from this institution. I want to tell you that the State Report of the Bulgarian Army for 2017 is the most critical one I remember. The most critical! There is a difference between what has been presented to all of us in the apparent Court of Justice of the Assembly and what was exported the other day by the generality at the head of the minister in a closed meeting of the Commission. You can't imagine that data could come out of this room that would gladly confirm the intelligence of the many intelligence units that work on our territory? Let us not delude ourselves that Bulgaria is a paradise with regard to foreign intelligence. At present they listen to us and look at us, if not the colleagues of the Chamber, a large part of the Bulgarian citizens, who are far from this topic, all military, cultural, economic, obvious and unclear attachés and non-attacks of many of the countries that are represented in Bulgaria, and carefully record what we say and carefully draw conclusions not about the condition of the Bulgarian army, but about the condition of the spirit of the Bulgarians and their attitude towards the Bulgarian army. In this regard, I would ask the Minister and the Chief of Defence in the next report, which will most likely be presented in April-May next year, to draw more carefully some of the conclusions and conclusions, and why not the recommendations. For the simple reason that here, from this tribune, which is heard everywhere, we should not question the spirit of the Bulgarian soldier, sergeant and officer, his willingness to defend the territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Bulgaria and to fulfil his constitutional obligations, which he once swore. I, as an officer, have sworn once as a politician four times, and I don't know if I'll swear yet, but maybe yes, maybe I won't. As an officer, only once, and the one I remember very well. And I remember this one... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not the Warsaw Treaty, colleagues, I have sworn for Bulgaria. I have sworn to protect the People's Republic of Bulgaria or the Republic of Bulgaria, the important thing is Bulgaria! I would like to remind you that thanks to the Bulgarian army from the cavalry of Khan Kubrat and Khan Asparuh or Gan, or Khan, it does not matter how the title is, Bulgaria. This word "Bulgaria" has not disappeared thanks to the Bulgarian army and will not disappear from the history of the Balkan Peninsula and Europe. And it's the only name that still exists in historical Europe as such. I would therefore like to remind my fellow Members that, yes, indeed, the factors in order to have these conclusions in the 2017 Report are the insufficient budget, incompleteness and poor state of arms and equipment. However, in a little while, I mean the historical time, in a few weeks or months we will look here at the 2019 budget and then you will remember, I will remove the protocols from what we have spoken today. You and we, starting to talk about the money for the army, about education, about social activities, about health care. I want to remind you of something that we should not forget the famous ratio of 60:20:20, the dream of NATO armies without the United States, because in the States this ratio is 40:30:30. For colleagues who are unfamiliar, this is staff support, rudely speaking, the second is the preparation of this staff and the third is capital expenditure, which includes modernisation. The 2014 budget for capital expenditure and modernisation was 4%. Four! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will not say who voted in 2013 so that we do not go into political disputes again. For this year, which we report, is 11%. It's not enough, but that's the ratio, and that's the comparison. Second of all, the non-completion of personnel. Colleagues, those of us who spoke here and who were in the army Generals, honor and respect to them, here we have, by the way, right now in the room, stars of the Pagons to make one General Staff, not one Defense Headquarters. Yeah, it's a serious problem. By the way, to the colleague who mentioned that the personnel register was not working, to remind him that he was working and that he was one of the obstacles for a more adequate and faster response of the commanders of the personnel units. First of all, the Bulgarian Army, when it was 150.. 160 thousand people, was never filled with 100% personnel and this is not possible to happen. There's no army in the world that doesn't fight, hasn't gone to wartime tracks and filled in 100%. Second, the units implementing objectives and capabilities undertaken in 2013, 2016 and 2017 to NATO are equipped with both officers and sergeants and soldiers in sufficient percentage to carry out their duties. Thirdly, colleagues, when we start talking again about Budget 2019, let us not talk about the privileges of the employees of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, but talk about the compensation payment of their work for compensations which we do not give them enough and which do not make the service attractive in these two ministries. Things are complicated. Things aren't easy. Things should not be treated in a way that only harms. I could mention facts that have been mentioned so far by both sides, both by opposition and by rulers. For 2024, we are chasing 2% of gross domestic product for defence and army spending. I hope the translation or President Trump's statement is misinterpreted again that he is already asking the NATO armies for 4%. I just talked to General Popov, and I'd love to go back to the army. In 2024, in the case of projected gross domestic product 120 billion, did you know that five billion for the army is wonderful if this thing is fulfilled? However, it is not realistic and we should not comment on serious matters in this way. I would also oppose the colleagues, but my colleague Gajev well enough point by point speaks on those who were protected by the negotiators, and nevertheless, colleagues, from the three main missions that were clearly articulated here by colleague Slavcho Velkov... In fact, we have difficulties on Mission Defense, only I would not like to return to the beginning of the new history of the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian state. In 1885, however, the Bulgarian captains with insufficient weapons, untrained, untrained and incomplete army were the Austro Hungarian generals and marshals. On the mission, I do not want to test the abilities of the Bulgarian army outside the polygons, because then we will have to fight. Of course, one is the Ottoman Empire from the end of the 19th century, another is Turkey at the beginning of the 21st century. One is the Russian Empire from the end of the 19th century, another is the Russian Federation from the 21st century. I would also mention that the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian state, including from this platform, have confirmed strongly and repeatedly that we are performing this function in accordance with NATO's agreements and with the agreements that we have taken on defence and security of the European Union. As my colleagues here tell me that I must finish my speech, I just want to tell you that the things we are seeking with these reports are to help the Bulgarian Army and vote against the report, along with all the weaknesses, we will not help General Botsev, nor the generals, officers, sergeants and soldiers, nor the minister and his cabinet. The three investment costs projects will be mainly monitored by us, only let us not forget nine, ten and more projects that are currently running on modernisation. Next year, at the same time or a little earlier, speaking of the 2018 report, let us be a little more fair and a little more positive in our attitude towards the army and its servicemen. Mr. Minister, let's prepare this army for the celebrated 30-to 30-day European Union and NATO troops, a minimum of 30 squadrons, a minimum of 30 ships ready to respond for no more than 30 days. Let Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Army take a worthy place in these Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. General! I will try not to repeat the things that have been said, I would just like to point out that the state of the defence and the armed forces of Bulgaria consists not only of the availability of a staff kit-incompletion, and not only of armaments, but also the most important here is the speaker who said it, consists of spirit, responsibility and moral-will qualities. When we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party say that the Bulgarian Army is carrying out its duties with difficulty, we do not mean the spirit, we do not mean the morals, we do not mean the will and the responsibility of the servicemen, but we do worship them, because it is in such scary and difficult conditions, with poor team-obstruction, poor armaments, extremely bad domestic conditions, they do their duty, serve the army, serve their country and try to fulfil their obligations. Once again, I hope, on behalf of our parliamentary group, and on behalf of the entire parliament! This, by the way, is one of the main shortcomings of the Report because, considering it as a motive, as we were just told, that we should have projects for investment costs, we have forgotten that this report should also be a guide to work in the field of personnel, its social security, its motivation to raise the authority of the serviceman, because Bulgaria has always been proud of the Bulgarian soldier. Unfortunately, this pride is now more formal, external and historical than nowadays, seeing how the Bulgarian soldier is dressed, what he is armed with and what he does. Our responsibility here, colleagues, is not to praise and write how good it is or how bad the report is. We have our own opinion. I hope that you will hear it as criticism, not as criticism, to understand that we are doing it, not to try to politicalize with regard to the army, but to be useful with the remarks we have to take into account for the future policy, and so that we as parliament can refute what has already become proverbial in the Bulgarian society that the Bulgarian army has no lost battle, but Bulgarian politicians have no won war. It's up to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Hristov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! General, we've done a flashback here a few times. Let's get things back to where we started. We are discussing the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. We can talk a lot about what was before. I think it's more important to see where we are now, and most importantly, what we're doing tomorrow. I'm going to try and give it a step further. What do we do from now on? First of all, about the report. We have seen that this report is written by more than 100 specialists and there are new moments in it. If we compare it with the 2016 Report, we will see that new things appear in the 2017 Report, which talks about development and a really good potential, Mr. Minister. The report is complete and reflects absolutely all aspects of both the state and the prospects. In addition, they deserve congratulations both the people who worked on the report and the management of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers because it is extremely critical. I compared the 2017 reports with 2016, including that problematic one we talked about, and I must tell you that this time, Mr. Minister, you have written things that, it is good that they are not heard in this House, but congratulations for the political courage to write so many critical notes. I also thank the opposition for not focusing on them. However, this shows that we and the leadership of the Ministry and the government as a whole are not afraid to tell the truth, to say things as they are, because our next step is based on where we are right now. Somewhere we've moved things into the Report, I'm not going to go into details about, for example, those spare tires that hang out there, that's another topic. The report is indeed extremely critical, and we should therefore all congratulate everyone. I understand you won't support him. [[Currently addressed to the BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is understandable, but at least admit that the people who worked on the report were extremely critical and released to write these critical conclusions. Admit that the leadership of the Ministry of Defence was not afraid to present to the Council of Ministers and to the Bulgarian public exactly these critical conclusions, some of which, indeed, check them, mean a lot. Furthermore, this report as fullness is consistent. In fact, it shows that we have a really good potential. All aspects of the state of all types of armed forces are covered, even details are given, which somehow we should not deal with and we do not dwell on them. The conclusions given and made in the Report are based on facts, data and we cannot reject them. These critical conclusions, which are made, are supported by facts. You could build things and criticize based on these data, on these facts, on those conclusions that the report gives us. It is your choice, it has been a little political debate here, but there are things that we need to focus on like the state of the armed forces I am talking about about the three types of armed forces, in each of them there are moments that predispose us to draw the relevant conclusions. However, these conclusions are made, we are facilitated, they are made by the Ministry of Defence's leadership. This report also shows the dynamics in the management of the Ministry, which, for me personally, is a good step, because what we have seen in previous reports - 2016 and before - has already been removed. Congratulations to the Ministry's leadership. I say it not courteously, not because I am from the ruling coalition, but because I personally see that what has been found in the previous report as shortcomings, and military leadership, and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence have focused on these shortcomings, is working in 2017. The first positive results are seen now and one of the things I want to highlight and collect your attention is that there are positive trends and they are based precisely on the fact that they have succeeded, the leadership and the military, and the political results in the previous period of finding exactly the weak spots and focusing their efforts on them. As for what we heard several times in speeches here, from all sides, was for the people in defence. This is a strong, inertial system, we cannot expect that if we take any measures today, we will improve the condition tomorrow. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they We can't bend our souls here, we can't jump to the wrong conclusions here. As for the base on which the Ministry is stepping. If you have paid attention, there is talk about strategic regulation documents. In fact, this leadership has continued a good policy for recent years. I say this not because we manage, but the main strategic documents are developed and adopted during the management of GERB. I'm not saying this to mess with you, I'm saying this because it's the truth and we have to accept it. A new Defence Directive was adopted last year, so we are on a consistent line for which we cannot fail to congratulate the leadership. Another thing that is positive and will definitely produce a positive result in the next few years. The focus that the Ministry of Defence will have for 2018, i.e. what you see in the 2018 Report as priorities of the Ministry's leadership, is already being implemented and gives positive results. I am convinced that if we ask General Botsev, he will also tell you that there are already some positive steps. I strongly reject the fact that we are catching each other on who has been doing what so far and doing an analysis of the state based on causes and consequences, but I am holding here, in this room, to start the next debate, and it is about the state of the armed forces, about the state of the army, at all of the security systems. Mr. Minister, we expect from you at our next meetings to begin the discussion about the state of the Bulgarian Army and the armed forces for the period 2020 - 2030. I think we're not the people who need to fall behind and let others tell us what to do. Let us begin the conversation about the future of the Bulgarian Army as soon as possible, so that we can, together with the opposition, of course, reach the right solutions as possible. For me this is the most important thing, and for the Report see, don't screw up your soul, support it, it's really good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear General, dear colleagues! Many words were spoken on this report. Of course, a report can give a field of expression for a variety of thoughts. I think the report is correct. I think that very well-intentioned, objectively described the facts, the conclusions are in place, the directions are correct. In fact, what does the report say, what has been done? 290 exercises were made with 11% more than last year. A great, heavy teaching.....which we have not done in many years. A teaching involving many countries, a teaching that required a great deal of work from the Defense Headquarters, the types of armed forces, many formations from the Bulgarian Army. It's an extremely difficult exercise! What has this teaching proved? This teaching has proved that we are good allies and do our jobs well. Participation in eight missions and operations abroad - increase, 69 activities in support of the population, joint actions with the Ministry of Interior, additional money was allocated to military schools, for MiG-29. What's wrong with that?! Here is the place to thank all the servicemen, all the people of the Ministry of Defense for their well done work, for continuing to carry out their duties as they should. This was not only done, much more has been done because these projects were being prepared, the Plan for increasing the defence budget to reach 2% and many, many other things that have been effective this year. The problems mentioned are yes, correct, but what we are doing right now. We have heard people from the opposition at the moment, we have started criticising the report. This means that they have no confidence in military leadership because they need to know the processes and it must be known that a report is not prepared by the Minister of Defence, but started by a brigade, a type of armed forces, the Defense Headquarters, the Ministry of Defence. We don't trust our officers and our generals?! Is that what we're trying to say? That they're misleading us, that they're lying to us?! And only then does this report reach the political part and the Minister of Defence. In my opinion, many critical words have been used that bring nothing good. I tried to write down: The report is misleading, misleading, the army is paralysed. Based on what is this made of? Based on what is this conclusion made?! And if that conclusion is correct, then what are we proposing, what are the directions? I didn't hear anything, so we have a political speech, which is only political. Does our army need this political talk?! No! The army needs specific things. I wonder what this political talk is about? Is it to buy indulgence that I kind of understand, or do I not want to admit it, but is it to play with the emotions of the people in the army, is it to win a vote?! If we play this wave, I promise you, you can win a vote, you can put on a badge for a big army defender, but you'll lose your army. Therefore, I will ask my colleagues, when we talk about defence, when we talk about spirit, about fighting spirit, and not about motivation in the armed forces, all of this to bear in mind the positive attitude towards the Bulgarian army not only in words, but also in deeds. I think it's better with work and positivism to build the army step by step so that we can finally get a result. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. General. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honourable General Botsev! To be honest, nothing surprised me because this nihilistic tradition in Bulgaria, when you are opposition, to deny everything, unfortunately, is clearly being planted. I will not repeat what the President of the Commission, General Popov, Vice-President of the Parliament, Colonel Toshev, said in his words, were very precise. I don't want to hold on to yours as well, how can I say, purely partisan criticism, because we will enter into an argument who first started, from which you cannot win, honourable colleagues on the left, because in the last 28 years you have managed Bulgaria. I should ask you the question: who broke up the army after the changes? Who removed the military service? During the time of whose governments were buying apartments in the province in garrisons for 1000 euros per square meter, then not worth so much in Sofia?! Who, at what time, did some repairs that stand like monuments, unfinished?! It would be your style to go that way, but I won't. The truth is, as has been said, that there is no such critical report, at least since I am remembered as a Member of the Defence Committee, because the purpose of this report is not to act great or to adopt something formal. I have told General Botsev that I have told the Chief of Defense, that I have told the commanders of the armed forces and all the commanders in the army, that the aim is not to do something with which to put dust in the eyes of society, but to do things and to show the situation in the army not to look for who was guilty 28 years ago or who did what five, six or seven years ago, but to be able to form in you, honourable gentlemen of the people's representatives, a clear idea of what to be done in the army in order to restore to one hundred percent of its abilities. Unfortunately, from the statements of the opposition colleagues, I heard nothing substantial, nothing constructive, not a single proposal that would say: "We propose to do it first, second, third.................. and I only heard qualifications. I apologize, one of General Milev's proposals I support and I hope you will support it when the end of the year comes and if there is money left on the projects, this money will be set aside to complete the other necessary projects, such as the repair of the helicopters, other planes, for modernization of the BMPs and so on. Then I expect you to back me up, not talk about the ghost of corruption again, or I don't know what kind of ghost you are, who has been in someone's head since the time of Engels and Marks. You're talking about the spirit of the army. This unconstructive talk, this nihilistic talk practically kills the spirit of the army. If you had criticised the Minister of Defense in a personal capacity, if you had criticised the Chief of Defense or the government, I would have accepted it. With the fairy tales you speak, you are practically demotivating the Bulgarian servicemen because, again, the problems are not 13 months old, they are not three years old, but are accumulated. Again, I remind you that in these 28 years of transition, you have ruled for 11 years. It's not right for us to enter into such a petty political harassment that the army isn't capable, there isn't such an army, there's no spirit in the army. Excuse me. Spit on me all you want. There are such attempts by a colleague of yours in Parliament to try, but to cast doubts into society about the ability, morality and readiness of our army, I cannot allow that. A person who is a minister, an MP, or whatever it may be, may be a victim, but to sacrifice the spirit of the army, the self-esteem of these young men and women who have chosen the difficult path of the military profession in a difficult time, in a divided political state, instead of getting their adversary and going somewhere with education, youth and the powers they have, to live easy and luxurious, I do not understand it! Let's explain that we've lowered the criteria for joining the army just to fill the personnel. Well, when these criteria are made, maybe there's something wrong. You can't have one who doesn't take him for a soldier in the army after six months to be accepted as a police officer! So we're doing something wrong here! And we've said it, we've written it. What I'm trying to do as a policy for working with the people in the army is to give them back their self-esteem that they are the professionals who have to make professional decisions. Twenty-successful years were crushed politically by these people, forced to make decisions that were neither at heart nor professionally respond to their understandings. Of these 13 months, since I am a minister, my desire has always been to restore the confidence of the commanders, the officers, the courage of the soldiers to see a minister or a political person, not to keep silent, because such fears have been beaten over the past 28 years, but to restore the self-esteem of people professionals who do not listen to political talkers and demagos, but politicians to listen to the military, because this is the right approach. When we go to the doctor, we don't give the doctor any sense of how to treat us or what to do, but listen to his expertise. That's the way it is in the army. There was a bunch of qualifications, accusations, doubts and so on. Let's listen to the military! In fact, the report was written by the military leadership. Here is General Botsev, you can ask not only him, but whoever he is, if I intervened at any time to On the contrary, he is critical enough, unpleasant enough even for me to read it, because I am currently the Minister of Defense. But it is the truth, it must be known and I expected reasonable suggestions what to change in the coming years one, two whether we are in power or you will come to power. It is high time on topics such as the Army, the National Security (National Security), the Police and many other things the Five-Six are, there are not many in fact, to have a constant policy that, no matter whether they are left, right, pemben, orange and so on, goes in one direction. That's how statehood is done, that's how institutions are built. So, unfortunately, I didn't hear anything new, nothing constructive in criticism, because the report itself is critical enough. As General Popov told me, if you had read it more carefully, you would have taken on many details that you could have developed more convincingly. But in my opinion, with the exception of a few people from the Defense Committee, you didn't bother to take a deep look at it, to look into it. The truth is that I have once again said that in order to survive the 500 years of Turkish slavery, Bulgarian Orthodoxy has saved us, to survive as a nation and as a country the credit is only for the Bulgarian army in the centuries to this day. And we cannot afford the luxury of looking for cheap political speculation and small political dividends. Not that we can do that by wanting to destroy the sheep and goats of the people of Strandja, because he secretly intended to lead illegal immigrants... And it's ugly and unacceptable, but with the army it's even uglier and even more unacceptable! I thank all those colleagues who will support the Defence Status Report. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We proceed to the vote on: Project! DECISION adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 They voted 146 MPs: 94 against 28, abstention 24. The motion for a decision has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue with the next item of today's program: On 1 June 2017, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on the first vote on 22 June 2017. Part Three. Mr. Kirilov, remind the House where we are and which text of the Report we are continuing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u87	So far, we have finished voting on Part Two texts, including. We've got two re-elections left on Part One and Part Two. I propose to the honourable Members that we proceed with the Part Three Report and, on the first proposal in respect of Paragraph 103 of the Part Three Report, I will make a procedural proposal to postpone the debate and the vote on Paragraph 103 for a subsequent meeting so that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court may take part, who insists, with a view to the debates and positions expressed, to appear in person and to present to the Members of the National Assembly his views on amendments to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. So I'm making a motion to postpone § 103.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u88	Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal to postpone the vote on § 103 for reasons which he put before us. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 104, which shall become § 73: .............................................................................. In the Law on Safe Use of Nuclear Energy (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the Administrative Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152 the words the Supreme Administrative Court is replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u90	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the reported § 73 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: 74, none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, I missed before the debate on the postponement of § 103 to present the name of the division: I present him to you along with § 105. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 105, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Biodiversity Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 122, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u92	Are there any statements on the reported name of the division and the text of § 74? I won't. We are voting together on the name of the division and the wording of § 74 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u93	Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u94	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 75: ................................................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 35 is created. 4. The Minister of Justice's non-procedure within the time limits laid down in para. 1 and the termination of the proceedings before him is subject to appeal before the Administrative Court. The Court of Justice shall examine only the movement of the proceedings and shall rule by order which shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u95	Statements? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal of the National Representative Hamid and the withdrawn proposal of the National Representative Kirilov are important because they were able to shed light on a problem which, at least for me and for much of our group, was not known. A change in art. 35 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, which states that the Ministry of Justice makes a proposal to issue a decree by the President of the Republic regarding acquisition, recovery, exemption or deprivation of Bulgarian citizenship. This is part of a complex procedure with which our country gives, takes or restores its citizenship. This procedure, this proposal of the Ministry of Justice, is bound by deadlines of 18 months for naturalization, 12 months for naturalization, when it comes to a person who can prove his Bulgarian origin, 6 months for recovery and others. It turns out that for years these deadlines have not been respected by the Ministry of Justice. This puts citizens who are affected to a very serious problem. This act is part of a complex factual composition which actually recodes the possibility of them taking advantage of their right, if they have it, or to deny it to them, if they do not have it, and they cannot do anything about it, neither can they appeal it, nor can they oppose it in any way. So it was important to put this on the agenda. The question is whether we are solving this painful problem with the proposed paragraph, and I think not. We need to approach this problem in another way and see where the real problem is in order to find the right solution. Why? There are two options that would explain, again, the mass practice, not to respect these deadlines by the Justice Department. The first option is to have poorly organised the work of the Ministry itself on this issue. The second option is that it is placed under some reason due to the objective inability to implement them. I am inclined to believe that it is rather the second option, because it is not only the Ministry of Justice that is facing this problem. What do the importers of the text offer? They propose that, if the Minister of Justice fails to rule within the time limit, the person concerned should refer and appeal his non-application to the court. What's the problem? The problem is that the court cannot rule on the substance and this is one of the reasons why Daniel Kirilov withdrew his proposal, it seems to me that the court cannot essentially see the sovereign judgment of this position and the presidential decree afterwards. The Court of Justice may only find something which is obvious.... that the time limit has not been met. That is to say, with this request, you will say to the court: I filed my documents on Hicks, on Igrek there is no pronunciation and the court will oblige the Minister of Justice to actually comply with the Law. The Minister of Justice is obliged to respect it without this decision of the court. Assuming that for one reason or another, it is put in an objective inability not to comply with it, it will do nothing to contribute. My appeal is: no matter what happens to this text or not, to engage a serious discussion regarding the entire procedure under which Bulgarian citizenship is given, which is obviously somewhere rampant, and you know that scandals regularly erupt in one direction or another in these matters. This deserves an analysis of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, of the procedures that are developed by the Council of Citizenship before the Ministry of Justice until what is happening in the Presidency to know where the real problems are and to contribute something to their resolution. Otherwise this text will just fool the interested parties that, you see, they have some other move, but they don't really have it. The only thing we're gonna do is create a little extra work for the lawyers, but this job is preemptive. We will therefore abstain from this text, but we remain addressed and committed to the problem of proposals that can actually solve it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u97	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I did not ask for a replica of my colleague Krum Zarkov's speech because in two minutes I will probably not be able to fully develop the argumentation in relation to the stated provision. What would I agree with the statement of colleague Krum Zarkov? I would agree that we should be open to an extended, detailed, in-depth, I would say, and an up-to-date debate on the topic of "Procedures for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship." This is not the first time we have the opportunity to find that there is a problem with the procedures for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and it is not now. However, in order to approach analysis, we must also take into account the fact that this production is specific. Its typical nature manifests itself in this: a person who does not have Bulgarian citizenship to ask to acquire such Bulgarian citizenship on some of the grounds provided for in the Constitution and in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. The other cases are less intensive than a procedural country when the request is made for exemption from Bulgarian citizenship, that is to say, the subject is already a Bulgarian citizen. I would say the legal and factual complexity and intensity of this production, and of the disputes eventually, there is a lower one. But this is a production in which the Bulgarian state exercises its sovereignty in a specific way against a foreign person.. to say: yes, we accept you to be a Bulgarian citizen or not, we do not accept you to be a Bulgarian citizen. You mentioned colleague Zarkov correctly, but I would like to focus on this fact. This is a procedure that is not carried out single, single or single by only one body. The competence in this proceedings is shared even beyond the constitutional division of the authorities. That is why we have the participation of the Minister of Justice, we have the participation of structures that exercise powers in relation to national security or the protection of internal order, or perform specific functions of intelligence, internal or external, we have advice with the Minister of Justice and with the President, and the final, final act is given to the Head of State, given to the President, who by decree provides Bulgarian citizenship. In the situation so described regarding the structure and distribution of functions in this procedure, we take into account that the Minister of Justice does not rule on substance. It proposes to grant or propose to refuse, but makes proposals based on the findings, opinions, opinions in the Council on it, and these opinions, opinions and findings are based on the opinions of the other participants who are scheduled in this proceedings. In essence, they are not mandatory for the Head of State. For this reason, as my colleague Zarkov suggested, it made sense for me to withdraw the proposal. But in fact, I believe that the correct legal and procedural decision is this: yes, to have judicial control of the actions in the executive department. This control will be for fun, the court will say: "Yes, you are slow, you are not pronounced, I am giving you binding instructions. " - But no one but the president, whose power we cannot take away, cannot solve the case in substance. Thank you. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 75 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 63, none, abstention 24. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u100	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 106 and propose the following version of § 106, which shall become § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 161, para. 1 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u101	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 106, which shall become § 76. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u102	According to § 107, there is a proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 107, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 7 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 17 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1, t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1, t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 1, t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 1, t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 253, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 107, which shall become § 77. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u104	Under § 108, there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Yavor Bozhankov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 108, which shall become § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 124 para. 1 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction over the existence, content and termination of the service and the imposition of disciplinary liability under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the Administrative Court of Disputes on the imposition of disciplinary penalties under art. 90, para. 1, t. 1-4 is not subject to a cassation appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 108, which shall become § 78. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u106	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 109, which shall become §79: ....... 79........................................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 years after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86c, para. 3 after the word "inquired" shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131, para. 8 after the word "Appeal', is added to the relevant administrative court. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 192, para. 4 after the word "Appeal', is added to the relevant administrative court. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 193, para. 2 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 110, which shall become § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...), in art. 35, para. 2 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" are replaced by the "Administrative Court" "Sofia Region."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 109, which shall become § 79; and the second text shall be the wording proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 110, which shall become § 80. Vote 80 MPs: 67, none, abstention 13. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u108	Under § 111, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid in accordance with Article 111. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 111, which shall become § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. The 9th sentence is first amended as follows: The Commission's decisions may be appealed on their legality before the Administrative Court of Sofia, within 14 days of their notification. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 6 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "the Court." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74L, para. 3 in a sentence first after the word "Acquittal" is added to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74n, para. 2 after the word "Appeal" is added to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203, para. 1 after the words the Minister of Energy is added to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224d, para. 5, in a sentence the second after the word "Appeal" is added to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224d, para. 3, in a sentence second after the word "Acquittal" is added to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 112, which shall become § 82: ............................................................................... In the Railway Transport Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the corresponding administrative court under the administrative procedure of the Administrative Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115b, para. 9 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the order of the Administrative Code. Under § 113, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 113, which shall become § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... In the Law on livestock production (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a, para. 7 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "the relevant Administrative Court." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) para. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) para. 2 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) in para. 4 the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote three texts: the first text is the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 111, which becomes § 81; the second text is the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 112, which becomes § 82; and the third text is the version proposed by the Commission, for the wording of § 113, which becomes § 83. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u110	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 114, which shall become § 84: ss s s s s s s s In the Oil and Oil Stocks Act (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 57, para. The first sentence of the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding administrative court under the administrative procedure of the Administrative Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 115, which shall become § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 33, para. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the administrative procedure of the Administrative Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u111	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first text of the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 114, which shall become § 84; and the second text of the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 115, which shall become § 85. Vote 79 MPs: 72, none, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u112	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 116, which shall become § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Personal Data (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to the transitional and final provisions in § 3: 1. In para. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the Administrative Code. 2. In para. 4 the words "the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u113	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like a statement in relation to § 116, since in the second reading discussions in the Legal Committee, we have not complied with the subsequent opinion of the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court that, in this case, there is a reference to a legal rule which is of temporary effect 'is § 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act, which has exhausted its effect. Paragraph 3 shall take effect within six months of the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure under art. 9, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act. We believe that the amendment that we voted on and adopted in the Legal Committee is currently not up to date, which is why I am proposing to reject § 116..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u115	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov to reject § 116 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted, the paragraph is dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u116	Under § 117, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: In § 117, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." b. It's out of the question. 2.b. In the case of the corresponding editorial change of the introductory phrase, b. ? b?............................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 117, which shall become § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on Protection of Competition (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence first, the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the "Administrative Court" and a third sentence shall be created: "The decisions of the Court shall be subject to a cassation appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court." (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The State Cassation Appeal Fees to the Supreme Administrative Court shall be determined in the amount of fees due for the proceedings before the Commission for Protection of Competition. State fees for the revocation of judicial acts entered into force and for private complaints shall be determined by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: The Commission's definitions for which this is envisaged may be appealed on their legality by the parties to the proceedings in order to appeal against the Commission's decisions. The definitions shall be appealed within 7 days of their notification under the Administrative Procedure Code to the Administrative Court of Justice. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: For legal proceedings, state fees and costs are due. State fees to the Commission for Protection of Competition for the legal proceedings are validated by the Council of Ministers. (2) The State authorities and the local self-government bodies shall owe fees and costs to the proceedings. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 97. 2 in a sentence third, the words to the Supreme Administrative Court within 7 days of its notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall be replaced by the following: 64, para. 3.................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 The property penalties, periodic penalties and penalties under the law shall be imposed by a decision of the Commission, which shall be subject to appeal under art. 64, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u117	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 19 against 49, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 117, which shall become § 87. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u118	Under § 118, there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 118, which shall become § 88. ...... 88............................................................................ The Law on Protected Areas (prom., SG...) makes the following additions: "1." In Chapter 4, Section II is created art. 66a: Art. 66a. General or individual administrative acts issued pursuant to this Section shall be subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. According to §119 there is a proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 119, which shall become § 89. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (not published in the Official Journal of the European Union), No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 3 sentence first the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "Administrative Court" "Sofia District" under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 4 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the "Administrative Court" in the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" are replaced by "Administrative Court" "Sofia District" under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 4 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the "Administrative Court" in the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u119	You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! I propose that by § 118, paragraphs 1.2 and 3 we vote separately because we have different opinions on them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u121	We couldn't vote different points. We can vote on a proposal for § 118 and § 119 in two different votes, but the two different points cannot be voted on separately. You can make an offer to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u122	Yeah, let's vote them out separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-19.u123	We vote on both paragraphs separately. I understand, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 118, which shall become § 88. Vote 88 MPs: 77, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 119, which shall become § 89. They voted 86 MPs: 74, against 10, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. That's what we're gonna finish on the bill. Parliamentary Control Communication on 20 July 2018: Debates on the asking of MP Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government on migration in Bulgaria and Europe. Questions and questions: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer one question from the MP Volen Siderov. - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer one question from the MP Volen Siderov. - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev. - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer five questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Yordan Mladenov; Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; Dora Yankova; Donka Simeonova; and Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Stoyan Mirchev and one question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer one question from the MP Elena Axieva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions with written answer from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Alexander Sabanov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question written by the MPs Veska Nencheva, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov. Two questions; and Rumen Georgiev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the MP Petar Vitanov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov; - a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. The next regular plenary session shall be on 20 July 2018 at 9:00. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
