ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The National Assembly's Work Programme for the period from 24 to 26 January 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. Importer: Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 7 December 2017. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on Measurements. Importer: Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 7 December This Decision shall 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers: Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov and Dora Yankova on 15 December 2017. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening the regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the "Vik" sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017. Importer: The Council of Ministers on 20 November 2017. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. Adopted at first vote on 26 October 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 7. First vote on the bill amending the Social Assistance Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017 8. A bill for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva. Importer: Council of Ministers on 5 January 2018. 9. Vote for a draft decision to vote mistrust the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 January 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 25 January 2018 10. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Intelligence Agency (IAA) 2016 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Importer: Council of Ministers on 20 April 2017 Point 2 for Thursday, 25 January 2018. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a level of classification of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 11. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the Activity of the Service It's classified. Importer: Council of Ministers on 24 April 2017 Point 3 for Thursday, 25 January 2018. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a classification level under the Classified Information Protection Act. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017 Point 4 for Thursday, 25 January 2018 13. First vote on the Law amending the Law on the Film Industry. Importer: Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017 Point 5 for Thursday, 25 January 2018 14. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer: Christian Mitev and group of MPs on 13 December 2017 Point 1 for Friday 26 January 2018 15. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the National Assembly's work programme this week. Vote 188 MPs: 175, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 17 to 23 January 2017: - Draft decision to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. - A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. - Draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. - A bill to supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and Daniel Kirilov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. - Proposal for discussion on questions, No 754-05-57 of 23 November 2017, by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on the Agricultural Academy. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS TO PRODUCTS. Mr. Kanev, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u2	Colleagues, I will ask for permission in the hall of Lachezar Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I am voting on the motion for admission in this House. Vote 148 MPs: 144, against 3, abstention 1. Please invite the guests to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u4	In addition to the provisions of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products, No 702-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 7 December 2017. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 165 MPs: 165, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u6	By § 1, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u7	Thank you. Are there any statements on the wording of § 1 and § 2? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 1 and § 2 which are the texts of the importer and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: for 153, against none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u8	Under § 3, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 2 after the word "supplier', the employment contracts are registered in accordance with art. 62 of the Labour Code, and.............................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: For the issue of a certificate under para. 2 applicants shall submit an application in a model to the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, in which they shall record the unique identification code of the trade register, the seat, the address of management and the name of the legal representative, accompanied by the documents specified in the relevant regulation under art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 3 which the Commission proposes and which was presented by the rapporteur. Vote 158 MPs: 158, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u10	Under Paragraph 4, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the Art. 41a. Applications under art. 34a, para. Art. 5 and art. 36, para. 4 and the attached documents to them may be submitted electronically in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 4 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Kanev, for the tight presentation of the Law. Let's move on to the discussion of the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURING. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u12	Colleagues, he's even shorter than the last one. Report on the Draft Law amending the Measurement Act, No 702-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 7 December 2017. The Act for the Amendment of the Law for the Strategies. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u13	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the Law. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u15	Statements regarding the wording of § 1? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u17	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 147 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u19	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 3 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 160, against no, abstention 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 4 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVESTATION OF EXPENSIONS. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. Your Commission really works the most today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u22	This is the hardest committee, Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u23	We've already had the pleasure of establishing that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u24	♪ I can't believe Under the Law amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act, No 702-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 17 January 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, and Zhelyaz Enev Director of the Economic Policy Directorate for Promotion and Stamen Yanev Executive Director of the Bulgarian Investment Agency. The bill was presented by Lachezar Borisov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to bring the Investment Promotion Act into line with the amendments to the General Block Exemption Regulation in force from 10 July 2017, introducing new provisions against relocations to regional investment aid schemes. The adoption of the Bill will allow for the continued effective attraction and promotion of the implementation of existing and future important investment projects for our economy with a certificate issued under the Investment Promotion Act on the territory of the country, through the continuous provision of financial incentive measures which are an important instrument of investment policy. The second objective is to refine the existing requirements of the Law on Promotion of Investments for Clearing Investors and to reflect changes in other regulations to which the Law refers. This will facilitate investors applying for a certificate and implementing certified investment projects. The bill does not contain provisions relating to regulatory regimes in relation to entities. The adoption of the bill will not result in economic, social, environmental and other negative impacts. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act, No 702-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I give the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act, No 702-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December This Decision shall They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. The next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. Importers: Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Dora Yankova on 15 December 2017. Mr. Veselinov, please report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 754-01-87, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov and Dora Yankova At a regular meeting held on 18 January 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 754-01-87, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov and Dora Yankova on 15 December 2017. Representatives of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Emil Hristov. He stressed that the proposed amendments to the Bill are in two main guidelines. The first proposed change aims to compare the possibilities of the municipal council presidents with the other electoral posts following their termination and by analogy with the rules in the Election Code to have a legal opportunity to take up their previous post after their powers as council presidents have ceased. The second change aims to create conditions for clarifying the status and improving the organisation of the activities of the employees in the administrative unit supporting the work of the municipal council, thereby creating opportunities for better organizational and technical and administrative services and overall improvement of the organisation and activities of the municipal council and its committees. The Law proposes that the President of the Municipal Council, who, before his election as President of the Council, worked at a state or municipal office or undertaking, in a commercial company with more than 50 per cent state or municipal participation in capital or in a budgetary organisation, should have the right, after termination of his powers as President of the Municipal Council, to take up his former position, and in cases where he or she is closed another relevant position in the same or with his consent in another state or municipal office or undertaking, or in a commercial company with more than 50 per cent state or municipal participation in capital or in a budgetary organisation. The proposed additions to this part of the Bill are borrowed from the provisions of paragraph 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code, where the issue of MPs, the President and Vice President of the Republic, members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and mayors of municipalities, districts and mayors of the Republic of Bulgaria is similarly resolved. The second part of the amendments to the Law is justified by the existing problems in the practice and the difficulties which not a small part of the presidents of the municipal councils face in carrying out their powers. The proposed amendments to the Bill create the necessary prerequisites for the existing discrepancies and practical problems to be overcome. The establishment of the independent units to assist the work of the municipal council and its committees under direct subordination of the President of the municipal council will create conditions for improving their activities and will assist the President of the municipal council in carrying out his powers in the preparation, convening and holding of meetings and organizational-technical and administrative services of their activities. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the proposed changes in principle, paying attention to the need to refine the text relating to the appointment and release of the employees in the units supporting the activities of the municipal council in order to prevent or prevent further contradictions with the mayors of municipalities. The representatives of the National Association of Presidents of the Municipal Councils expressed strong support for the proposed changes. Their comments pointed out that under the current regulations the employees of the unit were appointed and released by the mayor of the municipality on a proposal from the President of the Municipal Council, but regardless of the provisions of the Law, certain problems were created in the practice of its implementation and did not contribute to improving the organizational and technical provision of the activities of the municipal council. In individual municipalities, there are no appointments by mayors of the proposed candidates or employees for whom no proposals have been made by the President of the Council. A significant problem also challenges the fact that in a large part of the municipalities the units are not structurally separate, such as the logic of the Law, and the employees are included in other structural units, they are assigned work unrelated to the activities of the Council, and are assessed by the relevant administrative leaders, who do not always relate to their actual work related to the organisation and activities of the municipal council. According to representatives of the Association of Presidents of the Municipal Councils with the proposed by the Bill changes the existing problems will be overcome. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 17 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal that the three MPs offer your attention to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration has its development steps since 2003 and in subsequent electoral laws. There is no dispute here that in this period when local self-government is validated, we have an interest at local level both authorities: the mayor, as majority elected and as trusting authority of the executive, cooperate effectively and according to the rules in the interests of the citizens with the other authority. In most cases, until 2003, especially until 2003, usually the mayor, as a position as a stronger political figure, somehow neglected the position of the President and the municipal council itself. Especially in recent years, when polarisation broke, when the mayor had his strong political support from his party, many scandals, many problems, many contradictions between the municipal councils and the mayors themselves appeared. I generally state my personal position that I am for the political majorities of the left, the right, the mayor to have serious political support because I see what is happening at the moment in the field. Perhaps in the future we should think about the Law, as a whole there are such practices in the European countries that the election of the mayor enables him to implement the programme and get a majority of municipal councillors to support it in order to calm the environment, and to show such a programme and policy. At the moment in the country we have a very colorful picture, very sharp contradictions in places that hinder local self-government, which are detrimental to the development of local communities. This law partly decides things with regard to business and political cooperation between the two bodies. In the first part, I think it is the most indisputable in which we say that the powers of the election councillor, who will become president of the municipal council, first among equals, to lead and organise the activities of the Municipal Council, is given the opportunity for him to go and organise this activity in the municipal council itself, to follow the rules of the Election Code, so that he can return to work. This in society and in people involved with municipal problems is most undeniable. In the second part, the Law gave this message in 2003 and this decision to form a unit to serve the President and the Municipal Council in organizing municipal meetings and meetings of municipal councils, including the overall activity of the Municipal Council itself: public discussions, reception and others. After signing the Bill, at least I had a lot of questions and a lot of discussions, especially from small municipalities. In this situation, in which large municipalities, such as Sofia, Burgas, Plovdiv and others, who have opportunities and a larger budget, is somehow not a problem to have an independent unit of self-interest, which, on a proposal from the President of the Municipal Council, organize the overall activity. As the mayor appoints the municipal officials and bears responsibility for them, the question arises immediately from the other group: should we not make a definition that where there is sufficient financial resources, a separate unit should be established on the proposal of the President of the municipal council and, accordingly, of the municipal mayor, but the characteristic should be fulfilled together because the employment relationship is still with the mayor himself? Perhaps this discussion will be between the first and second readings of the Commission and in consultation with the Association of Municipalities and with the Association of Presidents. Secondly, where we have small municipal councils up to 11, 13, 17 people, where the municipal administrations are small, there are many cases where the administrative and technical services have the task of serving the municipal council, to create such an organization, that is, this individual unit in this situation will be difficult to identify. We will separate two people in a small Municipal Council with a reduced administration, where a muttering begins in the municipal administration itself and some considerations from the mayors of small municipalities themselves. In this situation, we have more to clarify. Therefore, I will support today the Bill that the three Members have tabled because he and the previous National Assembly were supported by the Committee on Regional Development, and here in the Chamber, passed at first reading. There was no opportunity with the government's resignation to go to second reading. There was no argument. But to be more correct and to hear all of us hear all of the colorful and opportunity that we have, I suggest that we discuss this topic, that we be open to these proposals both in the possibility and in the overall palette that we have opportunities to make adjustments, especially in the second part, and rather to the small municipalities themselves. In this sense, I believe that the Law is useful because it enables the two authorities: the local self-government body, the municipal council, and the majority authority, the mayor of the executive power to cooperate in business. We have an interest as a legislative authority to support the municipalities and local self-government to have a good functioning of these bodies, to create these rules and even to announce further thinking about the really stable positioning of the political messages that come through the majority mayor and then to go to the municipal council. These very frequent shifts are not useful that are made in municipal councils, these hagglings.................. on five-six councillors......manies with compromises that do not lead to anything in the municipal councils themselves. And next, you know, at the time when Saxe-Coburg's cabinet was running, he gave the city councilmen the opportunity to be paid. This also creates partial tension. There are many mayors who, at the end of the term, sharpening their relations with municipal councils, say: "You see, with this money in these four years, we could make three-four streets." These are things that we must always hear, regulate them so that democracy can function fairly and well for citizens at the local level. And I think this bill is one of those steps that you've been working on for maybe 15 years. It's a process that develops. That is why I am asking you to support the Bill and between first and second reading to think precisely about these messages coming from below, from the municipalities themselves, from large and small, so that we can make fair legal regulation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Yankova? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I was the first one to make the most mistakes from that tribune when you were saying city councilmen. However, the experience I have as President of the Municipal Council, I believe that the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration have their logic. Although I personally, as a Member of the National Assembly, and also from the experience I have, I can say that some of the texts would not support them if the Bill remained the same. I mean the second part, which refers to the unit that serves the municipal council. What do I mean? First, in this way, the intended procedure for the release and appointment of the people who will work in the unit serving the municipal council to a certain extent contradicts the Law on the Civil Service Officer........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Even more so, if we find in the unit..................................................................................................... 29a, a man who is a civil servant, how do we assign functions to the President of the Municipal Council to demand his dismissal, who will not be under the law of the civil servant? But that's just one side. The other point I am expressing from this tribune right now is that very often we have started making changes to laws that are fundamental to democracy at both national and regional level. Here I am referring to the following fact: in December, with the adoption of the budget, we made major changes to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Now, in January, we start new changes. I believe that with such fundamental laws, we must be very precise in their change, and go through broad public discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 754-01-87. Vote 117 MPs: 114, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u32	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u33	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I am doing a procedure to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits, No 754-01-58, submitted on 20 September 2017, which we adopted just last Wednesday. In view of the opinions expressed by the various parliamentary groups, opinions on the need to investigate this issue continuously and carefully and in order to be able to produce qualitative proposals, I propose that the extension be up to the maximum period of three more weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I put to the vote the proposed extension of the deadline until maximum permissions are reached in the Rules of Procedure by the National Representative, Hristian Mitev. They voted 102 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. We're going to the fifth point of the program: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Mr. Veselinov, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening the regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the "Vik" sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017, No 702-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 18 January 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the Provision of Advisory Services for the Development of a Financing Strategy, Strengthening the Regulatory Capacity and Increasing the Efficiency of the Services provided in the "ViK" Sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017, No 702-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Malina Krumova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The purpose of the amendment to the Agreement approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017 is to extend the deadline for granting Result 7 "Strategie for financing of the sector "ViK" from 12 to 19 months and to withdraw Result 4 "Report for the implementation of the activities for re-evaluation of public water assets" under the scope of the Agreement. The extension of the deadline for the development of the Strategy aims to provide the necessary time resource to determine the size, sources and means of financing of the sector, which requires discussions between a large number of stakeholders. The proposed cancellation of the development of a Report on the implementation of the re-evaluation activities of public water assets is due to the inability to implement the report within the framework of the Agreement. The signed Amendment to the Agreement will result in a reduction of the agreed remuneration for consulting services by 100 000 BGN. The implementation of the activities and measures provided for in the Agreement and in the Amendment will contribute to compliance with the requirements of European environmental legislation, increasing the financial sustainability of consumers and reducing the price impacts on them. During the discussion Ms. Malina Krumova answered questions of the MPs concerning different details and activities on the development of the Financing Strategy, strengthening the regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector. The MPs united around the idea of the necessity and usefulness of the proposed draft Amendment to the Agreement. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, with 9 votes in favour, with no objection, and 4 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening the regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the VAC sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017, No 702-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I give the floor for speeches on the presented bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to point out that it is appropriate that representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works be present when we vote on a document, bill, amendment of a bill, addition to an international agreement. I think it is appropriate that at least one Deputy Minister be in the Chamber, since there are a lot of questions. Following the adoption of the 2016 Project to support the development of the water sector, this is another document or another amendment or another work that goes according to the following logic. The Cohesion Fund provides Bulgaria with money for management of the water sector under the Operational Programme of the Environment. The Operational Programme "Environment" provides them as a target beneficiary of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as a principal of the water sector. The MRB in turn provides them to a team of the World Bank and the World Bank with a team of 6 people who are described with senior experts, leading experts and assistants provides a Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Management of the Water Sector. There are a few problems here. This constant outsourcing of strategies beyond the competence of the state administration shifts the focus on Bulgaria's National Water Strategy, which this Parliament adopted in 2012. That is why I want us to be particularly careful and especially precise when comparing. Nowhere in the documents provided by the World Bank of this Strategy is spoken about the National Water Management Strategy. I'll hold off. This was also the position of our representatives in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The arguments are more than clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the plumbing sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017. Please, voting mode. They voted 92 MPs: for 69, against 1, abstention 22. The offer is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to change the points in the National Assembly's Work Programme: point 6 7 to become c. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs Angelova to exchange points 6 and 7 of the National Assembly's Work Programme, namely: 7 - First vote on the Draft Law amending the Social Assistance Act, to be considered as p. 6 a t. 6 in the announced agenda "Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Crop and Sewerage Materials, to be considered as point. 7. 100 MPs voted: 91, against 5, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE SOCIAL HELP LAW. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Social Assistance Act, No 702-01-59, with an importer of the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 17 January 2018, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Social Assistance Act, No 702-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Ioana Germanova, Head of the Department of Social Inclusion, Children and Family at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Ms. Nikolina Ivanova, Head of the Department of Social Services for Members of the Social Assistance Agency. The bill was presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The main motive for the proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act and the Child Protection Act is the reduction of the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. With the proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act, the requirement that persons not listed in the Commercial Register of the Registry Agency should apply to the application of the administrative registration service in the Register of Social Services Providers: - an original or certified copy of a certificate of state or registration issued by the competent court; - Certified copy of a card identification card under the BULSTAT Registry. The Agency for Service Social Assistance will consult the electronic database of the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and the BULSTAT Register. The period for re-certification of social service providers is foreseen to be dropped because the registration certificate is timeless and there is no reason for the persons to be limited by specific time limits for the renewal of their registration. The Final provision of the draft Law amending the Law on Social Assistance proposes amendments to the Law on Child Protection. Those amendments provide that providers of social services, when applying for the administrative authorisation service for the provision of social services for children, do not provide: - a copy of the BULSTAT registry identification card; - a certificate of current status; - a declaration that the applicant is not declared bankrupt, is not in insolvency proceedings and is not in liquidation; - a certificate of criminality of the person and for the legal persons.. a certificate of criminality of the members of their management bodies. The State Agency for Child Protection will consult the electronic database of the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and the BULSTAT Register. Only natural persons engaged in a commercial activity and legal persons arising under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union or of another State of the European Economic Area will present a certificate of criminality to foreign nationals and members of their management bodies and a declaration that they are not declared bankrupt are not in insolvency proceedings and are not in liquidation. These persons will also submit documents certifying their registration under their national law. The importers of the bill expect that the proposed bill will ease the administrative procedure for the registration of social service providers under the Law on Social Assistance by removing the requirement for the submission of official paper-based certification documents, as well as the facilitation of the administrative procedure for granting a licence to social services providers for children under the Law on Child Protection by removing the requirement for the submission of official paper-based certificates. A partial impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. A reference by the Ministry of Justice is also applied according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts on the Compliance of the Draft Law with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the relevant documents that I mentioned. A reference has also been attached, which reflects the opinions received after consultation of the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers on the approval of the Draft Law amending the Law on Social Assistance. Upon completion of the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote with results was held: 18 votes for the draft, no votes against the draft and abstention. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill amending the Social Assistance Act by importing the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I open the debates on the presented bill. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the first vote a bill amending the Social Assistance Act, No 702-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] May I have a moment of silence in this Chamber, fellow Members? They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. For procedure please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limit for proposals between first and second reading of the newly adopted Law amending the Social Assistance Act shall be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Dear Members of Parliament, I am voting on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Svetlana Naydenova to change the deadline between the first and second votes of the presented Bill to three days. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 87, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Mr. Veselinov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure to propose that we vote at second reading on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water supply sector, because at first reading there were no requests for amendment between first and second readings, and I think that this will facilitate our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Honourable Members of Parliament, I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov to examine the Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a strategy... Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 4, abstention 13. The offer is accepted. Mr. Veselinov, please present for the second vote the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 23 February 2016, signed on 2 November 2017. A single member. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I open the debate on the second vote on the presented bill. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the second vote the bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the plumbing sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Vote 105 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MATERIAL AND THE MATERIAL. Mrs. Taneva, please come in and present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By decision of the National Assembly of 12 January 2018, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 702-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2017 and adopted on the first vote on 26 October 2017, was returned to the Commission on Agriculture and Food for the revision of § 30 and § 31 of the Commission Report. In this regard, I would first like to make a procedural proposal for consideration and for a split vote on paragraphs 30 and 31 on the basic report of the quoted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u51	Please vote on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Ms Taneva for a split vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u52	We are going to vote as they have not been voted on, on Paragraph 30 of the basic report: 30. Where, at the date of entry into force of this Act, the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land is not repealed under art. 35 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land with an administrative act entered into force or an act of the Court of Justice, it shall retain its effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u53	Statements? I don't see any speeches. Please vote § 30 on the Main Report. Voted 103 MPs: 17 against 82, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u54	We move on to the vote of § 31 on the Main Report: ........................ 31...................................................... The time limits referred to in art. 34, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land shall also apply to the welded proceedings for which the one-year period from the entry into force of the detailed development plan for the property concerned has not expired on the day of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u55	Statements? I don't see any speeches. We are voting § 31 on the Main Report. 100 MPs voted: 94 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u56	In relation to the results of the previous vote on § 30 of the main report, we move on to the Additional Report to the Report. No 753-07-20 of 21 December 2017 on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 702-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017, adopted on the first vote on 26 October 2017. The Commission proposes to establish § 30 with the following wording: 30. (1) In the cases referred to in § 27, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) the person concerned may request confirmation of the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs by submitting a reasoned application to the Committee on Art. 17, para. 1 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. The application shall indicate the number and date of the change of purpose decision and shall apply: 1. a document of ownership or an established right of construction; 2.Instants or decisions issued in accordance with the procedure shall enter into force. of Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act; 3. a detailed development plan has entered into force. (2) The Commission under para. 1 shall decide on the application within one month from the date of its entry, giving a decision confirming the decision to change the purpose of the agricultural land or to refuse. The decision shall be notified and may be appealed under the procedure of The administrative procedural code. (3) In the decision confirming the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land, the Commission shall set the amount of the fee under art. 30, para. 1 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land at the time of the submission of the proposal tariff established by the Council of Ministers or indicates to be fixed the amount of the fee under art. 30, para. 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. (4) The difference between the fee paid to change the the purpose and fee under para. 3 shall be paid by the applicant or reimbursed. (5) In the period from 24 May 2017 until the entry into force of this law, a new decision has been given to change the purpose of agricultural land and the determined fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2 of the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, the person concerned may submit an application for annulment of that decision and a reasoned application under para. 1 confirming the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land. (6) In the cases referred to in para. 5 The administrative authority shall rule on applications lodged within one month from the date of their entry. Upon revocation of the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land, the fee paid for change of destination shall be reimbursed. (7) The decision confirming the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land shall lose legal effect within the time limits laid down in art. 24, para. 5 of the Agricultural Land Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u57	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the new § 30 of the Additional Report created. Vote 115 MPs: 109, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u58	Honourable Members, in relation to those who took the votes during the National Assembly meeting on 12 January 2018, we are going back to the main report with an IC. No 753-07-20 of 21 December 2017 on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 702-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017, adopted on the first vote on 26 October 2017. We shall continue with the vote of § 19 on this main report, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 37, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: "For the issue of authorisations for the industrial processing of tobacco and for the production of tobacco products, the persons referred to in art. 21, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 24, para. 1 submit an application to the Council of Ministers in which they indicate the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities to which they apply: 2. Point 1 is canceled. 3. Point 5 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u59	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 19, which shall become § 33 on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u60	They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u61	We move on to § 20 of an importer, which has received a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal received by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission generally supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 34: ................. In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For the registration of an animal health establishment, the persons referred to in art. 27, para. 1 submit an application to the Director of the relevant ODBH on a template containing: 1. the name, seat and management address of the applicant; 2. the permanent address, address and type of the veterinary establishment; 3. the names of veterinarians working in the veterinary institution, the details of their identity documents; 4. the numbers and date of issue of a veterinary education diploma to the manager and veterinarians working in the veterinary institution; 5. the numbers and date of issue of the certificate of membership of the BBC to veterinarians working in the veterinary institution. (b) in para. 2: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the application under para. 1 shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (bb) point 1 is repealed; (c) point 5 is repealed; (c) in para. 4 at the end is added and the official checks the membership of veterinary doctors referred to in the application. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 para. 3 is 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the words "dives national" shall be replaced by "maintains public national electronics." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "7-day term' shall be replaced by "three working days'; (b) in para. 3 the words "scope from "scopies' shall be replaced by "supplier number and date of issue', after the words "supplier' and "supplier' shall be added and the payment shall be added when the payment has not been made electronically'; (c) a new para shall be created. 4. In the case of a subsequent entry under para. 3 of the veterinarian who is already entered in the register under art. 32, the application is not subject to a diploma for completed veterinary education and a fee document. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 after the word "receipts" shall be added in the order of art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: For registration in the register of producers and traders of means of identification of animals, an application shall be submitted by model to the Executive Director of BABBH, which shall indicate the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities or BULSTAT Code. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a state-of-the-art document issued by a competent authority of another State, where applicable; (c) c. 5 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the traders under para. 1 submit in ODBX an application for registration on a template indicating the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (bb) c. 1 the words "single identification code" according to art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act or the Commercial Register Act shall be deleted and, finally, added, where applicable, to the Commercial Register; (c) point 2 is repealed; (dd) c. 3 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. (b) in para. 3 the words "7 days" shall be replaced by "three days" and after the abbreviation "ODBH" shall be added "servicefully check the registration of the site where the activity takes place." 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 2 the 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The owners or users of establishments shall apply for registration on a model to the Director of the relevant ODBH, which shall indicate the number and date of issue of a document for placing in service of the establishment where required by the Code of Conduct of the territory. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) point 2 is repealed; (c) c. 4 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: For approval of the teams under para. 1 The head of the team shall submit an application on a sample to the Director of the ODBH. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) c. 8 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The owners or managers of registered establishments where animal testing is carried out shall submit an application to the Executive Director of BABBH on a model for authorisation to use animals in testing. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (bb) point 1 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 after the word "supplied" is added "serviceful" and after the words "supplied" the registration of the experimental base and "supplied" is added. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: "For obtaining a licence for transport the persons referred to in art. 163 submit a model application to the Executive Director of BABBH. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall contain a number and date of issue of the registration coupon of the means of transport, the certificate of approval of the means of transport, the license to carry out the international/domestic transport of goods and the certificate of competence under art. 164, para. 1 of the driver and companion of the animals. The application shall be accompanied by: (bb) points 1, 2, 3 and 4 are repealed; (c) c. 8 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. (b) in para. 2 the words "verification" of "supplied" shall be replaced by "service inspection of the circumstances requested" and "supplied" shall be added after the word "supplied." 1.................................................................................. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 166, para. 1 in the text before t. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is replaced by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency on its website a public electronic website. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: For activity under para. 1 an application shall be submitted in a form to the Director of the ODBH, indicating the applicant's EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities or BULSTAT Code, number and date of issue of the Act for putting into service of the site, issued under the Order of the Code of Device in the Area, number and date of entry into force of an administrative act issued under Chapter Six of the Law on Environmental Protection and/or by the order of art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a state-of-the-art document issued by a competent authority of another country, where applicable; 2. a copy of the document on the right of ownership or the right of use for the site; 3. a document for a fee paid in an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 14, para. 2 where the payment is not made electronically. (b) in para. 3 after the word (c) in para. 5 the words "30 days' shall be replaced by "14 days'. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The operators referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be responsible for the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be responsible for the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 submit to the Director of the ODBH at their headquarters an application for registration according to a template indicating the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities or BULSTAT Code. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (b) in para. 3 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 16. Article 233 is amended as follows: Art. 233. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency maintains on its website a public national electronic register of sites under art. 229, para. 1 and operators under art. 229a, which contains the data from the ODBH registers. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 238, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "appliance".. is added by model. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246, para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: For registration of a means of transport for the transport of the premises under art. 245, para. 1 The owner shall submit a model application to the Director of the ODBH. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by the following: 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247 the words in the ODBX are taken up and replaced by the website of the ODBH a public national electronic website is maintained. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: A trader who wants to dispose of animal by-products or store such products shall submit to the Director of the ODBH an application according to a model for registration of an establishment under art. 259, para. 1 or 2 and installation under art. 259a, para. 1. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall specify the activity at the premises, the trader's AIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities and shall be subject to: (b) point 1 is repealed; (c) c. 4 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 264 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency maintains on its website a public national electronic register of sites and plants for disposal of animal by-products and for storage of animal by-products containing: 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 271. 2 is amended The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 14, para. 2 where the payment is not made electronically. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: For the issue of a marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products, the persons referred to in art. 278 submit an application on a template to the Executive Director of BABBH indicating the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities or BULSTAT Code. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, electronically under the terms and under the terms of art.5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." an up-to-date status document issued by a competent authority of another State, where applicable; (c) c. 7 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 290, para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency maintains on its website a public national electronic register of the issued licenses for the use of veterinary medicinal products under art. 288, para. 1 which contains: 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 292, para. 4 after the words. 14, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 300, para. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means and a sentence second shall be created: the application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the conditions and under the terms of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 314, para. 1 sentence 2 shall be created: The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: in the cases referred to in para. 1 the person wishing to acquire the rights of the marketing authorisation shall submit to the Executive Director of the BABH an application on a model. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) c. 4 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: A person wishing to advertise veterinary medicinal products shall submit to the Executive Director of BABBH an application on a model. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) c. 3 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329a, para. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means and a sentence second shall be created: the application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the conditions and under the terms of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: "For the issue of a license for the production of veterinary medicinal products, the persons referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 submit to the Executive Director of BABX an application on a template indicating the BULSTAT EIC, number and date of issue of an act for commissioning of the sites under art. 344 w/w 2, issued in accordance with the Law on Device in the Area. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) points 3 and 4 are repealed; (c) c. 7 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 350, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the word "waters" is replaced by "maintained" on its website public national electronics. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: 355 submit an application in accordance with a model setting out the number and date of issue of the certificate of entry into service of the premises for storage of IMPs in the Republic of Bulgaria, issued in accordance with the Law on Construction of the territory. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) point 3 is repealed. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: "For the issue of a licence, the person under art. 363, para. 1 shall apply on a sample basis. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall specify the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, number and date of issue of the Act for the putting into service of the wholesaler premises with the IMP, issued under the Law for Construction in the Area, number and date of issue of the diploma of the manager of the wholesaler facility with the IMP and shall be annexed to it: (b) points 1, 2 and 3 are repealed; (c) c. 5 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 366, para. 2 the word "waters" is replaced by "maintained" on its website public national electronics. 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 368 para. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: "For the issue of a retail license with the IMP, the persons referred to in Article 1. 373, para. 1 submit an application on a sample to the Executive Director of BABBH. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall specify the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, Number and Date of issue of the Act for the putting into service of the veterinary pharmacy issued under the Law for the Construction of the Area, Number and Date of issue of the diploma of the persons under art. 373, para. 2 and it shall be applied: (b) points 1, 2 and 3 are repealed; (c) c. 4 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 39. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 377 para. 2 the word "waters" is replaced by "maintained" on its website public national electronics. 40. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 379 para. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 41. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The manufacturer shall, for the issue of a certificate of registration of an in vitro diagnostic veterinary means, the person referred to in art. 410a, para. 2, submit an application on a template to the Executive Director of BABX, which indicates the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a state-of-the-art document issued by a competent authority of another State, where applicable; (c) c. 12 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 42. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 410e, para. 3 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency maintains on its website a public national electronic register of in vitro diagnostic veterinary medicinal products which have received a registration certificate containing:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Congratulations on bringing us this long text. Are there any statements on the wording of § 20? I won't. I put to the vote the text of § 20, which becomes § 34, and which was presented by Mrs Taneva as a text of the importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 125, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u63	According to § 21 of the importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In the Law on livestock production (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11e, para. 3 is amended as follows: The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall publish on its website an up-to-date list of independent accredited laboratories for the examination of raw milk. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "forewords' is deleted; (b) in para. 2 the word "forewords' is deleted; (c) in para. The second sentence after the word "application' is added to the template. (d) in para. 4 t. 5 the word "Foreigners" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 21, which shall become § 35. They voted 120 MPs: 116, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u65	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 3 the word "waters" is replaced by "maintains" on its website public electronics. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: 1 shall be recognised on the basis of an application on a template submitted to the Executive Director of the IRA indicating the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, name, registered office and address of the organisation. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) points 1.2 and 3 are repealed; (c) point 6 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Branch organisations shall be recognised on the basis of an application on a template submitted to the Executive Director of the IRA indicating the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, name, registered office and address of the organisation. The application shall be accompanied by: (b) points 2, 3 and 4 are repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) after the words "fishing', the words "fishing' shall be added to the Food Act'; (b) c. 5 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. (c) point 6 is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18f, para. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 is created. 8. For registration in the register, the persons referred to in para. 1 should hold the relevant permits under the Water Act, decision under Chapter Six of the Environmental Protection Act or authorisation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Biological Diversity Act, and when the technical facilities are in the waters of the Black Sea 2. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25a para. 2 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 1 shall be indicated according to the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, as well as the number and date of the relevant acts under art. 25, para. 8. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a document of ownership or a document certifying the basis for the use of sites of state, municipal or private property; 2. a technical description of the site and a technological scheme of production in accordance with the permits issued under the Water Act; 3. a document for a fee paid for registration where the payment is not made electronically; 4. a document setting a limit for production in accordance with the regulation under art. 25, para. 5; 5. Consistency sketches with the organs under art. 25, para. 2 when the technical facilities are in the waters of the Black Sea. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25b, para. 2 the documents presented shall be added to the information referred to in the application. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 after the words.................................................................................................................................................................. (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 1 shall be indicated according to the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities or BULSTAT Code, number and date of registration certificate under the Food Act. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a document of ownership or a document certifying the basis for the use of the site; 2. draft rules of the first sale centre; 3. a document for a fee paid where the payment is not made electronically. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46b, para. 2 the documents presented shall be added to the information referred to in the application. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words "single traders', the holder of a valid registration certificate under the Food Act shall be added; (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 1 indicate the name, seat and address of the management of the legal person or the sole trader, EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, number and date of the registration certificate under the Food Act or the certificate of registration of the means of transport under the Veterinary Activity Act. The application shall be accompanied by a fee payment document where the payment has not been made electronically. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46e, para. 2 the documents presented shall be added to the information referred to in the application.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 22, which shall become § 36 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 123, none, abstention 2. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u67	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, the relevant administrative authorities within their jurisdiction shall validate by order the forms of documents under this law and publish them on the website of the administration concerned. (2) By 31 December 2019, the relevant administrative authorities shall comply with the Law on Electronic Governance and its implementing regulations, the public registers held by the administration concerned. The Commission proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote § 23, which becomes § 37 in the version of the Commission, which was presented by Mrs Taneva, and the creation of § 38 with a text presented by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 2. Sustained. Moving on to the next point of our program: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF CONVENTION No 131 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE TRUDE FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE MINIMUM WORK PAINT, AS REFERRED TO ON 22 JUNE 1970 IN GENEVA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ademov, please come in and present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, No 802-02-01, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 17 January 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Temenuzhka Zlatanova, Head of Department at the Department of Strategic Planning and Demographic Policy. The bill was presented by Minister Petkov. He pointed out that the proposal to the National Assembly for the ratification of Convention No 131 can be seen as a serious step in the introduction of international labour standards in the area of pay in national law and that the International Labour Organisation (ILO) pays very serious attention to determining the factors and procedures for forming the minimum wage. According to the reasons of the draft Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the definition of the minimum wage, the parties are required to take into account, as far as possible and acceptable to national practice and conditions, two groups of factors having an impact on the size of the minimum wage: 1. The needs of workers and their families, taking into account the overall level of wages in the country, the cost of living, social security benefits and the relative standard of living of other social groups. 2. Economic factors, including economic development requirements, productivity levels and the desire to achieve and maintain a high level of employment. The ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation ensures balancing and predictability in the growth of the minimum wage. Under the Convention, the change will be made on the basis of a number of important socio-economic criteria, such as inflation, labour productivity, employment, gross domestic product dynamics (GDP), etc. A member of the International Labour Organisation who ratified Convention No 131, taking into account national conditions and needs, may take different forms to determine the minimum wage for the country, including through a regulation of the government. The procedures for determining and amending the minimum wage, taking into account national conditions and needs, must provide comprehensive consultations with the staff and employers' representative organisations concerned. Protocol No 23 was received to the Commission from a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, together with the opinions of employers' and trade unions. In addition, opinions of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria (AICB) as well as of the CST were received. Notwithstanding the observations made, all opinions support the proposed ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 18 votes for....... without votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, No 802-02-01, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova has the floor to present the Foreign Policy Committee Report. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation on the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, No 802-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on the ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation on the determination of the minimum wage adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." Convention No 131 was adopted in 1970 by the International Labour Conference of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) held in the town of Sofia. Geneva, Switzerland. The ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation will ensure balancing and predictability in the growth of the minimum wage. Under the Convention, the change will be made on the basis of a number of important socio-economic criteria, such as inflation, labour productivity, employment, gross domestic product dynamics and others. The Convention will also contribute to the joint objective of the government, trade unions and employers in response to the specific recommendations of the Council of the European Union to create a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage. The analyses of the norms of Bulgarian labour law, as well as our many years of practice, show that they meet the basic obligations arising for the country from the ratification of Convention No 131. Ratification of Convention No 131 is important for the introduction of international labour standards in the area of pay in national law. The Convention is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for the European Parliament, without the votes against the European Parliament, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation on the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, No 802-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u73	Dear Mr. President, perhaps we should pay attention to this Convention, because, as I see it, it has not caused such a great interest, including among the Members of the National Assembly, which is of interest to another convention which we are about to see recently. I will therefore draw attention to the Convention to give what is important to it, because Bulgaria has been a member of the International Labour Organisation since 6 December 1920, which means that it is recently 100 years since we are a member of this organisation. Since its establishment, the International Labour Organisation has adopted 188 conventions and 199 recommendations, with 8 conventions supplemented by 6 recommendations being considered fundamental because they govern basic labour rights and 4 other conventions supplemented by 6 recommendations are considered priority. So far, if I am not mistaken, Bulgaria has ratified 84 conventions, including all 8 fundamental and 3 of the priority, so we rank first among 182 member states of the International Labour Organisation. Today, we are going to consider the Draft Law on ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation, setting the minimum wage. She's from 1970. I and the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) as main holders of responsibility for hope and the fight for justice and the only ones we have set out to ensure reliable protection of the people of labour, the poor and the abandoned, the employees and to work for the formation of a broad middle class and for the progress of all, we consider the ratification of the Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation on minimum wage as a serious step towards the introduction of international labour standards in the area of pay and national law. Of particular importance to us is art. 3 of the Convention establishing, as far as possible and appropriate in relation to national practices and conditions, to take into account elements to be taken into account when determining the minimum wage level, namely the needs of workers and their families, taking into account the country's overall wage level, the cost of living, the benefits that ensure social security and the relative standard of living of other social groups, as well as economic factors, including the requirements for economic development, productivity levels and the desire to achieve and maintain a high level of employment. What's the situation now? In Bulgaria, wage issues are governed by the Labour Code. Bulgarian legislation has long imposed the notion of a minimum monthly wage. We do not have a separate minimum wage law and the notion of minimum monthly salary is imposed by the Labour Code and its art. 244. The minimum wage is determined by the Council of Ministers. However, representative organisations of employees and employers at national level through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation shall also participate in its designation. The minimum wage for the country is determined at national level, agreed on a normal working day duration of eight hours at both a five-day work week and calculated on its basis the daily and weekly minimum wage. Minimum social security benefits in economic activities and qualification groups of professions shall also be determined. There is serious experience and long-standing practice based on the negotiations between the social partners within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation on the size of the minimum wage, and over the years, and without ratifying this convention, there have been repeated attempts to set a mechanism for negotiating the amount of minimum wage, but the differences between the parties have never led to a concrete result. On 22 May 2017, the European Commission published again proposals for a recommendation of the Council of the European Union to Bulgaria, which reads: "In consultation with the social partners to establish a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage. In this regard, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy promised that by the end of June that year he would propose to the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation to discuss future actions on minimum wage issues. Again, he said he would insist on discussing a comprehensive package of concrete measures in the area of income and living level. I have no information on how far this discussion has reached on a comprehensive package of concrete measures in the area of income and living level, most likely nowhere, and otherwise on the mechanism for determining the minimum wage has serious disagreements, and arguments from the various countries in the trilateral dialogue have been put forward in favour of mechanisms such as a ratio between the minimum and average wage for the country, labour productivity, inflation, the means needed to support a member of household, a poverty line and whatnot. The minimum wage for the country has always been a very emotional topic, but lately the debate has been extremely heated. We often hear complaints from different backgrounds, especially from the right side of the political sector and employers' organisations, that the minimum wage is very harmful and that is why it must be removed. Its removal is almost a condition for increasing the pay of skilled workers and for paying enough for a normal standard of living, whatever that means. This, of course, is not accompanied by serious economic arguments, but is based on some incorrect interpretation of statistical research data, often taken out of context. It relies on the fact that society generally has poor economic knowledge and exposure to mantras for low labour productivity and that the minimum wage and its increase leads to the closure of proceedings and bankruptcy of companies, and hence to the closure of jobs. Without being deeply involved in the subject, it is expected that society will accept its normal dropout. And now, seeing that the opinions of employers' organizations are generally in favour of ratification, I wonder how they will explain until recently their fierce opposition to the existence and determination of the minimum wage? The Convention does not cause tension in society, unlike the other Convention that I mentioned to you at the outset. I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament, and I call for this, will unanimously ratify this convention. The interesting thing happens from here on out. I think that the norms of Bulgarian labour law, as well as the many years of practice, do not in any way contradict the spirit and foundations of this convention and the obligations arising from it, from ratification, even on the contrary. However, the expectations of our parliamentary group after ratification are that a transparent and sustainable mechanism for determining the minimum wage in Bulgaria will be established as soon as possible. This mechanism will be built on the basis of the most important socio-economic criteria such as inflation, gross domestic product dynamics, average wage growth, labour productivity, employment and so on. I'd like to believe that this will be a priority goal not only of the government, but of trade unions, and of employers. For now, without such a mechanism, as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy has said, the estimated amounts for the minimum wage for the medium-term budget forecast for 2018. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. On the basis of the actual growth of gross domestic product, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The increase in compensation for one employed and average annual inflation. I hope that I have no reason to worry that, after the new minimum wage mechanism has been developed, under the pressure of employers' organisations, we will pass the forecast increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2019. On 1 January 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 610 leva. Because I definitely think that the growth rate should be more tangible than planned in order to guarantee a normal payment to the Bulgarian employers. The support of the BSP for Bulgaria and for the ratification of the Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation will be yours. I hope that the entire Parliament will unanimously ratify the Convention, for the second time. I hope the government and social partners don't disappoint us in developing a precise mechanism for its determination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I guess there won't be any after the loud applause. Mr. Ademov, you have made a statement......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will only say a few sentences to make it clear what this is about. We are currently ratifying Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation, a Convention with a very long history. In 1970 it was ratified in this form by the International Labour Organisation, for ten years there was a discussion in Bulgaria when, how and under what conditions to ratify Convention No 131. More than that. At the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, opinions are always polarized when it comes to determining a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage. In fact, this Convention introduces minimum social standards for payment in national law depending on two factors. One type of criteria are the so-called social criteria. From the point of view of the definition of social criteria, there is a need for households, a line of poverty, a living level and so on, while economic factors include the growth of gross domestic product, labour productivity, include other elements such as average wages and so on. The condition to restore confidence in industrial relations within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was to sign precisely this Convention of the International Labour Organisation. It is no coincidence that in the last 7-8 years the European Commission in its recommendations to the National Reform Programme of Bulgaria always recommends that Bulgaria develop a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage, to develop the so-called.............................. which is not dependent on subjective factors but to be based on objective criteria. I therefore hope that today the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will by consensus support Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u76	Thank you. Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva, No 802-02-01, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. Procedure, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal for the ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation to be voted at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u78	Thank you. Dr. Ademov. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a second vote on the text. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please submit for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva A single member. Ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage, adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-24.u80	Statements? I won't. We move on to the second vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage. Please vote. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. Dear MPs, with this the National Assembly's work programme has been completed today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 25 January 2018 at 9.00, according to the programme adopted for work. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
