ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, you know that every first session of the year is opened with the anthems of Bulgaria and the European Union. Please stand up and listen to them. [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thank you. Honourable Members, allow me, on the first parliamentary day of the new political season, to congratulate you with the arrival of the new year 2018, to wish you health, understanding, consensus, trust and more productive debates and convergence of positions on the key issues for our country. On the day Bulgaria officially takes over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, let us be aware that we are the national team of Bulgaria and that our actions and messages that we are broadcasting will form the attitudes of the European elite. Let us wish for constructiveism, a sense of community, more results and less sermons than the parliamentary tribune. Let us look at the European Presidency not as a background for left or right populism, but as a cause for cohesion, not for opposition. Let's put aside our innate nihilism, aggressive denial. Solitaires are looking at the opera. The Bulgarian Parliament is high time to behave like a well-done orchestra. Let's make it a good and prosperous new year 2018! [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, we're moving on to work. I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for 11 and 12 January 2018. 1. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. The first vote was adopted on 26 October 2017. 3. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on State Fees. Importers are Mikhail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 22 November 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers are Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. Adopted at first vote on 15 December 2017. 5. A new discussion of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 274 of 29 December 2017 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 6. First vote on the Bill amending the Property Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. Point 2 for Friday, 12 January 2018 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Aleksandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Colleagues, this Friday, we will not have parliamentary control, so we agreed at the Conference of Presidents, because the ministers will be engaged in meetings with the guests of the European Parliament and the European Commission. However, next Friday will be a full day for parliamentary control. I put to the vote the so-read Programme Project. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev says there is a problem with the voting board. There are also requests from other MPs.]] There's a problem in the whole room. I'll wait as long as it takes, Mr. Tsonev, for everyone to vote. Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 212 MPs: 177 against 1, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, a proposal has been made on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by Mrs. Cornelia Ninova for holding a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the criminogenic situation in the country and the measures taken to ensure the work of the institutions and the security of the citizens. I give the floor to Mr. Stoinev. Here you are to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, first in one second, Madam President. I'm shocked by what you said that we almost shouldn't be doing sermons here. We are MPs here and defend Bulgarian national interests. I think your first introductory words were extremely inappropriate here for a parliamentary democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not our fault that there are nine protests today. One of these protests, or rather all related to the disintegration of institutions, statehood. This concerns, in particular, our national security. The Prime Minister is responsible for the national security of the country and that is why our request is most polite, calm, humbly inviting him to come here to parliament and explain what is happening in the country, in view of the frequent killings, which, according to the Interior Minister, were initially some domestic incidents. But these murders definitely scare the Bulgarian citizens, certainly the state cannot deal with them at this stage and that is why we want the Prime Minister to come here to the Bulgarian Parliament and explain the concrete steps and actions that are being taken because people are really scared. Sadly, some people also lose loved ones, friends of theirs. Therefore, I think it is normal here in the Bulgarian Parliament to see what are the first steps taken so that people are calm that there is a state that there are institutions that care for the security of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I would like the floor by procedure in order to develop the opposite opinion of what my colleague has presented to your attention. Parliamentaryism has many instruments and many forms of control both in relation to specific events and in relation to data collection, facts and circumstances on specific topics and problems. In this case, my objection concerns the need for such a hearing by the Prime Minister and precisely today, provided that the Internal Security and Public Order Committee has scheduled a hearing of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, including with the participation of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor of the Sofia City Prosecutor. So the competent committees will gather the relevant facts and circumstances and, if necessary, a continuing debate, I suppose that would then arise. In addition, we are all aware of the public fact that on yesterday there was a meeting of the Advisory Council for National Security, where the entire public found out about the debates, the submitted reports and the positions of the parliamentary parties. So, colleagues, every parliamentary party represented has taken directly and directly the relevant information about this relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u6	Madam President, I take advantage of the right of this procedure, because in Mr. Stoinev's statement it was said that we should be a little more humble. Mr. Stoinev, I've done my best in connection with a statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u7	To me, Mr. Mareshki, isn't it the way it is?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u8	Madam President, I have done my hard work in connection with a statement by Mr. Stefan Danailov, I have checked and found that at the moment when he was Minister of Culture not only voted...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u9	What does that have to do with the way we conduct things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u10	You'll find out. Not only have they voted, he is an importer of a draft budget in which the pensions of the Bulgarian citizens were 100 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u11	On the subject, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u12	It's on the subject. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's exactly the point...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u13	To me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u14	Yes, to you. The theme is that the protests... [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] It was about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u15	It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u16	You can't understand logic. It's not my fault. It makes perfect sense, but you can't listen to me. [[(Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.) Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u18	It is about the fact that the protests that are at the moment are not responsible only now for the government, but for the whole transition, all those who ruled during the transition. You really need to be a little more humble because for the condition of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u20	...it's everyone's fault right now. Thank you. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, it is unacceptable for you to permit suggestions to be made here. Mr. Kirilov said here that everything is accurate, that everything is clear that they have made the necessary press conferences. This is true, by the way, why is it that today a meeting of the Internal Committee is being convened on this particular occasion, with the presence of the Attorney General? Please do not permit such suggestion. We believe that at this very moment the Bulgarian society, given the high public danger of these cases, especially the important political moment for our country, should be reassured and there is nothing wrong with the Prime Minister coming here and saying what is being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. I shall put to the vote the proposal made on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure in relation to Art. 113 for hearing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov. They voted 207 MPs: for 100, against 69, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I'll read you the messages that came in when the Assembly wasn't working. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 December 2017 to 10 January 2018: - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee shall be the Committee on Health; - A bill to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers are Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - A bill to amend the Property Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - A bill to amend the Social Assistance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for January June 2017 and budget of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2018. Import is the Bulgarian National Bank. The Committee on Budget and Finance; - Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead; - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - A bill for ratification of Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation for the determination of the minimum wage adopted on 22 June 1970 in Geneva. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - On the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 2 January 2018 a Decree No 274 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received, according to art. 101 of the Constitution, in which the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property was adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it; - On 28 December 2017, a report was received in the National Assembly on the implementation of the Preparation Plan of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 at 15 December 2017, adopted by Decision No 788 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was submitted to the parliamentary groups and to the Standing Committees. The material is published on the website of the government on the Internet and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - In the act of t. 1 of the National Assembly's decision of 19 September 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov, on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations, reports have been received by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov as follows: - On 28 December 2017, a report including: 1. Analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use, ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. 2. Project of a strategy for management and development of land ownership in Bulgaria. - On 10 January 2018, a report including: 1. Analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. 2. Strategy for management, development of land ownership in Bulgaria. The last report was reviewed and approved at the Operational Meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 3 January 2018 and by a resolution of the President of the National Assembly was submitted to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. The reports are sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. - On 3 January 2018, in the implementation of a decision of the National Assembly of 15 December 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on the questioning of the National Representative Rumen Gechev on public debt, it was addressed by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, which was approved by Decision No 663 of 1 November 2017 of the Council of Ministers Strategic for the Management of Public Debt for the period 2018 - 2020. The material was sent to the National Representatives of their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Communication from the Court of Auditors: A programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2018. The programme was submitted on 22 December 2017 by letter from the President of the Court of Auditors indicating the priority areas for carrying out audits. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Other messages: - The National Assembly has received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 November 2017. "24 December 2017, and Protocol No 1 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 3 January 2018, at which the Report has been reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about: R &amp; D indexes in the section of the R & D &amp; R &amp; D &amp; R &amp; R &amp; D &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; D in November 2017; Industrial Production Indexes in November 2017; Construction Indexes in September 2017; Key Indicators for the Development of the Economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 29 December 2017. The materials are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we have a proposal for a decision No 4936 in the National Assembly of 21 December 2017 of the Central Election Commission for the declaration of a Member of the National Assembly. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 4936 "НС" of 21 December 2017 on the announcement of Radoslava Plamen Chekanska as MP from the 10th Election Region "Kustendilski" With an I.V. letter. No NS-02-72 of 20 December 2017 of the CEC received a decision of the National Assembly of 20 December 2017, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are terminated the powers of Ivaylo Lyubenov Konstantinov as MP from the 10th Election Region "Kustendilski," erected from the list of political party GERB in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to Decision No 4935 (CEC) of 21 December 2017 the Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED He declared Radoslava Plamen Chekanska as a MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly on the list of political party GERB, from the 10th Election Region of Kyustendilski. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. The Quaestors, please invite the new MP for an oath. Please, let's get up. Please, repeat after me:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u24	I pledge in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u25	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u27	Colleagues, I propose a procedure for broadcasting the declarations and statements of the parliamentary groups on the Bulgarian national television channel 2. Please vote. Vote 195 MPs: for 194, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, guys. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come for a first statement from the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, guests and representatives of the media! Let us be happy for the new year 2018 to wish it to be healthy, peaceful and good! Let us work wholeheartedly for the national interests of the country and to achieve good and fast results! I believe that the new year will be very dynamic and beneficial for the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. Forty-fourth Parliament is the first National Assembly to sign up for six parliamentary events during the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union in its programme. Thus, the new year opens a new cycle of challenges both to us as a parliament and to the ruling team of the country. Eleven years after our accession to the European Union, we have to show political culture and loyalty to European values. In the next six months Bulgaria is President of the Council of the European Union and the good European news and political messages to the whole of Europe will start from Sofia. This makes our work as MPs irreparably more responsible because we know that the people of Bulgaria do not want us to be a background in the choir of European voices. We wish our voice to be heard more and more people to listen to it. I therefore appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to make it clear that we have no right to waste our chance to hear the voice of Bulgaria. We must speak responsibly, work fruitfully and be guided only by the national interest of the country. Partisan political passions cannot contribute to the achievement of our national goals during the Bulgarian Presidency. However, the fact that we are in charge of the Council of Europe during the first six months of the year does not mean that we must at all costs strive to achieve unprincipled unanimity or false agreement between each other. We have no intention of humiliating the opposition's role in our political life. However, we expect the political messages from the opposition to be valid and well argued. Our European partners have seen scandals and intrigues and protests. In this sense, the intentions to provoke passions during the Presidency cannot achieve their great effect, which some aim. They can only talk about low political culture and harm the country's image. The Bulgarian people demonstrate an increasingly conscious European empathy. Attempts to oppose our national roots of our European belongings are doomed to failure. The Bulgarian is genuinely interested in the work of the European institutions and the European agenda, which is as close as possible to our country's agenda. People expect during our presidency to hear that they are seeking and making decisions on important problems for our country. The positive trends of economic growth and financial stability are expected to accelerate and deepen in every way to become tangible to the individual. I cannot ignore the fact that the main events of the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency will be six in number, and for three of them it is expected that nearly 300 delegates and guests will come to our country. From 21 January and 22 January, the Committee on European Affairs of the Bulgarian Parliament has hosted a meeting of the Chairs of the Committees on European Affairs of the European Parliaments in the European Union. In principle, it is imperative that the first interparliamentary conference of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Presidency be that of the Chairs of the Committees on European Affairs. At this high forum we will present and clarify the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, adopt the framework of the COSAC six-month report and discuss the draft agenda of the plenary KOSAC. On 21 January there will be a meeting of the Cosac Chairman's Troika and the meeting of the Committee Chairs will take place on 22 January. The aim of the President's Troika is to discuss and approve the agenda and topics of the conference. From 15 to 17 February, the Bulgarian Parliament hosted an Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy. The Committee on Foreign Policy and the Defence Committee will be engaged in these conferences. From 19 to 20 February, the European Parliament in Brussels will host an Interparliamentary Conference on Stability, Economic Coordination and Governance in the European Union. The conference will be organized and chaired jointly by the European Parliament and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. The focus will be on improving accountability in the area of economic and budgetary policies of the European Union, especially with regard to economic and monetary union, taking into account social aspects and without prejudice to the powers of national parliaments. From 18 to 19 March, the Joint Parliamentary Control Group of Europol will meet in Sofia. It will then be the second meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Control Group, which took place on 9 and 10 October in the European Parliament in Brussels. The work on the adoption of the procedural rules will continue in Bulgaria and the control and supervisory functions of Europol's activities will be carried out. A meeting of the Chairs of the Energy Committees of the National Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union will be held in Sofia from 13 to 14 May. The common objective of the debate is to ensure more secure, accessible and environmentally friendly energy for the citizens of the European Union. From 17 June to 19 June, Sofia will host a plenary session of the Conference of Committees on European Affairs of Parliaments in the European Union. Each national Parliament, as well as the European Parliament, will be represented by a six-member delegation. The plenary KOSAC is a final meeting from the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency. At this meeting, documents on the joint contributions and conclusions will be drawn up, voted and adopted, which will present the position of national parliaments on issues on the European Union's agenda and will comment on the activities of KOSAC for the period of the Bulgarian Presidency. During the Bulgarian Presidency we will pay special attention on the topics: migration, security, defence and digitalisation. The priorities for our presidency are set by the Presidential Three. The first is related to economic development, jobs, growth and competitiveness. The second relates to the social policies of the European Union. The third priority is to build the European Union and climate policy. The fourth priority is security and justice, which includes the issues of migration and justice, two topics which are extremely important for Bulgaria. Our fifth priority concerns foreign policy highlights in the work of the European Union, which are once again interacting with issues such as security and migration policy. The commitments of the Bulgarian Parliament during our Presidency are serious and responsible, but they will not thwart our intentions to implement the planned legislative programme but can only stimulate our national legislation. The priorities of GERB for the next six months are reduced to legislative initiatives in the following directions: - legislative initiatives to strengthen public policy and security; - legislative initiatives in the field of education and the labour market; - legislative initiatives in the field of health and the introduction of a new accessible model for health care. For us, the task of dealing with corruption has no alternative, which is why we are ready to debate the controversial issues in the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. However, any delay in anti-corruption legislation is essentially working in favour of corruption and delaying effective judicial reform over time. And here it starts to become once again clear which are the wires of strategies to postpone anticorruption legislation. We have taken concrete action to develop larger and more effective measures, thereby declaring our willingness to counteract corruption in all its forms. We have made efforts to limit the possibilities for the exercise of corrupt practices, as well as to introduce a stricter regulation for the sanctioning of such negative phenomena. Our political action towards specific cases of corruption has always been transparent and, above all, decisive and swift. It was GERB who reacted quickly and decisively to the cases of corruption. Bulgarian society should be aware that corruption does not have a preferred party decoration. The people in our country, however, remember where the corruption practices started and who their faces were. The same people are now turning the topic of corruption into a political instrument with which they hope to achieve their goals of changing power. In the foreign policy plan, we will aim to expand and deepen cooperation in our region. The Bulgarian government in recent months has set new standards of communication with the Western Balkan countries. It is no accident that High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini and EU Commissioner for Neighbourhood Policy and Negotiations for EU Enlargement Johannes Hahn called our treaty with Macedonia an inspiration for the entire region. The European perspective and connectivity of the Western Balkans at our insistence has become a priority of the Presidency of the European Union from the trio of Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria. Our political and cultural contacts with Turkey are increasingly the result of a nationally responsible foreign policy, not sporadic efforts by individual parties. Our diplomatic moves were welcomed well by both the countries in the region and the European institutions and their leaders. Our priorities in the field of foreign policy are for Bulgaria's accession to Schengen and the Eurozone, as well as the dropping of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. We will also consistently stand for our position that joining Schengen would contribute to better protection of the external borders of Europe. My fellow Members, I believe that we are all obliged to implement with content the motto and logo of our European Presidency: The Union makes the force! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Next statement Mrs. Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let 2018 be peaceful, healthy and better for Europe and for our people, and let us have our contribution and our share of this to happen, especially with the chance Bulgaria has, to be Presidents of the Council of the European Union! Always on the first day of the new session, we define and outline the most important issues that we think we need to solve. Often they are the most important from our point of view, but sometimes it has happened to get away with the important topics of people outside this room. That is why today I propose a different approach to talking about priorities and tasks. What did reality in the first ten days of the new year 2018 show us, what did you point out as problems that society suffers from and expects us to solve? Ten days from the beginning of 2018, ten major problems and one chance, an opportunity for Bulgaria the Presidency. First, I will serve with examples of this real life in the last ten days and I will quote: "Our people continue to disappear" 2017 marks a sad record for the period after forty-five. Only 57 thousand babies were born by 7809 less than the previous year. No fanfare, no doodles or praises for a high standard can overturn this fact. That's right! Secondly, the association of municipal hospitals in Bulgaria announced that 40 municipal hospitals are going to protest because they are facing bankruptcy. No fairy tales about how much money is being given for health care and how much it has improved, can not cancel this fact 40 municipal hospitals are going to protest! Thirdly, teachers and students from vocational schools found out in the first days of the year what an educational reform was. Suddenly the media found that they were studying the Renaissance without studying the previous ten-century historical period of the Middle Ages and that many of them did not know who the Bulgarian king Samuel was. And the Bulgarian teachers came out with an assessment that this was due to the premature entry into force of the new School Education Act. Fourth, on 5 January it was announced that electricity would increase, and from there it would increase food. The price of electricity for the business jumps by up to 60% on 5 January was announced, and the inevitable consequences of this, says the business, will lead to an appreciation of the products as well as of the household. No talk of increasing minimum wage and pensions cannot cancel the fact that the appreciation of life has already eaten this increase and that the conclusion is: our people continue to impoverish. Five, it's leaking, everything's running a sanitized block for three million levs. News at the beginning of January. The building didn't have any problems before the renovation, people say, and now freshly sanitized, flows from everywhere, and every rain is flooded. And the fence at the border fell again in the first days of this year. Is this about corruption in construction and sanitization? I'm just asking. Sixth, speaking of corruption, leading authoritative media, the Guardian, the "Di Zeit" agency, the "France Press" agency, not to mention all of them, flooded us with Europe's assessments: the most corrupt state in Europe takes over the presidency. "Corrupted, but comfortable and willing" wrote "Dee Zeit". The Bulgarian President vetoed the anti-corruption law with the statement that there is no political will to fight corruption. Not us, colleagues, the media from France, Germany and Britain, and not partisan struggles for the European Presidency, and no sermons from the platform say that Bulgaria is the most corrupt and poor country, but it is convenient because it is obedient. [[Noise.]] Seventh, super exotic and surprising people from three districts in Bulgaria - Vratsa, Vidin and Montana - decided to organize a signature for separation from Bulgaria, to join Russia, Romania [[crowd cheering and laughter in center and right]] because corruption fought there, and not in Bulgaria. Such a thing has not happened in the history of Bulgaria. Someone will think that it can separate from Bulgaria because it is not fighting corruption and in Romania it is contributing to the management of Boyko Borisov. Eighth, the government split not only on the partners' axis.. Patriots against GERB, as it was for the lift, but also on the Patriots axis and part of GERB against another part of GERB under the Istanbul Convention. As much as you say that the government is stable, you see that every day you give new reasons for contradictions between yourselves. Nine, I don't remember who said it first, but we started the year like this: 8 days. 8 corpses, family murders, tax shooting, murder in broad daylight of a big businessman close to power, and power didn't react adequately, but the people reacted. This is where I come to the tenth problem we've had these 10 days. The people are on the street protesting, protests and protests: policemen, green, against rising the price of water, against increasing the price of electricity. The people are on the street! Here's 10 news for the first 10 days. And a chance the Presidency is a chance for the authority of Bulgaria, for the protection of Bulgaria's national interest, for visionaryism for Europe and Bulgaria. We have 10 news, some of which are in a small carriage, but they are placing 10 major state and political issues. And here we're telling you not as opposition, we're going to try as statesmen. We melt as a people, less heal, less educate, impoverished. Corruption has taken hold of everything, crime has taken the brunt of murder. The people can't stand and go out on the street anymore, they want an alternative! This is the picture for the first 10 days of 2018. We will work for this alternative that society and people expect. All of these problems, starting with demographics and ending with protests, are due to two reasons - a misguided policy in systems, in health models, in education, in income policy, and corruption in all systems. We can't solve problems in pieces, fellow Members! We need to change models and whole systems in Bulgarian society. You suggest solving a piece. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will protest well, we will give them 15 million and solve the problem of science. No, we don't! Instead of science being a motor and engine of the economy and the progress of the state, it is placed in the corner. That way we won't solve any problems. We suggest that we focus on the BSP as an alternative, that we focus on two things: radical change of the overall system of models, of the existence of these systems. We offer, and we start with the first priority for this session, in healthcare a new model of the health system with a focus on state and municipal; a new model of education with an emphasis on the quality of education and the content of the programmes, as well as its commitment to the economy; a new model of income policy that goes through a new economic policy, a new attitude of the state towards economic policy with an emphasis on production! In particular, Bulgarian production. The second priority is an uncompromising and uncompromising fight against corruption. You have one last chance to correct your policy by supporting the veto of the president of the Anti-Corruption Act. This law shows reluctance to fight corruption. We don't tell you that, and don't call us anti-corruption fighters. That's what your German partners in c tell you. It is written that this law makes laughter and that it is for students. German source, fellow Members, not BSP! On the 17th, we'll vote a no-confidence vote on corruption. Some say, "Why do they do it on the doorstep of the Presidency?".... the Government will not fall................................why waste our time and create tensions, fight guerrilla wars.................................................... Because this government creates conditions to steal 10 billion. lv. Annually. Because according to Mr. Tsvetanov, it is not my opinion or my colleagues, it is a European agency that says that 83% of Bulgarians point to corruption as a major problem of the state. Because according to Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian employers, 88% of them say that public procurement is assessed subjectively and 80% of the orders are written so that a specific pre-defined contractor can take them. This is what life tells you, employers, Europe, our partners! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And we won't shut up about it! You say six months to keep quiet. No! Because this, as I told you, is not just our words, but the general assessments of the people and of the partners. The Presidency as the most important priority is the chance, honourable rulers, to clear the image of Bulgaria. This is a chance for the government of Boyko Borisov not to turn a blind eye to the problems and not to say as before: "BSP is the bad one" and since the European partners point to your problems, you say: "Ama and they are corrupt and there they are stolen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Look for the problem and let this Presidency be appreciated not only as a good household, let it be a chance for Bulgaria to solve two problems and achieve two goals. There is now a discussion about when the Presidency would be successful, what assessment we will give not now, at the beginning the assessment, which is bad, and finally what assessment you will receive. In our opinion, the achievement of two goals. The first goal is to end up with our partners, and the people to say that for these six months, corruption has decreased dramatically or halved.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u31	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u32	I'm done. And the second is that our people say that in these six months at least its standard of living has come close to the standard of living of European citizens. This would be a successful policy for us by the Presidency of the European Union. We'll work on it! We will be constructive when our position requires that this goal be achieved. But do not think that we will be silent when you make mistakes and instead of achieving these goals, you lead Bulgaria back. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the United Patriarchs? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable journalists! I wish in the new year and to all compatriots by the way, but especially to the MPs, to be cured of the worst Bulgarian disease. This is envy, masochism and masochism, because lately I have heard such masochistic statements that I just get sick. This self-spitting no one else can do it as we ourselves do that we are the worst, that we are the most corrupt, most corrupt. Let's stop referring to newspapers and publications in which Bulgarians from NGOs give opinions and this opinion is published through these newspapers. This scheme has been known for a long time, so let's stop quoting authoritative publications because all the publications in the world are running errands. Today, 11 January 2018, it must be marked as a historic day, because we are Presidents of Europe. 11 years ago, out of this tribune, I uttered a sobering word and said, "Take your time with the euphoria. The European Union is not God's, where you enter and start swimming. There will be many negative things that we will not like. " - Years have passed, and it turns out that I am right about a lot of things. Now, at the moment, what I spoke 11 years ago, it is said by leaders in the European Union, leaders of large countries. But today we are starting the Presidency of the European Union with an unprecedented government. During the transition to today, patriotic formations have not been involved in power, in the ruling majority and in the executive power. What we entered the Union 11 years ago was unthinkable, today is a reality, and not only in us. The next household will be Austria, where also the Party of Freedom, similar to the United Patriarchs, is now in the executive power. The world has changed since 2007 and this is clearly visible. The neoliberal doctrine gives way at the expense of conservative political ideas, which are expressed by both the United Patriarchs and the centre-right parties. I remember very well in 2000, when the Freedom Party, led by Haider, then.. Jorg Haider, won a very good election result and was about to enter power. It caused shock and horror. Austria was isolated, Austria was quarantined and threatened by total isolation from European and non-European countries. Now we see the same party in power. And nothing's going on, no one's boycotting, no one's protesting. This means that the world has changed, and those ideas that we have been developing for years are already the ideas of too many Europeans. They can't stay in the corner, they can't remain exotic, they're already political reality and no one sees anything scary about it. On the contrary, our European partners will now see that we, the United Patriarchs, are a system and not an anti-systemic party, as some of our opponents have suggested over the years, because a well-functioning system cannot exist without balance. In order for there to be a balance, there must also be conservative-traditional political ideas. Bulgaria will show during this household that the management is stable, that these hints of instability, uncertainty or similar intrigues that are being heard are not true, because they simply reflect what we see and which is interpreted in a similar way simply reflects the difference in the parties that make today's ruling coalition; a difference which, however, gives diversity and does not lead to division and collapse. Our presidency will pass, I am convinced, and will end with the firm conviction of our European partners that in Bulgaria the patriotic formations are a reliable and stable political partner. This will forever reverse the notion of such political formations, which so far have always been branded, antisystemic or unwanted. This process is going throughout Europe. I said it, and that's what I'm going to sum up, that Europe will never be the same from then on. The most important thing is that Bulgaria is in step with these trends. It does not fall behind, as has been done many times in other respects. Bulgaria is at a pace with the trends that are European, even global, the tendency to have greater domination of conservative ideas; the tendency to stop the neoliberal, globalist concept, which has done a lot of damage and led to financial crises worldwide. In the last year's internal plan, for just a few months of management, the Coalition GERB "Sunified Patriots" showed that it can be worked for the standard of Bulgarians both within the currency board and within the framework of an undeveloped economy such as the Bulgarian economy. Tens of changes were made to legislative and regulatory, which led to the relief of the Bulgarian business. He, for his part, the private business, because we have no other way, administratively we cannot make him, he in turn responded by raising the income of his employees by an average of about 10%. This has never happened. It was also not the case for 824 thousand Bulgarians to receive an increase in pensions at the same time. This hadn't happened during the whole transition. [[Exhilaration and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Maybe it's not big, [[screams: come on!]] It may not be big, but it's an increase that she feels. Increase in the teacher's guild sector. This is also a very important segment of our society. Over 100 million. lv. were set aside to raise the salaries of the servicemen, again thanks to the pressure of the United Patriarchs and the coordination between the United Patriarchs and our representatives in the executive power, and the Council of Ministers as a whole. During the coming year, our goal is to continue with such pragmatic, practical moves to show that we can work for the good of people without many pathos and slogans. What do I mean? It will continue the policy that the Ministry of Economy has started, but, of course, in combination with the entire Council of Ministers, with the assistance of the Prime Minister to make a single fund. This is a very important step.. something that has also not been done before. A fund to provide scholarships for our young people so that when they go to study outside, they come back, have an arrangement to come back and work here. In this way, we hope to make sure that at least some of these young people are detained in Bulgaria, that we do not become donors of other more developed, richer economies than we are now. It will also continue the policy for easing business conditions, for such regulation that there is more territory for entrepreneurship, to have more opportunities for investment outside, for which there are now good conditions, to develop industrial zones, to develop industries of a high-tech nature, for which Bulgaria has scientific potential, but it has not been fully used so far. There are these conditions, and you'll be working on it. We will be guaranteed that this line of conduct will continue a line of raising the standard of living, of improving the conditions for business, of raising the social climate. In the past year, in just a few months, so many things have been done that have not been done in social terms for years, although governance is run with a centre-right nature. This shows that when you have government care, you can be social even if you're right. No clichés, no prints. We shouldn't slave to labels anymore, because, as we can see, the world is very dynamic. The world is changing all the time, we have to have it, and we are ready for it. Bulgaria is currently playing a balancing role in the Balkans region, both in European terms and as a link between non-European and European countries. I think that Bulgaria has never had a better position before. This is how it will continue this year and let us pay less attention to custom writings in foreign writings and in our media, which will fill us with negativity and masochism, I will say again! These diseases to start treating them, they do not require a clinical path, nor a Health Insurance Fund, they are a matter of self-growth. I hope to see this growth in all Bulgarian politicians, statesmen, public figures that depend on the lives of the Bulgarians. God save Bulgaria, which today protects all Europe! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Mr. Karadaye, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to congratulate all Bulgarian citizens the new year 2018 with wishes to be peaceful and successful for everyone and for Bulgaria! The political event with which the new year began for our country is undoubtedly taking over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Bulgaria is taking on this responsible role for the first time since its membership in the European Union. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are aware of how important it is for the country to fulfil this role with content, to show our European partners hospitality, building and management potential and an active role in solving the problems of the future, and also to demonstrate dialogue and skills to set a direction, will for the necessary reforms in the European Union and solutions to this. Together with insisting on the agenda of the European institutions to enter the important topics for our country... our Schengen membership and the process of joining the Eurozone, the topic of the place of the Western Balkan countries in the European Union. Although in the process of defining our priorities for the Presidency, the voice of the DPS was not heard, it was not highlighted as an emphasis on transforming the Balkans into an area free of radicalisms and ethnonationalisms, as an important condition for the processes of accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union, we will continue to work actively in this direction as a liberal party, a member of the European Liberal Family. Bulgaria can present the Bulgarian ethnic model as a model for peaceful development, sustainable democracy and prosperity. The Bulgarian ethnic model, whose ideologist and creator is our Honorary Chairman Dr. Ahmed Dogan, is the model that not only created the conditions but also successfully realized the peaceful transition from totalitarianism to democracy. In the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we believe that the stability of the Balkans is directly dependent on the speed of the processes of accession of the countries of the Western Balkans, as well as the continuation and strengthening of the European Union dialogue. We do not imagine that a lasting stabilisation of the Balkan region can be achieved without the inclusion of the Republic of Turkey the largest and strongest economic and military country in the region, in the pan-European processes, however difficult it may seem at this time. Here is the place to say that our party will actively participate in all the formats in which events will take place during the Bulgarian Presidency. Moreover, within the framework of the European liberal family, we will continue to pursue a proactive policy throughout the Presidency, with the culmination being the European Liberal Summit in Sofia in May. At this meeting of the leaders of the second number of prime ministers, the European political family will re-employ the important issues for Bulgaria - our Schengen and Eurozone membership, the acceleration of accession processes for the Western Balkan countries, the connectivity of the Balkans, including infrastructure and energy. At the end of last year, we heard the government clearly say how they imagine the six months of the Bulgarian European Presidency. Generally speaking, this idea looks like this: let's shake hands and not talk about the problems of governance in the next six months, so we don't embarrass ourselves in front of our European partners. We understand the government's desire to provide him with internal political comfort from the opposition in order to concentrate on the European Presidency's role, not to debate the problems of the country's governance, not to expose the handicaps and deficits of this government, not to introduce votes of disbelief. This comfort we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms cannot provide because we are convinced that both our voters and all Bulgarian citizens want the opposite. The rulers are wrong to interpret our institutional support for the stability of the state as ensuring the comfort of management with nationalists. No one will forgive us if we do not put the important problems for every Bulgarian citizen: the lack of serious reforms that will improve the work of all public health, education, security; corruption that worsens the business environment and administrative services; poor efficiency and efficiency in spending public funds until we deal with poverty and achieve an increase in income. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not stop warning that the involvement of nationalists in power formalizes the language of hatred that divides the nation along the most dangerous axis of ethno-religious, and to reassure the rulers who believe that political debates expose us to our European partners. European politicians do not look with good eyes at sweeping the problems under the carpet and appreciate the dignity of criticism. These two lines will form the political behaviour of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of our representatives in the Bulgarian and European Parliament during the new political season. In the foreign policy plan we will continue to actively participate in the pan-European process in the context of the Bulgarian Presidency, in the domestic political life we will be opposed to the government and we will seek not only correction of its policies, but also its reformation. And in order for there to be no speculation, I would like to make it clear: a reformation of governance does not necessarily mean the entry of the movement of rights and freedoms to governance. Our vision for the country's development is that Bulgaria needs a programme for accelerated development, including deep reforms of the most important public systems, and that, as we see, no longer gets a third political mandate, neither from expert nor from ordinary coalition offices, which, by the way, are made up of complete incoherence or incompatibility of the programs of the parties involved in arithmetic majorities. The creation of such a programme and the search for a majority to implement it is the right way. The Bulgarian electorate is not prepared to give power to a political entity, evident from the last ten years and from the polls. The DPS will not participate in the process of sitting down and wants to give the country a prospectus for accelerated development. We are against governance with nationalists not only because they have formalized the language of hatred and aggression. They erosion the institutions and question the security and stability of the state. We continue to believe that this government is not good for the country, and we will continue with the conviction that not something like political and management should appear, but a majority that will formulate and implement the reforms that our country needs. In this process, we must also include a civil society composed of free and active citizens to participate in the formation of management decisions and in their realization. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, our call to all political parties is to lead the political debate and to seek political solutions to communicate in a normal, European political language and to work for a dignified performance of the country's high responsibility task in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, for implementing reforms in the country and in the Union, for more Europe, and for better Europe, for prosperity and prosperity! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Statement by Mr. Mareshki of the parliamentary group of Volja. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I'm going to do a short procedure. It is true that this high tribune is used from time to time to speak, to the mildest of words, absurdities, but this does not give any member of the people the right to violate the Rules of Procedure or to show disrespect, such as doodles, interrupts or tosses from the place. Therefore, I will ask you to keep an eye on the order in this Chamber and try not to allow such negative phenomena.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u40	Get to the point. First, to wish the whole Bulgarian people life and health, prosperity, better politicians to look after their hopes for a high standard of living. Two things are visible, as they say from miles away. One is the audacity that we have noticed in that people who should be a little more humble, give a little reverse, who were involved in the rule of Bulgaria when it was looted, who are guilty of poverty and the uncertainty that they say is continuing at the moment. This insolence impresses us and our recommendation is: let's be a little more humble, let's be a little more self-critical. The second thing that stands out from miles away is the prosperity and prosperity that gushs out of this room. I'm not saying it's bad. God willing, it better be! We wish to you in this sense two things - purely professional - make sure that this prosperity and prosperity, which smells from this House, reaches more and more Bulgarian citizens! Work for this, devote a little more of your powers, knowledge and energy to that more Bulgarian people in each city than the big ones, through the small to the last village to look so successful, so happy and so smiling. Personally, naturally, like any Bulgarian citizen I wish you to be alive and well! We from the political party Volya.. the real, genuine Bulgarian Democrats, Bulgarian patriots [[Elevator bell dings]] we will work only for one thing, we will work to raise the standard of living of Bulgarian citizens in all its components: first of all, incomes, security, decent health care, education, opportunity to increase the intellectual qualities of the person, the ability to sport. We hope that in this noble, godly and popular work we will be followed by a maximum number of MPs from all political parties. Long live Bulgaria! Prosperity and prosperity of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE FEED LAW. Who's gonna give us the report? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I move on to the presentation of the Commission report, I ask for access to Dr. Damian Iliev's Chamber of Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u43	Honourable Members, we are voting for admission to this House. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u44	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed, No 702-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 6 December 2017, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the committee was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Asya Stoyanova Director of the Department of Legal and Animal Welfare, and Diana Fileva Chief Legal Consult in the same Directorate; by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Georgi Chobanov Director of the Directorate of Animal Welfare and Feed Control, Penka Maneva Head of the Department of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The bill and its motives were presented by Penka Maneva, who noted that the Bill will ensure the implementation of EU legal acts in the feed sector in national law. The following main changes are proposed: The period during which the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should provide the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency with information on registered farmers should be amended. For sites where detoxification of feed is carried out in relation to undesirable substances, approval of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will be required. A declaration of the method used for detoxification and a scientific assessment of the method by the European Food Safety Authority will be attached to the application for approval. The feeding of ruminants with processed animal proteins and animal by-products shall be prohibited. Applications for authorisation to place genetically modified feed on the market or genetically modified organisms as feed may be submitted only to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and to a national competent authority of another Member State. A legal framework shall be established for trade in feed offered by means of distance communication. Primaryly produced feed materials will be accompanied by a declaration of origin and compliance when placing on the market, and operators must have a contract with the person responsible for the establishment. Mandatory training on the hygiene and safety of feed for personnel employed by feed business operators shall be introduced. Training should be at least once every three years. The procedure by which the control authorities order the disposal of feed in case of suspicion of its safety shall be precise. In the event of non-compliance with maximum residue levels for pesticides in feed, checks are provided for in order to identify the sources of the substances. The inspectors and official veterinarians of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will be able to issue acts of ban in the exercise of their powers. It is envisaged that the result of control experts of feed samples taken should be final and not be contested. A procedure for the submission of an application for the issue of a certificate for the export of feed to third countries has been signed. Some of the required documents available for verification by electronic or official means shall be dropped. The relevant administrative criminal provisions have been introduced. The Law provides for municipal councils to determine by regulations the location of commercial buildings for animals, the volume of livestock activity in regulated land estates and the mayor's powers to implement forced administrative measures. The procedures governing the cases in which a return of animals has been imposed by an official veterinarian shall be revised. Official veterinarians at border inspection posts will be able to impose fines with a ticket in cases laid down by law. Studies which do not have the necessary laboratory capacity shall be given to be carried out in an official laboratory for the control of veterinary medicinal products in the territory of the European Union. In the Law on Control of Drugs and Predators, the special licensing regime for imports of hemp and hemp seeds is abolished. The amendments to the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union are related to the introduction of two new regulations. In the subsequent discussion of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the possibility of trading in feed at a distance will create a problem with control over their composition, way of offering and compliance with the requirements of the applicable legislation. They have expressed concern that the possibility of laboratory samples of veterinary medicinal products being tested in official laboratories of other Member States will finally stop building their own laboratory capacity. They stated that the obligation for municipal councils to develop regulations on the location of animal business buildings, on the volume of livestock activity in regulated land properties and the powers to implement forced administrative measures will deprive the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency of the possibility to exercise control. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" have noted that municipalities lack the necessary capacity to develop such regulations and this proposal should be refined between the first and second reading of the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Feed Act, No 702-01-51, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2017.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to begin by saying that this is another draft of the Council of Ministers, which suffers from two serious shortcomings. The first drawback is that, with the change of basic law, in this case, the Law on Feed, other important laws are changing. This bill proposes a change in the Veterinary Activity Act, as well as the Law on Drugs and Precursors. And it's not small changes. These changes are significant without the relevant discussion. And the second weakness from which this bill suffers is that, along with European directives that must be and we accept that we need to reflect in our legislation, changes are being made which cannot in any case be assigned to this group and therefore create a problem and concern at least because of the fact that they are not discussed in a way in which to be consensual and are quite controversial. A change in the Law on Feed is proposed, I exclude what is related to the application of a directive, and I would like to draw attention to some of the aspects that are important and which create a problem for us if they are adopted and applied accordingly in the legislation. It's official control. In any other law, business is not loaded with it. In the Veterinary Activity Act, in the Food Act, the official control body is the one certifying by certificate whether the relevant raw materials used in primary production agricultural products, whether the processors of feed are the ones to establish them. In this case, the operators of primary feed production are proposed to pay respectively the certificates and control sheets related to those producing the raw material, in this particular case "mycotoxins in feed', which is based on what exists in the production of the relevant cereals. We do not agree that this will have to be a policy, especially with regard to feed production. Second, footage training. There is absolutely no European requirement every three years for training personnel working in primary feed production. What I have done is to look at the Regulation on which this requirement is based " Regulation 183 of 2005. There is no such requirement. That is, the requirement goes far beyond what is necessary in European law and what we must answer as a requirement for a change in legislation. Why should there be training of personnel, provided that there is absolutely no change in a feed business related to equipment or additional requirements for feed? What does business have to bear this expense? Apart from that, you know that in the country there is quite a serious turnover of personnel, which also leads to additional work.. for requalification of those who are employed. This requirement we accept. The bill offers a new section.. Internet feed trade. During the discussions in the Commission, I asked the question: how is the way of controlling trade through the Internet of feed quality? It was explained to me that there is a regulation that says that labelling is a sufficient reason to verify. Yeah, but not because not all feeds are packed to have labels. From now on, the question is: how will control this trade and what end-users, in this case, use? It seems to me that if we do not have a solution to how this control will be carried out, we better not implement it into the legislation. Changes to the Animal Treatment Act are also proposed. It worries us that there are also quite serious changes here that do not rest on any European directive. It is a duty of BABBH (Bulgarian Food Safety Agency) to carry out controls and therefore grant licenses for the use of veterinary medicinal products. However, BABBH also needs to examine both the final product and intermediate products for the purpose of compliance between the file and what is proposed by the importers concerned. It is proposed that the Agency should not carry out this official control but be able to delegate it to other laboratories. I would like to ask the question: Who should we trust, provided that, when the budget is adopted in the Agricultural Commission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, it is imperative that one of the main tasks the Ministry takes on next year is to increase the laboratory capacity of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, because delegation is not always the best way to have a documentary solution or control of one issue or another? Therefore, it seems to me that we do not need to record such a practice in the legislation to look for opportunities for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to strengthen its capacity and to be leading with regard to official controls. The other unacceptable proposal I would like to read to you is: The municipal councils to determine by order the location of commercial buildings for animals and the volume of livestock activity in regulated land estates, as well as the powers of the mayor of the municipality for enforcement of forced administrative measures. I don't know if any of you know what problems are being created between farm owners and the rest of the population that must suffer the problems that create a livestock farm. Now this is transferred to the municipalities. Provided that it is possible to determine these distances by a decree of the Council of Ministers and accordingly to take responsibility for their compliance, the mayors and municipal councillors will be the ones to decide. I don't know how they're gonna decide, but it's an almost unattainable task. Moreover, establishments can now be established under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and in unregulated areas, provided that they are buildings for the development of livestock farming. Why should we create such a serious case before the mayors of municipalities and how they will solve it, I have no idea, given the many letters that I have received mostly from victims who cannot solve their problem with the proximity to the livestock farm concerned and the number of animals that are grown there. For this reason, we will not support the Bill. It seems to me that it is necessary to pay very serious attention to exactly what is offered as a mix of laws unrelated to one another. I have a feeling that everyone has been adding something at some point to a mouse, which has absolutely no logic as to what we're chasing, a reduction in administrative capacity or something third or fourth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u47	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote. We have a first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Feed submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2017. Please, voting mode. Voted 118 MPs: 89, against 12, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. We move to the second item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MATERIAL AND THE MATERIAL. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 26 October 2017 in the first vote. Welcome to the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Happy New Year! Health and luck! Before we begin, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow Bistra Pavlovska
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u49	Please vote on admission to Mrs. Pavlovska's room. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mrs. Pavlovska into the hall. Continue, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u50	In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Sewerage, No 702-01-22, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017, adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2017. Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on sowing and production material. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u51	Is there a debate? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u52	A proposal came from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 10 the words "acquired under art. 7, para. 1 laboratories shall be replaced by the offices authorised under art. 7, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u53	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 as it was read. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u54	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, t. 3 the words "acquired under art. 8 laboratories shall be replaced by the offices authorised under art. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u55	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the proposed new § 2 in the version of the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. REPORTER IRENA DIMOVA: Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the word "apprehension" a statement shall be added to the template and a sentence second shall be created: "The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and under the terms of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Where discrepancies or incompletes are identified in the information submitted in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days. 3. Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: The Executive Agency shall keep on its website a public national electronic register of the authorisations granted under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 1, which becomes § 3. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u57	Under § 2, a proposal was received by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. In para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 2. In para. 2 the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u58	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal in the version of the Commission for § 2 which becomes § 4. They voted 114 MPs: 112, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u59	There are no proposals under § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u60	Are there any speeches? There are no requests. We vote § 3, which becomes § 5. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u61	According to § 4 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words 2. The creation of para. 2: For the purpose of obtaining authorisation under art. 7, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 8 an application shall be submitted by model to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 4, which becomes § 6. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u63	Under § 5, a proposal was received by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 Within 7 days of carrying out the verification and determination of the results of the laboratory tests, the BABBH shall send a proposal to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forests to issue a permit for the work of the laboratories under art. 7, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 8. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue a permit to operate the laboratory within 7 days of receipt of the proposal. (4) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall maintain on its website a public national electronic register of laboratories authorised to work under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 5, which becomes § 7. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u65	Paragraph 6 has not been amended. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u66	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 8. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u67	A proposal has been put in place under the order of the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 the words "B' and "B' and "B' are replaced by "B' and "B' are replaced by "B'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u68	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting on the new § 9.. a proposal from the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u69	A proposal came from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... Article 15 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u70	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the proposal for § 10. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u71	A proposal came from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... Article 23 is amended as follows: Art. 23. The Executive Agency by Sorting, Acrobation and Seme Control shall recognise results from a variety testing for differentiation, homogeneousness and stability carried out in another Member State of the European Union where the requirements of Commission Directive 2003/90/EC of 6 October 2003 laying down measures for the implementation of Article 7 of Council Directive 2002/53/EC as regards the minimum required characteristics to be covered by the examination and the minimum conditions for examining certain varieties of agricultural plant species
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u72	Are there any speeches on the proposed new § 11? There are no speeches. We proceed to the vote on § 11. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u73	There are no proposals under § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u74	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! There are no speeches. We proceed to the vote on the text on § 7, which becomes § 12. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u75	Under § 8 a proposal has been made by the Member of the National Assembly. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 3, p. 1 the word "the authorisation" is replaced by "the copy of the contract."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u76	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the version of the Commission for § 8, which becomes § 13. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u77	A proposal came from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Allinei 2, 3 and 4 are canceled. 2. In para. 5 the words "the certificate and "the certificate' are replaced by "the certificate' and "the certificate' are replaced by "the certificate'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u78	Are there any speeches? There are no requests. We proceed to the vote on the text proposed by the Commission for a new § 14. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u79	A proposal came from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words "approved under art. 7, para. 1 laboratory (s) shall be replaced by the office authorised under art. 7, para. 1 " and the words "approved under art. 8 a laboratory (s) shall be replaced by the office (s) authorised under art. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union: 2. Allinei 5 and 6 are canceled. 3. In para. 7 words................................................................................. 2 - 6' are replaced by "al'. 2, 3 and 4
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the new § 15. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u81	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 35 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u82	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing that § 16 and § 17 by importer be dealt with after the end of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u84	Is there a reverse offer? Do you think he's gonna expose anyone? Is there a reverse offer, I ask again? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it is normal to state the reasons for this proposal that paragraphs 16 and 17 be dropped at this stage and discussed later. I believe that normal respect and normal parliamentary practice is to have motives and, of course, if we agree, we will support those motives. But this is not how a Member of the National Assembly can come out and say: paragraphs 16 and 17 are postponed. Perhaps someone will come out of the Commission, there is nothing wrong with that, but explain to the MPs what is the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u86	That was Mr. Stoinev's counteroffer. Is there going to be an argument? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, and then we will continue with speeches if there are any.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since I am not a member of the portfolio committee that has discussed the bill at second reading as a leader, I cannot give a detailed argument for the reasons. I understand from colleagues that, since there are a number of speeches and multiple debates expected on these two paragraphs, it is therefore preferred to be discussed in final terms. I suppose there is also a link which presupposes the adoption or non-acceptance of the following paragraphs in view of the positions referred to in paragraphs 16 and 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The proposal is to create new paragraphs. [[Heckling]] By importer? The proposal was to withdraw the examination and voting of paragraphs 16 and 17 by importer. We are voting on the proposal that the two paragraphs 16 and 17 be voted on at the end of the bill. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting to postpone the examination of two paragraphs, honourable Members. Is there a problem with the vote, Mr. Lazarov? You've been able to vote! Vote 120 MPs: 88, against 27, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u89	The new Paragraph 16 has not been voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u90	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to adopt a new § 16. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 78, against 17, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u91	There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 42, para.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u92	The proposal was to postpone the vote by importer. We are voting on new paragraphs. Please read the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u93	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 42, para.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u94	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. We are voting a new § 17 with the just read text. Vote 116 MPs: for 80, against 31, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u95	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. the first sentence of the first sentence is replaced by the following: 2. Alinea 8 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u96	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of § 18. Vote 113 MPs: 94 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u97	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1, t. 3 words "approved under art. 8 laboratories and laboratories shall be replaced by those authorised under art. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the wording of § 19. Voted 103 MPs: 99 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u99	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. the first sentence of the first sentence is replaced by the following: 2. Alinea 8 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote on § 20. Vote 108 MPs: 104 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 the words "supplier," pre-supplier and "supplier" are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u102	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? There's no desire for them. We're going to vote on § 21. They voted 101 MPs: for 80, against 21, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote on § 22. They voted 102 MPs: 83 against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u106	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 23. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I am giving a 30-minute break, and then we will continue with "Transitional and final provisions." (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u107	Colleagues, we're moving on. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u108	Thank you, Madam President. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u109	Statements? Continue with the next § 12. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House, the time for rest is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u110	According to § 12 there is a proposal received by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal on this. Three and four. Proposal by the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1.c. 30, para. 2, p. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 2.In art. 33, para. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 3.In art. 134, p. 7 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 4.In art. 139 para. 1 is amended as follows: In the event of a change in the circumstances under art. 134 within 14 days of their arrival, the manufacturer shall submit to the Minister of Economy an application for entry of the change. The application shall be accompanied by the documents certifying the change, as well as a document for a fee paid for the examination of the application under the fees charged by the Ministry of Economy under the State Fees Act, where the payment is not made electronically. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155, para. 3 t. 12 is amended as follows: ..12. a document for a State fee paid for the examination of documents under the fee rate to be collected in the system of the Ministry of Economy under the State Fees Act, where the payment was not made electronically. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. According to § 13 there is a proposal from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 3 t. 3 is canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 3 t. 3 is canceled. 3.In art. 70, para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words agreed by the regional forestry directorate concerned is deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 2, p. 1 words agreed by the respective Regional Forest Directorate at the location of the property shall be deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1, t. 2 words agreed by the relevant regional forestry directorate at the location of the property shall be deleted. Article 6 (1) (a) 224 para. 3 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 2 a unique identifier of the applicant under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities shall be provided and a list of the members of the branch organisation shall be attached to it. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231, para. 1 Finally adds s when the payment is not carried out by electronic means. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 5 is repealed; b) c. 6 is added at the end when the payment has not been made e-mail address (s) and e-mail address (s) and 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 243, para. 1, t. 8 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u111	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Section, § 12, which shall become § 24, and § 13, which shall become § 25 in the version of the Commission in accordance with the report. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u112	Under § 14, there is a proposal received by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Protection of Plants (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words "public registers" replaced by their website public national an electronic register (s); (b) Aliines 2, 3 and 4 are repealed; (c)Alinea 5 is amended as follows: The contents and order of the register under para. 1 shall be defined in a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2, p. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 11 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 3, p. 3 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 7 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 6 words. The following points are inserted after point 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 1 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 5 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. A sentence 3 is created: "Professional users of plant protection products must have at least secondary education.' 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 3 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 4 words. This Decision shall be published in the EEA 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not carried out by electronic means. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 3 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 97, para. 1 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, para. 2 and 3 words. 4 or 5s shall be deleted. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words................................................................................. the (b) in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted: (c) in para. 3 words................................................................................. The 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words................................................................................. the (b) in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted: (c) in para. 3 words................................................................................. The 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words................................................................................. the b)Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For entry in the register under art. 6, para. 1 persons under para. 1 submit to the ODBH at a permanent address or on whose territory they are established, a notification on a model to which they apply a certified copy of a diploma for higher education in the field of agrarian sciences with a professional direction A reference shall be made to the ODBH for the certificate issued under art. The consultant's 83. (c) in para. 3 words................................................................................. The 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119, para. 1 and 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 9 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. 1 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted after point (b) in para. 2 words. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (c) in para. 6 words. The following points are inserted after point 15 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1, t. 2 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 14 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. (b) in para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 14 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136. 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u113	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 14, which shall become § 26 in the version of the Commission in accordance with the report. They voted 114 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u114	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1.In Art. 1. 8, para. The second sentence shall be created: The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 2.In art. 9, para. 21 words by document of the competent authority concerned shall be replaced by a reference to the public register concerned and, where not maintained, the information shall be required and received by the administration responsible by service. 3.In art. 23, para. 7 the word "waters" is replaced by "maintained" on its website public national electronics. 4.In art. 36a, para. 4 words with a document from the competent authority concerned shall be replaced by a reference to the relevant public register and, where not maintained, the information shall be required and received by the administration responsible by service. Article 5. 36d, para. 4. (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a copy of a court registration document or EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities; (b) point 4 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u115	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 15, which shall become § 27 in the version of the Commission in accordance with the report. They voted 109 MPs: 101, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u116	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I want a procedure, as we have actually reached § 16, which, with the previous procedural proposal, we have postponed to vote on the end of the consideration of this regulation. Therefore, I am making the opposite proposal to what I have proposed to you and it was adopted in plenary: paragraphs 16 and 17 of an importer that we have postponed, in fact, to look at them now that their turn has come. Please cancel the delay and proceed to discussion in accordance with paragraphs 16 and 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal. Voted 118 MPs: 103, against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u118	Under paragraph 16, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 8. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 9 which is reflected in its systematic place as § 29. A proposal from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...), the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 3 the words "the owner and/or investor of the site' shall be replaced by "the interested parties'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 words The owners of the agricultural land shall be replaced by the persons concerned. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "building boundaries of settlements and settlements' shall be replaced by "urbanised territories'; (b) in para. 2 the words "the building boundaries of the settlements" shall be replaced by "the borders of the urbanised territories." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a, para. 1 words the building boundaries of the inhabited The areas are replaced by the boundaries of urbanised territories or the creation of new urbanised territories. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For each site offered to be built or expanded on agricultural land, the necessary site shall be defined with a sketch of the property or a sketch project where the site is for part of the property, with defined boundaries and area defined by the geodetic coordinates of the determining points, and for the linear objects of the technical infrastructure a route with preliminary project under art. 126, para. 6, t, 1 of the Law on Structure of the Area. For the identification of sites and routes are required and entered into force decisions or opinions issued under Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. (b) in para. 5 words with a preliminary draft for a detailed design plan shall be replaced by a sketch of the property or sketch project where the site is for part of the property, with the limits and area specified by the geodetic coordinates of the determining points. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the case of a Member State, the competent authority of the Member State of destination shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes in the use of agricultural land in the territory of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination and of any change in the use of agricultural land in the territory of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination. 17a of the same Law. (b) the creation of para. 5. Until coverage of the boundaries of the sand dunes in the cadastral map and in the specialized maps and registers under art. 6, para. 7 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the validation of sites and/or routes for the design and modification of the purpose of agricultural land within the area "A" or zone "B" or in the urbanised areas of settlements after the boundaries of the zone "A" under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, shall be authorised after written opinion of the Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him, stating that the property does not fall into sand dunes. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of an effective decision to validate a final site and/or route, the person concerned may request permission to draw up a detailed development plan in accordance with the Law on the Construction of the Area. (b) in para. 2 the words "the owner of the land or the investor of the site or the person entitled to build in a foreign property' shall be replaced by the person concerned; (c) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The decision referred to in paragraph 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 shall enter into force after payment of a fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2, except in cases referred to in Article 2. 30, (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The decision to change the purpose of the agricultural land shall lose legal effect if, within three months of notification under art. 24a is not paid the fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2. (e) in para. 8 the words the State fee under art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the implementation of this Regulation. 30, para. 1 or 2 (f) the creation of para. 9. In the cases referred to in para. 7 within 14 days of the entry into force of the detailed planning plan, the authority which approved the plan shall send to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a copy thereof, accompanied by a constitutional act certifying its entry into force and a register of the affected properties. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, or an official authorised by him, shall issue a certificate to serve as an official to reflect the change in the purpose of agricultural land in the relevant registers. The refusal to issue a certificate is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A copy of the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs shall be issued to the applicant after presentation of a document certifying payment of the fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed; (c) in para. 3 words The Ministry's competent directorate the agriculture, food and forestry sectors are replaced by the corresponding Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Office. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 words after crossing the borders according to art. 25, para. Article 2 except for Art. 2 24, para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. One and two are 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 sentence first is finally added by a model approved by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: In the application under art. 1 shall be indicated according to the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, where the applicant is a legal person or a sole trader, or the number and date of issue of the identity document, where the applicant is a natural person, applying: 1. card material with reflected design situational location of the sites or routes in the property/mots with geodetic coordinates of the determining points; 2. preliminary (pre-investment) studies. (c) the creation of para. 5. The provisions of this Article shall not apply in the event of a change in the purpose of agricultural land by the State Land Fund or municipal land fund for the construction of national sites or municipal sites of paramount importance which become public state or municipal property. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words to the owner of the land or the investor of the site shall be replaced by the detailed development plan of the person concerned; (b) in para. 2 words in force shall be replaced by the detailed planning plan. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 t. 3, 4 and 6 are canceled. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 the words shall inform the owner of the land accordingly, the person entitled to build on a foreign property, or the investor shall be replaced by the person concerned; (b) paragraph 4 is repealed. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 para. 4 is amended as In the event of cancellation of the decision to change the purpose of the land, the fee paid under art. 30, para. 1 or 2 does not recover. Where the realization of the investment intention cannot be carried out due to the prohibition imposed by a regulatory or general administrative act and the decision to change the purpose of the agricultural land is revoked at the request of the person concerned, the fee paid under art. 30, para. 1 or 2 is recovered. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 4 the words of the owner of the land or of the investor of the site shall be replaced by the person concerned; (b) point 8 is repealed. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1, t. 3 words "without tracing its boundaries under art. 25, para. 2 or "supplied' are deleted. 18. In § 27 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) create para. 5, 6, 7 and 8: In the cases referred to in para. 3 The person concerned may request confirmation of the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs by submitting a reasoned proposal to the Committee on Art. 17, para. 1. The proposal shall be accompanied by: 1. a document of ownership or an established right of construction; 2. sketch of the property; 3. act for the category of land; 4. opinions or decisions issued pursuant to Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act; 5. a detailed development plan, the mayor's order or the decision of the municipal council to approve it and a constitutional act certifying its entry into force; 6. a copy of the decision under para. 3 for change of purpose. (6) The Commission under art. 17, para. 1 shall decide on the proposal within one month from the date of its entry, establishing a decision confirming the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land or to refuse. The decision shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) In the decision confirming the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land, the Commission shall set the amount of the fee under art. 30, para. 1 the rate in force at the time of the submission of the proposal, approved by the Council of Ministers or indicated to be set the amount of the fee under art. 30, para. 2. (8) The difference between the fee for change of purpose and the fee under para. 7 shall be paid by the applicant within three months of notification of the decision under para. 6 or recovers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u119	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u120	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! After discussing the circumstances with colleagues of the Agricultural Commission, which imposed the postponement of § 16, I would like to make the following statements, respectively. We cannot support the proposal of colleague Yordan Apostolov, as adopted by the Commission and was reflected in the final version that the Commission proposes. The Commission has, in principle, supported its proposal. On the proposal of colleague Apostolov, we object and we cannot support his proposals on this point. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2, p. 4 t. 5, t. 6 and so on. 7. For this reason, I am proposing an amendment so that those provisions, as I have indicated, are dropped out of the text proposed to the Commission. I can read if you give me an opportunity after a possible vote or now, the editorial proposal that we are proposing for § 16, which will become § 28, and I stress the proposal that has been adopted by the Jordan Apostolov. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2, p. 4 t. 5, t. 6 and c. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal for dropping Mr. Apostolov's proposals, reflected in the text. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2, p. 4 t. 5, t. 6 and so on. 7. Mr. Kirilov's suggestion is that these points will be dropped in the edit which Mr. Apostolov proposed. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 100 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Suggest an editorial amendment, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u122	I propose the following version of § 16, which becomes § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The Agricultural Land Conservation Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 3, the words "the owner and/or investor of the site' shall be replaced by "the interested parties'; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, the words "the owners of agricultural land' shall be replaced by "the interested parties'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "building boundaries of settlements and settlements' shall be replaced by "urbanised territories'; (b) in para. 2 the words "the building boundaries of the settlements" shall be replaced by the boundaries of the urbanised territories. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a, para. 1 the words "Boundary boundaries of settlements" shall be replaced by "Boundaries of urbanised territories" or for the creation of new urbanised territories. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For each site offered to be built or expanded on agricultural land, the necessary site shall be defined with a sketch of the property or a sketch project where the site is for part of the property, with defined boundaries and area defined by the geodetic coordinates of the determining points, and for the linear objects of the technical infrastructure a route with preliminary project under art. 126, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area. For the identification of sites and routes are required and entered into force decisions or opinions issued under Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. (b) in para. 5 words with a preliminary draft for a detailed design plan shall be replaced by a sketch of the property or sketch project where the site is for part of the property, with the limits and area specified by the geodetic coordinates of the determining points. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the case of a Member State, the competent authority of the Member State of destination shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes in the use of agricultural land in the territory of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination and of any change in the use of agricultural land in the territory of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination of the Member State of destination. 17a of the same law. (b) the creation of para. 5. Until coverage of the boundaries of the sand dunes in the cadastral map and in the specialized maps and registers under art. 6, para. 7 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the validation of sites and/or routes for the design and modification of the purpose of agricultural land within the area "A" or zone "B" or in the urbanised areas of settlements after the boundaries of the zone "A" under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, shall be authorised after written opinion of the Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him, stating that the property does not fall into sand dunes. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of an effective decision to validate a final site and/or route, the person concerned may request permission to draw up a detailed development plan in accordance with the Law on the Construction of the Area. (b) in para. 2 the words "the owner of the land or the investor of the site or the person entitled to build in a foreign property' shall be replaced by the person concerned; (c) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The decision referred to in paragraph 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 shall enter into force after payment of a fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2, except in cases referred to in Article 2. 30, (d) in para. 8 the words "State fee" under art. 30 are replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 or para. 2. (e) the creation of para. 9. In the cases referred to in para. 7 within 14 days of the entry into force of the detailed planning plan, the authority which approved the plan shall send to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a copy thereof, accompanied by a constitutional act certifying its entry into force and a register of the affected properties. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, or an official authorised by him, shall issue a certificate to serve as an official to reflect the change in the purpose of agricultural land in the relevant registers. The refusal to issue a certificate is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A copy of the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs shall be issued to the applicant after presentation of a document certifying payment of the fee under art. 30, para. 1 or 2. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed; (c) in para. 3 the words "the competent Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" shall be replaced by the corresponding Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 words after crossing the borders according to art. 25, para. Article 2 except for Art. 2 24, para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 sentence first is finally added by a model approved by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: In the application under art. 1 shall be reported according to the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities where the applicant is a legal person or a sole trader, or the number and date of issue of the identity document, where the applicant is a natural person, applying: 1. card material with reflected design situational location of the sites or routes in the property/mots with geodetic coordinates of the determining points; 2. preliminary (pre-investment) studies. (c) the creation of para. 5. The provisions of this Article shall not apply in the event of a change in the purpose of agricultural land by the State Land Fund or municipal land fund for the construction of national sites or municipal sites of paramount importance which become public state or municipal property. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words to the owner of the land or the investor of the site shall be replaced by the detailed development plan of the person concerned; (b) in para. 2 words in force shall be replaced by the detailed planning plan. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 t. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 2 the words shall inform the owner of the land accordingly, the person entitled to build on a foreign property, or the investor shall be replaced by the person concerned; 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 para. 4 is amended as In the event of cancellation of the decision to change the purpose of the land as well as in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 5, t. 2 and 3 the fee paid under art. 30, para. 1 or 2 does not recover. Where the realization of the investment intention cannot be carried out due to the prohibition imposed by a regulatory or general administrative act and the decision to change the purpose of the agricultural land is revoked at the request of the person concerned, the fee paid under art. 30, para. 1 or 2 is recovered. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 4 the words of the owner of the land or of the investor of the site shall be replaced by the person concerned; (b) point 8 is repealed. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1, t. 3 words without tracing its boundaries under art. 25, para. 2 or "supplied' are deleted. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1, t. 3 is repealed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u124	Madam President, honourable Members, have you understood what you are going to vote on? Because after something's canceled, there's an editing that's nowhere to be found. Personally, I cannot accept such heavy texts in this law as they are offered to us. If the House has considered that the proposal by my colleague Apostolov should not be accepted, this text must go through the Commission or at least be dealt with in a punctual way. How do you imagine voting on such a heavy bill the way you're offering it to us here? This is truly outrageous! Honestly, I didn't expect this!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u126	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Professor. Bachvarova! Twice, to make it clear to all colleagues, I explained the change in both ways. Since under the heading "Art. 69, para. 1, I have the right to make a motion for rejection, I have made a motion for rejection, I can again list them on the proposals adopted by the Commission in general by my colleague Apostolov. I pointed them out as they were in his proposal, as he did them, and I individualized them. I told you: that's t. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2, p. 4 t. 5, 6 and 7. I then read you the Commission text without these proposals. Reading made sense, in fact, to show that these proposals were dropped. If you had used the report you have as a Commissioner, you could simply note the relevant provisions of his proposal, which have dropped out, I can point them out. In fact, I have read you the Commission's decision without six paragraphs now: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, which was contained in the proposal of colleague Jordan Apostolov. That's the difference. I explained that before, and now I've said it again. We don't have meaningful changes, we don't even have editorial changes. Again: on the basis of art. 69, para. 1, t. 1 of our Rules of Procedure I have made a motion for rejection, which is most intense as a proposal, and therefore, in my opinion, the President has rightly put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Angelov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Piralkova, it's very nice of you to go out and criticize the texts that have dropped out. However, we cannot explain BSP's behaviour again and again, we see BSP speaking one thing, supporting one thing in the Commission, in the Chamber doing another. Mr. Kirilov's proposal to drop the texts that the United patriots had proposed, you had supported him in the Commission, and today, in the Chamber on the proposal of Mr. Kirilov from BSP voted seven people, of which two voted for. What do you do when you're 30-40 people in the gym? You're showing demagogy again! You talk one thing about people to like each other, and in the gym you do another. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u130	The first line. However, what is important and necessary is that you provide us with the text that we are going to vote on. You read it correctly, that's off, that's off, but the final text, because it's all in editorials... When you say the proposal is adopted in principle, but inside the text you are proposing, it does not show what this principle is. It is good for this text to be given to us and only then to vote on it. I think that's normal practice. Regarding the second line. In the Commission, you submit a proposal that is resonant makes sense. But what do you get? After a week, it turns out that since May, proceedings have been suspended and new procedures have been initiated. Our group abstains from the second proposal or what the Commission has proposed is the cases that have taken place from now on, you see, they remain in the hypothesis that there continues to be a change of purpose, and those who, within six months, have started and started the new procedure -- no matter what happens, we are not interested. I don't think that's fair. If there was prior information and you were prepared to say:..they have started procedures and these procedures continue for a large part of the people by changing their purpose with new proposals....we probably wouldn't support it. Three times the Commission has dealt with this issue and it appears that there is a problem and this problem needs to be solved legally.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u131	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u132	Madam President, honourable Members, I see once again a demagogy being proposed here before us, the MPs, for a vote. If anyone found out, after reading by Mr. Kirilov, what will we vote on, even though he claims that this is read, I would like to come out here, on the stand, and say if he has understood which texts remain, which texts drop out, and ultimately what is the final version that we will vote on. Or else it turns out that here we are only some people who come to push buttons without knowing the absolute meaning of what is being voted on, and the depths in which Mr. Kirilov introduces us means that to him they are just terms and concepts, not human destinies and people who have put money into this change. We know very well that this is only about 1,800 properties with over 9 million. lv. State fees paid. About what you said, Professor. Bachvarova. Even if there are procedures in place for this time from May till now, I can tell you that these procedures count on the fingers of my hand and even though they have started, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests could say: So once again, I call on the MPs to think well whether they are people or people who understand what is voted in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Replies to Mr. Apostolov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the version which Mr Kirilov made of § 16, which becomes § 28, and the text on the Commission Report. They voted 130 MPs: 121, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova. Paragraph 29 must be adjusted accordingly, after being adopted § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u134	The Commission proposes to set up § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 38, para. The fourth sentence of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land also applies to decisions entering into force to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs which, at the date of entry into force of this law, have not lost legal effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u135	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the newly born § 29 Mrs. Dimova just reported. I'm calling off the vote, folks. There's an editorial amendment to § 29... [[Noise and lines in "United Patriarchs."]] It can be cancelled because I have not announced the end of the vote. Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u136	There's been an editorial change in § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 38, para. The fourth sentence of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land also applies to decisions entering into force to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs which, at the date of entry into force of this law, have not lost legal effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u137	Please vote on the newly born § 29 as read by Mrs Dimova with the relevant editorial amendment. They voted 125 MPs: 110, against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u138	I suggest that paragraphs 30 and 31 be dropped. I'll read them: 30. Where, at the date of entry into force of this Act, the decision to change the purpose of agricultural land is not revoked under art. 35 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land with an administrative act entered into force or an act of the Court of Justice, it shall retain its effect. § 31. The time limits referred to in art. 34, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land shall also apply to the welded proceedings for which the one-year period of entry of the detailed development plan for the property concerned has not expired on the day of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u139	I put to the vote paragraphs 30 and 31. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Abort the vote and announce the result. We voted to repeal paragraphs 30 and 31. They voted 124 MPs: 15 against 70, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We continue with § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u140	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 30: 30. In the Law on Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 the words "EIC/BULSTAT registration copy' or "BULSTAT registration copy' are replaced by "For foreign persons' and the word "other' is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u141	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote § 17, which shall become § 32 in the version of the Commission, according to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u142	Paragraph 17 becomes § 30. Two paragraphs have been dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u143	From now on, we'll report a new numbering without reporting it. I'll ask my colleagues to renumber after that. Paragraph 17, which becomes § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u144	Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 117 MPs: 100, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u145	A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u146	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're going to vote on § 18. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u147	Mr President, honourable Members, since the stenography protocol and colleagues have reflected our vote on paragraphs 30 and 31, a proposal from the Commission to create new paragraphs which we voted against, but the transcription reflects that we voted for the rejection, I ask for a re-vote in the following sense. Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal to create these paragraphs - 30 and 31 - and I specify that these paragraphs should be dropped in view of the corrections that we adopted in the previous § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u148	So you propose that paragraphs 30 and 31 be created and then rejected by a vote? Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u149	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u150	What do you suggest, then?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u151	Mr. President, I would like a re-vote. This is a proposal from the Commission. Look at the report. The Commission is of the opinion that the aid measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Paragraph 29, we voted on it with an editorial proposal, but paragraphs 30 and 31, we did not support them in this House. They were supported by only 15 votes. However, for the record and for fellow Members who take note of the results of the vote, there remains the belief that this vote on the rejection of the paragraphs and that, in fact, we have refused has not been accepted by the motion for rejection. I make it clear that these paragraphs must be unsupported and rejected. I mean, they're gone. Since we have to vote positively and the Commission has proposed to have them and writes: "We are proposing § 30 and § 31 "; I want the actual will to be made clear in the revoting. Anyone who wants to have these paragraphs, vote for..................................................................................................... Who do not want to have these paragraphs, we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u152	Thank you. There couldn't have been a more detailed explanation than that. For the procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, as a matter of fact, I've already forgotten it. Dear colleagues, this is indeed a serious law. There will be confusion in the vote itself with these editorials. That is why I am making a procedural proposal: let us postpone this Law for tomorrow after point one to become point two, meanwhile to clear the texts and hold a normal vote, a normal debate on this bill. We still need to know what we're voting on here. The colleague Kirilov is trying to clarify, but the matter is not so simple that we can understand all these explanations and all these editorials that are being made. I'm making a procedural proposal to postpone the viewing of this Bill for tomorrow's next point after the veto, point one, I think it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You're proposing to postpone the bill for tomorrow. Is there a reverse offer? I don't see a counterproposal. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's motion to postpone the bill for tomorrow's plenary day. Vote 137 MPs: 66, against 66, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Julian Angelov wants the floor for a revoting procedure.]] Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u155	Mr. Chairman, I'm proposing a re-voting procedure because some of my colleagues couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u156	Procedure for re-voting Mr. Popov's proposal. Vote 155 MPs: 79, against 69, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] The motion was to postpone the bill for tomorrow's plenary day. Then we move on to the next item on today's agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR STATE TASKS. For a report from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, please come in. The bill was proposed by Mikhail Hristov and Krum Zarkov. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u157	{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Fees, No 754-01-81, submitted by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 22 November 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 13 December 2017, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Fee Act No 754-01-81. The bill was presented by Mikhail Hristov. He pointed out that the main aim of the proposed changes is to facilitate the social integration of people with disabilities and the deletion of the definition of the Bulgarian legislation will contribute to the overcoming of stereotypical thinking about people with disabilities as people who are incompetent, unvalid and unhealthy. Mr. Hristov emphasized that nine law amendments are envisaged and with the adoption of this Bill society would take a positive step towards the social inclusion of people with disabilities and their realization as full citizens, and in the event of a demographic crisis any measure for inclusion of all people in Bulgaria should be supported and encouraged. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received a positive opinion from the Agency for Disabilities on the presented bill with the following remarks. Everywhere in the text of the Law, the words "disabled person" and "disabled person" should be replaced by a person with disability and the "disabled person" with motives that a legal definition of the term "disabled person" has been introduced in the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities and that change will specify and align the legislation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with an opinion supports the proposed Draft with the following remarks: - the Law for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities defines damage and damage to a person with permanent disability, according to which damage is any loss or violation in the anatomical structure, in the physiology or in the psyche of an individual; - in the Law on Higher Education. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. The following amendments shall be made: the words "blind, deaf, invalids" shall be replaced by the words "seriously disabled people" and others. In the use of the disabled person's expression, adults with different types of disabilities are involved, while the expression "disabled persons' includes people with disabilities who have permanently reduced opportunities to perform activities in a manner and degree possible for a healthy person; - in the Rail Transport Act. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 the word "disabled" to be replaced by the "disabled person" because the right to free transport or reduction has both disabled children and elderly people with disabilities. In case the word "disabled" is used, children with disabilities will be excluded from the scope of the Law. After the changes no additional costs are foreseen, no administrative burden is introduced and no structural amendments are introduced. At the end of the discussion and voting with results: 14 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Fees, No 754-01-81, submitted by Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov and Krum Kostadinov Zarkov on 22 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I'm asking for motives from an importer. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this bill we propose to delete once and for all the word "invalid" from the Bulgarian legislation. That word carries a negative charge. If we look at her etymology, we find the following synonyms: invalid, deprived of legal power, invalid, sick. People with disabilities are not such and should not be described in this way in the regulations or in our official documents. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria deals with the term "disabled" and that is why we have proposed it as a replacement. However, we have followed closely the debate in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and it is worth thinking about. However, it is important that the word "disabled" disappears. In most developed countries, by the way, it hasn't been used for a long time. Of course, we are not naive and we know that the many problems and difficulties faced by Bulgarian citizens with disabilities will not be solved by this Law, but we believe that this is a step in the right direction. Social and professional integration of disabled people requires a lot of effort from both parliament and government and society as a whole, but speech, words also matter. They shape perceptions that, in turn, later inspire certain behaviors and it is clear that when the law defines someone as invalid, it does not help them, but is often an obstacle to their effective labour and social integration. This integration is very important not only for people with disabilities, but for themselves or their loved ones. It should involve our entire society and us as MPs especially in the acute demographic crisis and the severe shortage of people in Bulgaria. We are not, we have no right to deprive ourselves of the potential of any Bulgarian citizen, and that is how we should start as legislators to look at people with disabilities as Bulgarian citizens with potential and not as disabled. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Are there any speeches? Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Although I am the importer of this bill along with my colleague Krum Zarkov, I cannot be hypocritical and I cannot say that with this bill we will change something radical and essentially. Since the law is above all of us, in this statement I will use only the word "invalid" because it is present in nine Bulgarian laws and according to the law I have to use that word. I'll tell you the truth. Although I have integrated and socialized among you, even though it sounds paradoxically here "Vas" and "We" and "You" and "You" have not done what I have done in Bulgaria. They will continue to sit in their houses, 80% of them will continue to be unintegrated, unrealized, uncommunicative, and will remain simply disabled. Our main goal in this Parliament is to try one way or another to change the thinking of society, and this thinking must go right here, from this Parliament. As long as this word continues to exist in the Law, and its etymology to be an illegal one, society cannot change, nor if we call a Bulgarian citizen a socially weak citizen, it is not socially weak, it remains poor. Even if we call disabled people disabled, it won't integrate them. The important thing, fellow Members, is to take the first step towards the real integration and real inclusion of these people of the disabled in Bulgarian society. So I call on you unanimously to adopt this bill, to make a gesture to all people with disabilities, and to show that we can be united because, as you know, the Union makes the force. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stoinev finds it extremely funny when we look at such a serious issue. I'm surprised at his behavior, but it stays with him. It's funny to the guy that we're thinking about it. I was invited by the chairman to take the floor, and that's why I'm here. [[Heckling]] I would like to express my own opinion that what we are doing right now is indeed a fair case, but, on the other hand, I believe that we are replacing the Throne with the........................................................................ I think we need to think a little more seriously about European practices. All I can say is that in Germany it is not called "injured" or "sakat" or "incompetent," but it is called "man in need." I think someone should be told that they are crippled or damaged, in Bulgarian translated, is not a better solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Hristov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, we need to clarify one thing. We are the only European country in which the word is used. Second, in America, the word "invalid" is equal to the word "nigger." About the disadvantage and the damage. First, when one person, including myself, has a disability, I have amputations of two upper limbs and I am not disadvantaged, I am absolutely equal to both you and all the other colleagues in this room. So it's much better to tell the truth. The truth is that people with disabilities are both auditory, visual and motor, because the Constitution says that everyone is equal in dignity and rights. So I cannot fully agree with what you have said. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Petrov, do you have the back? No. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the political party GERB parliamentary group support this bill. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We also said that at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. There is a resonant in what colleagues Krum Zarkov and Mikhail Hristov offer, because since 2004 in Bulgaria there is a Law for the integration of people with disabilities, not a Law for invalids. It is therefore appropriate to align the Bulgarian legislation. Along with these changes proposed by colleagues Hristov and Zarkov, it should be reviewed between first and second readings, except in the Law on Higher Education and in the Railway Transport Act, the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, and I think that in some other laws should be changed this term and replaced by the disabled person. We support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u168	- What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on State Fees, No 754-01-81, submitted by Mikhail Ivanov Hristov and Krum Kostadinov Zarkov on 22 November 2017 at first reading. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Bill at first reading. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u169	Colleagues, I will ask, first of all, for admission to Mrs. Petya Alexandrova's Chamber of Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u170	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 108 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Alexandrova to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u171	On 15 November 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 754-01-29, submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017, adopted at the first vote on 15 November 2017. The Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u172	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the name of the Law. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u173	It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The Commission shall support the importer's text for a single paragraph which shall become § 1. There is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Danchev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Transport provision with § 2: "Transitional provision' § 2. The procedures under art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency shall be completed in the new order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u174	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, in fact the main discussions have already passed, just a few words from me as one of the importers. With the support of this text, we will close the possibility of abuse and circumventing the will of the legislator, as so far the text has been insufficiently clear and it has been possible to interpret it in different ways, and this has been done by the previous management of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. It is very important that the vote on this text will prevent companies that are on the privatization ban list from now on from being emptied out of content, being sold out without a decision of the National Assembly, and in practice remaining only one packaging until the most appetizing parts go according to their intended purpose, as they say. An important clarification in the Law, which I support, the proposal made by Mr. Danchev all the procedures that have been initiated at the moment to be finalised in the new order, which I hope today with our vote we will determine. The bill was put on the agenda of the National Assembly unanimously, paradoxically, I would say, even. Then it was adopted unanimously. The discussions were constructive in the Commission. I am counting on the National Assembly today to unanimously support this decision. This will show the maturity of the National Assembly and its desire really above all to protect the interest of the state and the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kanev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u177	Colleagues, in the form of a reply, I would like to thank the members of our Commission. There are not many laws on which we find at first and second reading a full consensus. I would like to thank all my fellow Members in this House, as at first reading it has passed and unanimously in this House. This is something that should have happened a few months ago. There's no drama. Once again, however, I would like to share that we are expecting other proposals from the Ministry of Economy related to privatisation. You know, there were ideas from the Council of Ministers about a moratorium on privatisation, other ideas about the sale of shares, stocks. Until now, we've received no such signals. Once again, thank you for supporting our proposal. Good luck and happy New Year to all your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on a single paragraph and also on a transit provision with § 2. 130 MPs voted: 129, no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ASSISTANCE AND THE STANDING OF THE GENERAL. There is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government. Please come in and submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u179	Dear Mr. Presidents, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 754-01-67, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 13 December 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 754-01-67, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Representatives of Sofia Municipality, professional organizations of architects and engineers in investment design, builders, as well as a number of civil organisations and movements took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Alexander Nenkov. He stressed that the project aims to solve the problems arising in the implementation of the law in the past 10 years, as well as to reflect the public attitudes related to the face of the capital. The draft is aimed at resolving several key issues related to the introduction of regulations on high buildings and areas without maximum values for ground cornice of buildings, landscaping, traffic and parking, urban environment and residential complexes. The bill is also aimed at reducing the administrative burden and removing existing restrictions, as well as updating texts in relation to the current regulations. New regulations are also envisaged. The transitional and final provisions propose an amendment to the Law on the territorial division of Sofia Municipality and the major cities in order to specify the boundaries between the region of Vitosha The changes in borders are agreed with the mayors of regions and are dictated by the traditional service of the citizens on the ground and the services they use provided by the administration by districts. Prior to the examination of the Bill, the Commission received a significant number of opinions and proposals from both the professional organizations established by the Law "The Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria, the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, as well as a number of branch and civil society organizations and movements. In order to respond to the demands of professional and civil society organisations and movements, the Commission organised and held a public discussion on the bill to which the opinions of all interested parties were presented. The vast majority of them drew attention to the fact that the amendments proposed by the Law to the general planning plan of Sofia Municipality, thus violating the rules and procedures for amending and supplementing the plan laid down in the Law on Construction in the Area, and deprived citizens and organizations of participation in mandatory discussions, which should be conducted in all 24 districts of Sofia Municipality. In addition, in the opinions of the prevailing part of professional and branch organizations, along with support for the need for some of the proposed changes, serious consideration was given to a number of discrepancies in separate provisions with basic principles and rules, described in the Law on Construction in the Area, as well as to the appropriateness that certain proposals should be referred to the Law on Construction in the Area in view of their applicability and to the other municipalities in the country. During the discussion during the discussion in the Commission, along with the need to adopt some of the proposed amendments, some of the comments expressed in the opinions during the public discussion should be taken into account in further discussion of the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes..................................... and 6 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Will the importer's motives be presented? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Law on Construction and Construction of Sofia is undoubtedly a specific law that concerns the whole development of the city. In the last 10 years, there have been no changes to this law, which prejudges the reasons for writing the Bill, as in the last 10 years the situation around the development of the city has changed radically. It is undeniable that in 10 years Sofia has become a serious economic centre, which is equivalent to economic development, for the development of the city, its growth. This, of course, leads to a serious investor's interest in the construction of new buildings, whether residential or business buildings, so that they can respond to market demand. However, the problem that has arisen in recent years is precisely the demand for balance, on the one hand, of the investor interest, which is increasingly strengthened and, on the other hand, to some extent the desire of the other part of the citizens who believe that the city is re-built. Especially when it comes to high construction, there is always serious tension and opposition between investors and citizens. So one of the first and perhaps the most important motive for writing this bill is the search for this balance. The main problem that has always stood, as the southern part of the city is of serious interest by investors, we have introduced a restriction in the areas where there is no such, to have an end to the cota cornice of all these buildings that we consider high, precisely in order to preserve the city's image and rather the vision of Mount Vitosha. Therefore, throughout the city, especially in the part of the ring road up and from the ring road to the central city, there is no right to make buildings over 75 meters, as they currently exist. The idea is that they do not affect the view and the city's vision towards Mount Vitosha. Since a large part of these buildings, which have already begun to take place, are raising public interest and perhaps one of the biggest and most serious problems is when such a building is being built, people are not widely aware of its project. The motive of the citizens who protest is that they were not actually informed and aware that in this place next to them, for example in the neighbouring regulated land estate, such a high building would be built. Here we have introduced a novelty, precisely in order for citizens to be much better informed, to have much more transparency when building and implementing such an investment project. We have introduced mandatory, I repeat, each such building, each such investment project, which is over 75 meters or which has over 20 thousand. kv. m the built-up area, to pass by a decision of the Municipal Council. The motive to introduce this decision of the Municipal Council is precisely for the purpose of transparent adoption of such investment projects. You know that there are groups of every political formation in the Sofia Municipality Council and this will undoubtedly ensure that such a project will not remain simply in compliance with the law, there will still have to be political will for its implementation. The other novelty, which is introduced into the high building, is precisely any such project, which is over 75 m and 20 thousand. kv. m the built-up area, to go with a separate detailed plan and a separate working plan, and if we accept the Bill, then Sofia Municipality and the Municipal Council will also have to adopt an entirely new regulation that is related to the transport and communication provision of such buildings, namely to introduce an obligation for each such investment project to be accompanied by transport simulations, which in other Western countries and more developed cities is a long time ago introduced. This is missing with us so far, but if we approve the Bill, we will oblige Sofia Municipality to adopt precisely such a regulation, with which such transport simulations will show not only as at present it is an obligation for each such building to have collateral from the perspective of the parking spaces, but to have collateral and to see how one such building will generate it, as well as the flow of cars, how it will affect the whole neighborhood. Although there is no such simulation at the moment in Sofia Municipality, I know such projects, where seeing that there is such a problem with the realization of such a building, investors themselves are prepared to make additional technical measures so that the human flow and the flow of cars is not difficult not only for the building and for the people who will work or live in these buildings, but also for the people who pass and use the infrastructure in the respective neighborhood. When we talk about high construction, in the motives and what we have talked to colleagues, it is that we do not want it to come out that we hardly want to ban or restrict the investment process, but rather we want to regulate it and tell investors where and exactly what they can build, as there are gaps in the current law and in the Law on Construction in the territory, of which, of course, investors benefit. A large part of the high buildings you see in Sofia, which have been realized in recent years, take advantage of precisely such opportunities given by the Law on Construction in the territory where the so-called art. 27, para. 3 of the LU allows when you have connected construction in two regulation lines and you fall into a mixed multifunctional area, which is the most favorable area for construction, then you do not have a limit in density and intensity. That is why this door with colleagues we have accepted is no longer possible and it is only possible for regulated land properties, which are no more than 500 sq. M, and only in order to cover the existing turbots next door. But by limiting this, we are giving investors another opportunity, we are giving Sofia the opportunity to have, we are introducing a new area, which is called a very high building, which will geographically be in both the eastern and the west, end of Sofia, where such high buildings, called skyscrapers, will be able to be implemented, where there will be no limit in the height of construction. For each area in the entire part of the urban and urban area there will be respectively different areas where there will be a very precise and clearly defined end of the cota cornice, of which regardless of the possibilities of the existing development plan and detailed planning plan, it will not be exceeded precisely in order to have a comprehensive image and vision for the whole city. By enabling investors in these two zones from the east to the west, I am talking about the 7th kilometer of the Tsarigradsko shose and on the other side of the ring road in the area of Lyulin, where there is really good security on the part of infrastructure, there are existing metrolines built, there is an idea for the expansion of one of the metrodiameters, precisely to Lyulin, to the ring road, precisely in order to be able to secure such an area for very high construction, precisely there for investors to tell them that if they want to make such buildings, we can and we give them the opportunity to set up such business centres where there is no such restriction. Of course, they will have to comply with the existing Law on Device in the Area, but height at certain parameters will not be a problem. This is about the high construction and construction in Sofia. On this topic of conclusion, I would like to say: I do not want it to come out in any way that we are looking to limit investment. On the contrary, we want them to continue giving air to the city of Sofia because this is really important to us and we are all talking about economics, incomes, development of regions. Sofia is undoubtedly an attractive center for investors and not only our investors, but also investors from other countries, from other nationalities. That is why we want and it is high time that I think even the Bill has been delayed, to some extent, to give a clear vision and to each investor to know what the maximum eligibility is, and not to look for opportunities and loopholes in the Law, so that one way or another to increase the area, density, the intensity of the development of its investment project. The other important topic that is addressed in... [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] I'll continue with my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u182	And thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm opening the discussion on the submitted bill. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda is the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. For me and for us, this proposal is rather late. We are witnessing numerous contradictions and conflicts related to the development of the city and the implementation of Sofia's Common Planning Plan, which is acting and finally adopted in 2009. I do not need to give examples of such situations, they are reflected daily by the media. The great task that we have before us is to show at the moment with these legislative changes that are being proposed, whether we can be of assistance to the citizens and ultimately guarantee a sustainable development of the city, taking into account the most important, guaranteeing their living environment and their performance. I must say that we will support this Bill at first reading. At the same time, we have many remarks on legislative techniques and the signing of certain legislative proposals in it. I'm not going to spell them out, but there are literal contradictions and differences with the Code of Conduct on the territory. If you want, there are actual mistakes, etcetera. That is not the point, this can be cleared between first and second readings. A few things we will hold on to and make proposals until the final adoption of the Bill. It is clear to us that there should be a regulation on the heights of buildings in Sofia. This situation, where there are areas in which there is essentially no maximum cat cornice, allowed this urban chaos in Sofia. Sofia will lose and to a large extent already lost its image with this promiscuous construction of high buildings not where they belong, without taking into account, again I say, elementary engineering, transport and communication difficulties that create these buildings. So we accept that there are maximum heights on certain areas and, of course, we will make our proposals on them. You know that it is a small loophole, but used exclusively in recent years in the case of the notorious art. 27, para. 3 of the Law on the construction of the territory, which concerns corner plots, plots of related construction, which essentially enabled them to be exceeded and no restrictions on the parameters for construction. It was on this base that these extremely high buildings were produced in mixed multifunctional construction areas. Importers have tried to regulate this order and limit it within properties up to 500 squares. I will say that the BSP parliamentary group will submit additional proposals and, to the maximum extent, close these possibilities, which gives the legislation renovations and rebuildings of such type of property as have been used for the time being very actively. We also accept the introduction of a mechanism in which buildings with a public function with more than 20 thousand square meters. m, with heights over 75 m, will be discussed at the Sofia Municipal Council. The municipal council is the body of local self-government, where all political forces, a body of local self-government, are ultimately represented, which has enough publicity in its work. There is nothing wrong with being aware of what is happening and what is being approved, and not the situation so far with the signature of the chief architect to witness when he is already being built to understand essentially what is going to happen. We like this, and we will work with our proposal for the clear definition of the green system and that for the first time the category of interblock space is introduced and the protection of the constructed green systems for urban use in these interblock spaces. This is an extremely sick issue for the capital. Perhaps our city is one of the few capitals that in its central part has this image. It is good that there is a mandatory requirement in the proposed Bill to be made and Regulation on the urban environment with rules and regulations for the face of the capital. There is no capital to which the facades in the center look the same as ours at the moment, and it turns out that the local authorities do not have a mechanism which obliges the owners to be brought into the respective aesthetic or European form for this. So a number of proposals that we will make are in the spirit of protecting the interests of the citizens, protecting the green areas and improving the parameters of living in the middle. Our proposals will be even more restrictive than those who have importers at the moment. That concludes the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Interblock space has long been a garage space. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a reply, but in fact I would like to express an attitude towards the speech of colleague Zhelyo Boychev, including the position of colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I believe that until now their position has been responsible and has taken into account the problems in Sofia. I think, although without losing our positions as governors and opposition, that there was a responsible dialogue that should benefit the development of Sofia. I express my belief that between first and second reading we will conduct such a constructive dialogue without blaming ourselves without taking the skeletons out of the wardrobe and seeking one or another responsibility. The second thing I took the floor for is to make a procedural proposal to extend plenary time as we vote on this bill. Obviously, there are at least two or three other colleagues who want to make short speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u186	Okay, you're making an offer to extend the hours until closing. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov to extend the working time until the bill is adopted. They voted 125 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. There's a word for a line, Mr. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line to Mr. Boychev is in connection with a part of his speech where he said that the problems of our city will be solved. I ask: of my city who will solve the questions and in what law? I'm from Burgas. Who will decide the law on the city of my colleague Slavcho Atanasov In this regard, I believe that what we are doing will, of course, be approved because, as I see it, the two great political forces are set to support it in the National Assembly and it cannot fail. But I think that this is a step in the wrong direction.. wrong from the perspective of the future development of Bulgaria, wrong, because again it shows some old stereotypes from the time of Bay Tosho, when Sofia was a separate country from the rest of Bulgaria. With such an approach, separating Sofia from the other major urban centers, we cannot want to move the country forward. I think this is wrong and I say that I will vote against it at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, for the line. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Boychev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Petrov, this is not about opposition of individual cities to each other, but it is about regulatoryly settled issues in Bulgaria and I can say traditionally. In front of me is the Law for the Construction of Sofia from 1934 with its changes and final amendments from 1937. The Law for the Construction of the Area since 2001 provides for the creation of a special law for the construction and construction of Sofia Municipality. What my colleagues are doing is not going to protect him at the moment, but they are making an addition to the current Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. I do not object to your approach, and none of us wants to share one part of the country with another, but I do remember that there is also a Law on the structure and construction of the Black Sea coast that regulates such a type of relationship. You are a representative from the Burgas region and can present this type of legislative initiative for Burgas if you think it is appropriate. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any other statements on the submitted bill? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I fully support the conclusions made by my colleague Boychev in his speech about the weaknesses that he has in the original version of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Mr. Petrov, you are also right that with this Law we are somehow trying to regulate and fix the problems in Sofia. But, colleagues, each of you at least two or three days a week is in Sofia and you can all see what an outrage it is in Sofia about construction, traffic jams and everything else. I'll even give you an interesting example. According to European regulations and requirements of a hen to feel happy and free, it needs 4 sq. M. I think that in recent years a Sofian began to be owed less than a free and happy hen in the European Union. So we really need to think about and take concrete steps to solve at least partly the problems, because this is solving the problems in part, because the problem with the structure and the construction of Sofia Municipality is determined and solved through a long-term vision that is being done in the General Development Plan. And since I am facing a dilemma, whether or not to support the First Voting Bill, I have a specific question for the importers: Mr. Nenkov, if I vote for the winner, does that mean that we will solve the problem with the skyscraper in the Sagittarius? You know that you and I are from the twenty-third election district of Sofia, and on our territory is the case in question, for which there were protests in the second half of 2017. My specific question is: will we stop building this skyscraper in the Strelkishte, as well as the other seven-eight, which are highly designed and prepared for building and will we solve the problem of building the green areas in the neighborhoods? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u192	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. If we follow this logic, we'll probably have to expand the Reserve Act. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, just to remind you that the General Development Plan did not accept it GERB. When GERB came to power, it had entered into force. Is that right? That's right. Now, let's think about what would happen if we now, and in principle there is such a desire from Sofia Municipality, there is a procedure that has begun, if we wait for the next common planning to come into effect, imagine that this will happen somewhere in at least five or six years. Given that we have this increased investor interest, you imagine that when this General Development Plan comes into force, the next construction crisis will surely have come, so we will be long after the events. That's what the coworkers' motives are for. Let us not go into this political opposition, because indeed the Bill aims at a long-term development of the city to tell where tall buildings can be built and where they cannot. Your example of chickens, excuse me, what do you suggest: to stop the investment interest in the city and to make a moratorium on construction, provided that there is a demand, there is also a supply? That's the market principle. What do you want us to do? Paris to stop developing, London to stop developing in Sofia, we to be the only ones to do it. Yes, you are! Sofia is developing, in my opinion, balanced and we should approach constructively with you as soon as possible. The sooner we adopt the Law, the more we improve its regulations, the more likely it is that these projects, which you mentioned, will not happen in the way they are currently being proposed. There are probably more than 10-15 such projects standing on the agenda, and it depends on us how much will and desire we have to help Sofia in her attempt to deal with this problem, because it is not Sofia's problem, it is not Fandakova's problem, it is all the Sofians' problem. It is up to us whether we are constructive or not and whether we are going to take a step forward, but we cannot stop the investment interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u194	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Prodanov's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u195	Mr. Nenkov, you must have misunderstood me. I did not want to politicize the issue in any way, because if I wanted to politicize it, I would ask you, for example, what is going on with Decision No 655-16 of the Sofia Municipal Council, which was commissioned in 2016 by Sofia's chief architect to start drawing up a long-term vision that was two years ago. So I do not want to politicize the issue, I want to make an appeal between first and second reading to support and the proposals that we will make by the opposition, so that we can really make some kind of acceptable Law and stop the outrage in Sofia. Make sure this isn't the perfect solution. The ideal solution is the adoption of a Master Plan, so I didn't want to politicize the debate, I just wanted to appeal to you to accept our proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u196	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. The word for it is Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be one of the few non-Sofiaans who will allow themselves to speak under this Law, as it actually affects many topics that are inherent not only in Sofia, and problems that are looking for a solution. High construction is also a precedent. For example, this is the main motive for the emergency order with which we accept this bill. This is also a problem not only of Sofia, this problem exists in other Bulgarian cities. Decisions to define special areas for high construction is also something I consider a good idea, which should have a wider scope in principle in our legislation. The same is the situation with the ideas developed in the theme "Development" with the ideas for communication research of the buildings are good ideas that are applicable not only to the territory of Sofia. In fact, we are discussing this subject because of certain civic activity, in specific cases, and perhaps we are acting in the right way, I think. This was the reason for much of the negative opinions of professional organizations, because we are practically changing Sofia's General Planning Plan without being in the process of change, citing the fact that the Law on Sofia is a separate Law and stepping on the initiative of individual MPs. This in all cases hides some risks related primarily to public discussion, the ability of citizens, businesses, NGOs, professional organisations to tell their opinions on the proposals. In this regard, as President of the Commission for Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, I have tried to compensate for this deficiency by deliberately making public discussion of the subject, which enjoys an extremely great interest. More than 20 were the organisations that spoke, most critically, by the way, including the regional mayor of one of the areas where the creation of such a skyscraper zone is envisaged, also expressed a negative opinion on the issue. In fact, we have an extraordinary way to solve Sofia's actual current problem, and I think that by adopting this Law, because there is clearly a majority for its adoption, we need to be aware that this cannot become a practice of amending Sofia's Common Planning Plan, because the order recorded in the Law on Structure in the territory is different and it actually meets the interests in principle of citizenship and of all communities. In this respect, our group will probably not have a single opinion.. there will be colleagues who will support, there will be colleagues who will refrain from support. In any case, we express the serious intention to discuss and propose an amendment between first and second readings, if, of course, at first reading the Law, and on the subject of the new powers of the chief architect, the committees of the Sofia Municipal Council, which are given in the area. I also think it is appropriate that this period between the two readings, firstly, be as long as possible, and, secondly, to try again to take into account the opinions of those NGOs who have a professional attitude to the subject. Thank you for your attention. I hope, by solving these problems, to think really not only about solving them where they are the sharpest in the territory of Sofia Municipality, but in principle to consider the applicability of these measures in our national legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. A move to vote on a bill at first reading of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 754-01-67, submitted by Alexander Rumen Nenkov and a group of MPs, on 4 October 2017. They voted 122 MPs: 109, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for extending the deadline for submitting proposals between first and second readings to be maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-11.u200	I put to the vote Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the bill to the maximum term. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, the agenda of today's sitting was exhausted. The next session is tomorrow. "January 12th, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
