ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we're moving on to today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Parliamentary control includes debate on questioning, No 754-05-56 of 22 December 2017, by MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy. This request was answered in the plenary sitting on 15 December 2017, Friday. At the same meeting 64 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 15 December 2017, Friday. A second draft for a decision by seven MPs from the GERB parliamentary group on 18 January 2018, Thursday, which was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Projects for decisions to be voted on have been tabled: First, a draft decision submitted by 64 MPs of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I give the floor to the importers. Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to brief us on the motives and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Deputy Prime Minister! E-government in Bulgaria has been mentioned since 1998. Since then, at least a few hundred million levs have been used to build e-government in the state administration. Several strategies have been written, many successes have been reported, but the practical result is significantly below the expectations of citizens and businesses. In Bulgaria there are 265 municipalities and over 500 administrations in total. The main part of administrative services for citizens and businesses, nearly 80%, is provided by the municipal administration. It is true that until 10 years ago only half of municipal administrations had some presence on the Internet, while today there is practically no administration without a website. A large part of the administrations have introduced systems to automate some of the work processes. The civil status, ECGRAON and local taxes and fees systems have been implemented in each municipality. However, it is in municipal administrations that the problems are the most severe and, unfortunately, they are systematically neglected at the expense of the central administration, where about 90% of all electronic governance funds are invested. Usually the measure of success is the funds used and the number of electronic services introduced. However, it should be borne in mind that the development of electronic management in Bulgaria should not aim at the electronization of paper processes in the administration, but rather their optimization by introducing electronic processes and information systems to increase the quality of administrative service and reduce the administrative burden on its participants and users. Who knows why, however, Mr. Donchev spent more than half of his time answering this tribune in connection with our questioning regarding the policy of building electronic control a few days ago to convince us that computer and electronic control are incompatible concepts. And the future of electronic governance in Bulgaria was hidden in the connection of electronic registers, colleagues, which is why the problems with its introduction with change in more than 100 laws began to become decisive. If really the electronization of the administration and the e-government have nothing to do with it, then I am asking myself: is it possible to have electronic control without computers in the administration? It's probably possible as much as possible to drive a car without an engine. The idea of changing a hundred more laws can probably only be explained by the desire to delay the realization of e-government to wait until the funds planned under the Operational Program are absorbed and planned. However, it became clear from Mr. Donchev's reply to me why he and the State Agency so far did not attempt to give an accurate assessment of what, when and how much money was spent by us for the introduction of the electronic government. The explanation of this can only be one fear of the terrifying truth spent in recent years hundreds of millions without tangible results in administrative reform and without the real introduction of electronic governance. I would like to point out that the conclusion we draw in the Bulgarian BSP on the poor state of the implementation and implementation of e-government and the poor quality of administrative reform in Bulgaria is not just our finding. It is based on facts which, in fact, Mr. Donchev and his subordinate administration acknowledge themselves. The State Report and the Annual Plan for the Development and Upgrading of Information Resources in the Administration and Information Resources of the Unified Electronic Communication Network of the State Administration and for the National Security Needs of August last year says: A significant number of electronic administrative services have been developed in recent years. However, their popularity and accessibility is still unsatisfactory. Factors are therefore both the poor promotion of services and the lack of a single electronic identity for Bulgarian citizens. The practice of electronising various services for citizens and businesses is permanently established without, however, transforming into intra-administrative services accessible to other administrations. Instead, mechanisms shall be developed for their electronic declaration and for obtaining the ready-made documents at a desk in the relevant administration. In this way, an administrative burden is digitised without really applying the basic principle of e-government for single collection and multiple use of data. We, too, from the Bulgarian BSP, as well as the authors of this document, are convinced that this statement is true because the facts about the implementation of electronic government in Bulgaria are eloquent, but we believe that the reason for this is precisely that in the last seven-eight years GERB has allowed mass financing of meaningless projects only for the purpose of absorption of funds, which has led to the current results in administrative reform and electronic governance. In no case do we accept that electronic management is a project that is implemented once and that ends. We are talking about a set of well-considered activities and targeted work on maintenance and continuous improvement of the implemented systems. It's not about a project, it's about a trial. Working, efficient and comprehensive electronic governance in the Republic of Bulgaria will restore trust in the administration and will practically improve the development of business and democracy in our country. However, the analysis of the Managing Programme for the period 2017 - 2021 in the development of e-government as a basis for the modernisation of the state administration and so on, Priority 64, gives us no hope that the issues mentioned above will find their answer within this management mandate. Some of the measures provided for in the Management Program are simply pointless and show either the ignorance of the person who wrote them or are an attempt to easily take account of insanely expensive megaprojects from which there will again be no usable results. On the other hand, the Operational Programme is developed by an instrument for reforming the administration, combined with the construction of e-government in a means of large-scale absorption of European and budgetary resources. As a result, projects envisaged for implementation under the Programme are not only highly resized. Some of them at times, not in percentages, but they will give the same unusable results, which gave the majority of the projects implemented by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications under the previous Operational Programme. The initiative of the State Agency "Electronical management" to create an architectural framework of e-government is encouraging because it could indicate the correct path for the development of e-government. However, there is a small risk of supporting the old technologies for draining the funds and of attempting to integrate and accordingly pour more funds into proven systems and resources. By the way, we've given some examples of the last few days for these. In our daily meetings with our fellow citizens, we, the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, are constantly receiving information about incompetence, sluggish and poorly organized work of various administrative bodies and at different levels in the administration. We are convinced that a significant part of the problems related to the work of the administration can be solved by the means of e-government, but we ask ourselves the question: why after several years of work and millions of spent levs by the GERB governments do not have practically usable results in the construction of e-government? We believe that issues of responsibility, of lost time and wasted money...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u3	It's not just GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u4	[[to the President]] Please take an attitude! ...and the need to reform the work on e-government are important for our society [[speaking indistinctly]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u6	...and should receive the necessary attention. In this sense, it is really necessary for us from BSP to Bulgaria to establish a temporary parliamentary committee which, in order to avoid repeated errors for years, will make a full review of the funds spent in Bulgaria and a comprehensive analysis of the reasons that led to mass waste of funds, indicating the persons and bodies responsible for it. We propose that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Tomislav Donchev should draw up a detailed plan for the construction of electronic governance in a short time. The plan shall specify the types of systems and activities for their deployment for all To give time forecast for the digitalization of administrative services in a really usable form, to give a full scheme for financing activities for the construction of electronic management, including activities in municipal administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You didn't read the Decision Project. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u8	Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 754-05-56 of 22 November 2017, by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a temporary parliamentary committee to make a full review of the funds spent on e-government in Bulgaria and a comprehensive analysis of the reasons that led to mass waste of funds, indicating the responsible persons and bodies. The Commission shall be composed of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two from each Parliamentary Group, with a period of validity until 28 February 2018. 2. By 28 February 2018, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Tomislav Donchev will prepare a detailed plan for the construction of e-government. The plan shall specify the types of systems and their deployment activities for all administrations at central, regional and municipal level. To give time forecast for digitalization of administrative services in a really usable form. To provide a complete scheme for financing of e-government activities, including activities in municipal administrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u10	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues of BSP, this debate, which we are about to have today, is necessary because e-government we owe it to our society. However, I do not know how timely this debate is, because the whole process has been going on for nearly 16 years. If we want the debate that we are going to have to be constructive and it takes us faster to the goals that we have set, we need to focus on what we have, what we need to build, so that we ultimately achieve the results that we need. Therefore, I will try very briefly to outline the framework of what we have so far and is done so that it can serve as a starting point for the forthcoming debate. I think we're going to find some common ground with you, colleagues, because, by clearing the emotion that you just heard in your motives, there are really things that we can think about, unite and move on with our lives. The story of e-governance starts like this: in nine governments in the tenth, somewhere far in time, the foundations of e-governance were laid. Unfortunately, however, they were placed in the wrong direction. Whether because of misunderstanding or because that is how circumstances were taken into account we have received as a result the opportunity to duplicate paper services with electronic, which we are currently reporting for error. As a result of the policies then, mass hardware was purchased, which, of course, is necessary, there is nothing wrong with that, and software was introduced. One of the mistakes that was made and took place mainly at the time of the existence of the Ministry of Administration and Administrative Reform was to enable municipalities and agencies to introduce software by deciding and assessing themselves for their own needs what they should be. At the moment this led to the following result: we have software whose protocols do not communicate with each other, and the registers cannot exchange data. This is indeed a fact at this point. Let us also note, however, what really is visible, what has happened, it may have been in the past about a year and is probably provoking this debate, which I think is still timely. Forty-third National Assembly with the votes of all parliamentary parties voted to amend the Law on Electronic Governance, which actually enables us to make a change in the regulatory base, because here is the root of the whole problem. Yes, we are currently examining Estonia's good example, but let us not forget that in Estonia, on the third time, they are introducing the electronic governance they currently have and which is indeed an example. Then we have a complete Strategy by 2020 with the corresponding roadmap that sets the priorities, sets the steps that need to be walked. We have an architecture of electronic governance that is being completed at the moment, and I hope that we will be able to meet it very soon. We have something very important that has now, since 2018, come into force, and this is the new funding order. We note that funding over the years has not been in the right way, because at the moment we cannot understand what funds are really being spent on electronic governance. We know that the only safe money is some around 101 million, which are spent under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" and all other funds are together with current and capital expenditure. We are therefore introducing the new order of programme budgeting where we have a special application to the procedure for adoption of the budget and it is clear in what way who, how for, what needs, whether this is aimed at e-government, and especially whether it is effective and efficient, which we care about in order to have the result that is needed. Another important thing is that this whole process should be managed by someone and fortunately we already have a working State Agency for Electronic Governance. We wish she would really do her job quality. With all this in place, it takes three things to have success and results that we want. These are rules, people and resources. For the resources I will not talk about we have available, we need to improve, we need to reorganise in some way that is happening at the moment. People know that one of the highest-paid professions is the IT specialists, and we offer them a civil servant's salary. However, we have quality employees who work in this sector, which we rely on and we need to find the right motivation for them. We get to the third most important thing: these are the rules from which we started in the last year. In fact, the change of laws that gives us the solid foundation for everything else we have. I'm going to use your example, yes, it's nice to have a car, yes, it's bound to have an engine, but if we can't drive and we don't know where we're going, it doesn't make any sense of this car. You've seen that by dropping the criminal record, we've changed. I think it's 68 laws, which is an extremely big deal in terms of changing the regulations. I therefore appeal for the debate that we are going to have right now to be in this direction: how to reorganise and organise all that we have. Unfortunately, I can't agree with what you're suggesting. First of all, you are proposing again another committee to investigate, and I will quote you on the mass spending of funds, that is precisely what is the argument to your proposal. I don't know exactly how you defined the funds spent on e-government, given that they are nowhere accounted for as being spent on it. Yeah, you asked the departments, they answered you, and in the euphoria to show how much work they did on electronic control, they read you the cost of their mobile phones.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u11	Mr. Sirakov, this may be about the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u12	Yes, thank you. So I think we should focus on what is currently being done, how we can upgrade it. We do not need a new plan at the moment to be built in a month, because we have a whole new Strategy, a complete Strategy with a road map and the architecture of electronic governance. What we propose: let us oblige the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev, in a reasonable time before the National Assembly to present a report on the current state of the developed horizontal components of e-government and the way for their accelerated implementation in a wide range of administration, including in municipal and regional administrations. Let us, on an annual basis, receive an annual report on what has been done so far and a plan for what is to come. If you'll allow me, Madam President, to read the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u13	Read the solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u14	? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debate on questioning, No 754-05-56 of 22 November 2017, by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It obliges Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev by 31 March 2018 to present to the National Assembly a report on the current state of the developed horizontal components of e-government and ways for their accelerated deployment in a wide range of administrations. 2. Instructs Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to submit to the National Assembly the annual status report and an annual plan for the development and renewal of information resources in the administration, and the resources of the single electronic communication network of the state administration and for the needs of national security after adoption by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u15	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Please make statements if there are to be speeches. Last call! Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u16	Madam President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Deputy Prime Minister! It is unacceptable, Mr. Donchev, when you spoke a few days ago about the government's policy to introduce and implement electronic governance in Bulgaria, not to stress the need for means of qualification and re-qualification of administration, not to comment on the door-knocking need for alternative employment for the personnel who will go away from the system because of the introduction of electronic services in the administration. We expected you to point out measures to address the desperate only 5% citizens who are the only ones seeking and using electronic services, and point out the specifics of how you will change this bleak statistic. We were surprised that you did not talk about a change in the educational policy of Bulgaria, which would break ten-year stereotypes and attitudes, including young people, and how you would encourage them in the process of learning and acquiring functional literacy to search and use electronic services. We were also surprised that you have no vision of more than 70 electronic registers that are maintained in each of the 400 municipal and regional administrations, which, as they say, offer more than 80% of the administrative services to citizens. You have no idea of financing these same municipal administrations, although only for a month before New Year's Eve the government hastily allocated to what billion and a half of the budget surplus. If you had done any of this, dear Mr. Donchev, you would have convinced not only us, but the Bulgarian people that you have an idea how to build electronic governance and how to make this process sustainable and working. I will support my claims with two real examples. The first, a contractor company has developed an electronic service system. This service is one of the few announced on the website of the State Agency for Electronic Governance. How many times has it been used, it's unclear. In the implementation of the project worth 2 million 149 thousand. lv. without VAT are used about a million leva only for activity under position one.. validation of electronic documents, printout of electronic documents and so on. At first glance, everything is fine, Regulation 910/2014 of the European Parliament is being implemented. The system has been working for more than two years and has been implemented, just notice only in 7 out of 500 administrations. These are the State Agency for e-government, the municipal administrations of the city. You will probably not be surprised at Gabrovo, Troyan, Bratsigovo, Byala Slatina, NI and at the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development. How many citizens have registered in the system is not known. It is interesting to know whether the members of the government, your colleagues, Mr. Donchev, have registrations as well. But the question is obviously rhetorical. Is the system really working? Obviously not! Does anyone expect this system to be used, colleagues? I don't think so. The main reason for not using the service system is that there is simply nothing to be served in electronic form. In order for acts to be served on the executive, they should also be signed by an electronic signature establishing the identity of the administrative authority which has signed the instrument. In addition, such acts and under Regulation 910 must be stamped with an electronic seal establishing that the signatory has the power to do so declared by the relevant administration. Instead of the government's efforts to provide electronic signature identification and to ensure the necessary legal application in the administrative practice of digital stamps, they sabotaged the adoption of the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria. A few months ago for legal changes ensuring the use of electronic signature for identification. Mr. Donchev, you really sabotaged yourself! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There is no electronic signature identification, no issued and signed documents and a multimillion-dollar system has nothing to hand out and do nothing. Do you actually know what you're doing?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Finally, those of your employees in charge of the system even advertise it and claim that it allows service of documents for administrative services, acts, tickets, electronic slips, penal decrees, etc. and that it can be used for various documents which must be served or communicated by law. In this situation, fellow Members, are we surprised that citizens have not stepped up to register to use this system? The second example showing the obvious incompetence in management is related to your response, Mr. Donchev, at our request a few days ago, when you mentioned only the intention of related electronic registers to exchange, I quote "successful documents." Obviously, for you, this is an element of what is called a complex administrative service. In fact, goal 233 of the Government Program is formulated "Presentation of effective electronic administrative services for citizens and businesses and implementation of complex administrative services." But will it be enough to connect several registers? Don't you know that for each of the main 500 administrations dozens of main registers are served? Complex administrative service may be a true direction in the development of the service of the population, but let's look at the facts and see what you really foresee. The development of this service is planned to be implemented with a European project for which about 15 million will be spent this year. BGN, which will be invested in the creation of 100-150 new centers for complex administrative services. These centres are planned to serve as a mediator between the population and the administration, i.e. administration will contribute to the citizens' relationship with the administration! It's typical and quite in the spirit of absorption! Naturally, the concept of the Council of Ministers for these centres does not make it clear why such an intermediary is needed at all, for example why 150 municipal administrations are not equipped with appropriate software and hardware for the implementation of electronic management on the ground? Obviously, it's far more useful, but there's no way a firm of ours can do it! Mr. Donchev, don't you understand the technological senselessness of such a project?! Why would you implement it instead of the money for this project is not intended to develop the available software of municipal administrations, for which there is no planned funds for electronic management in the budget for this year? Why not also allow the town halls to provide electronic administrative services? It is obvious, honourable Members, that the architects of this project in its main part have provided for the use of funds for renting premises, office equipment, computers and other equipment, that is to say for the creation of another unnecessary administrative unit! I could continue to give many more examples, such as the one we gave just a few days ago and which is why we now want the prosecution to decipher the Special Services reports in relation to the Customs Agency's system. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u17	It has nothing to do with the subject. The room reacts, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u18	There is, there is in common, because this is part of the projects for a non-functioning system, which has in fact been manipulating revenues in the state treasury for years, the BASIS system. In fact, I could continue, as I said, to give a lot more examples and projects that have been spent on or are about to be spent on state budget funds or on European programmes, examples that actually come from your answers to our current questions from the last few months. I think this is unnecessary because I believe that you understand better than I do that there is really a need for another model for the introduction and implementation of the elements of electronic management in Bulgaria, a model that will stimulate the implementation of software products useful to the administration. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u20	The procedure is the way it's run. Madam President, what we are currently dealing with is a debate. There was a question that was answered. In some way, it was decided that the subject was important and needed to get into the debate. This, in my opinion, does not fully correspond to the regulation that we have made for such a formula, because I assume that what will happen now is that the MPs of the different political forces will speak here, or only from one political force, and eventually Mr. Donchev will come out, say a few words and we will be done. For me, that doesn't match the formula of the debate. I think the topic is important and I am convinced that both the opposition people and Mr. Donchev have something to say about it. For me this whole exercise makes sense if it really becomes a real debate I suggest, since we have a certain time, these are the procedural rules in the Chamber, at the same time Mr. Donchev can take the floor several times when he wants and as much as he wants, which is right. My proposal to Mr. Donchev and to you specifically is this. To make the debate real, many questions were asked, they are real. I call on Mr. Donchev to join us now so we can have a real debate, not just knock him over and transfer him. My proposal is with all those who were put, perhaps not now, perhaps to hear colleagues from GERB and then, but do not wait until we finally let Mr. Donchev speak only the last three or five minutes, say his words and leave, because it makes sense the whole exercise and parliamentary logic of what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Donchev knows that at any time I can take the floor, you urged him. Let's move on. [[Noise and lines.]] First line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a line for Mr. Danchev because he mentioned the system at the Customs Bankis. This is an accurate example of how e-governance, in your opinion, implemented, managed by someone in this case, can have a very bad impact on the revenue side of the budget. Therefore, corruption, colleagues, is no longer just in the spending area, when you buy computers, printers, we understand that you have included your mobile phones inside, probably also fuels to go to buy them, but we are talking about corruption in revenue. You hide revenue precisely by introducing or not introducing electronic control. Mr. Danchev, my question to you is: is that correct? Does this system have any attempts to conceal, hide excise duties, tax evasion and any income? By introducing e-government the way colleagues see it, will it not become even more dangerous and even more harmful for the Bulgarian state if they continue to introduce it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u24	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! In this situation, both with the first line and with Mr. Kutev's procedure, Madam President, I would like to make a procedure first about what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u25	You're doing a procedure right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u26	I'm doing a procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is important, my fellow Members, that we establish this because the speaker at this time refers to classified information which we decided on yesterday at the Conference of Presidents how it will be used. We've made a commitment to ask for her declassification. However, this information is currently closed and its use and disclosure should be subject to the special law. This is where I start the procedure. Madam President, please give clear instructions to the speakers as to how much we include this topic, which is for a separate meeting, in a separate debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u27	Mr. Kirilov, I was going to make such a statement to my colleagues about the report. Proceed with the line now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u28	The line to my colleague Danchev is this. My fellow Member, you have given the most inappropriate example in view of your thesis, which actually confirms the result and the efforts that our government has put into place. I'll tell you the following case. Colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria attended this working group. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] During the discussion of the Working Group on the amendments and additions of the Administrative Procedure Code, all sceptics of the proposed changes for electronic service and communication in administrative matters and administrative court proceedings were convinced of the effect of this system. It was demonstrated by representatives of the State Agency for Electronic Governance. I must definitely emphasise that this system has convinced all the skepticism gathered in all, including the representative magistrates of the judiciary, that it can lead to real electronic justice. You will yet see the effects and results of the action of this electronic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The third line is off. Here you go, Mr. Danchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing this procedure in the manner of conduct and the way in which it is commented in the Chamber, because here the subject of the BASIS system has been opened. I just want to tell you not to make a comment to colleagues, nor to stop them from speaking, as the data and information that is currently being commented here is based on publications in the media. I don't know at what point or at what stage the dissecration has reached, but today, very extensive and precisely in several media, not to quote them, is described what happened. In practice, it is no longer a secret to anyone, and I expect Mr. Deputy Prime Minister to take the attitude, including understanding how much money has been given to this system because we understand that over 300 people have entered and what has not happened there! I don't see why you're making a remark. It's normal here to discuss, to hear the answers from officials what's going on there. When it's released and there's something else you can't talk about here in this room, it'll be clear and we'll talk about it. Today we are talking on the basis of publications in the media. There's nothing secret, nothing secret. If you want, I'll bring it to you and show it to you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I think the remark was quite well-intentioned to protect you from the fact that the report is classified. There's no drama. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am not worried about anything related to the system that we are currently commenting on about Customs. We comment on the technical part, how effective it is in relation to the objectives for which it is created. Apart from that, some information that was classified, made public by this tribune, has not been published, as newspapers and electronic media abound with far more profound comments and analyses on the subject of the effect of the system's work in Customs and about... [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u33	Mr. Kirilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u34	That will become clear when you de-secret the reports, Mr. Kirilov. What are the findings that have been made not by us, but by the special services? Whether there is a concealment, Mr. Svilenski, of your question, I suggest we investigate the matter after the dissecration of the report, which we hope will happen very soon. Regarding the electronic service system, I will ask Mr. Kirilov again: how many people have registered to use this system? How many administrations have registered and participated with the relevant integration module, which is intended for a connection between the central service system and the individual administrations which have incorporated this module into the central system and actually served documents? Since this is where you said about the AKK debates, what documents are specifically served? We have information that a number of experts have also expressed their reservations in removing the way the system works and the way the documents are served through it. But I say again, the best indicator of the efficiency of a system is how much it is used, how much it costs compared to this use. Today we are talking about the effect of the millions of money spent and that there are no visible results from their spending that dozens of projects have been made. From the questions we have asked Mr. Donchev in recent months we have fracturing answers for dozens of projects, for million levs that do not work, which the administration itself does not use and does not intend to use. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u36	Honourable President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Why won't I support the BSP colleagues' proposal? The debate, in my opinion, is really important, timely, perhaps even a little late, because we have a great fallout due to a number of objective reasons precisely in building this electronic governance. I will start from there why can't I support your proposal? Looking at the motives, I have two questions. First question: either you don't understand what e-government is and what the processes are in it, in which I don't believe it is, or you're trying in a manipulative way to present some data you got from the ministries, from the departments, you see, as part of the creation of e-government, and you're trying to fool not only the auditorium, but also the public for spending hundreds of millions on e-government, which is actually not true. I'll try to explain why. Yeah, there must be a lot of projects that you can pull out that certainly have their inefficiencies, didn't contribute to e-government. That's probably true. Each administration has spent a different resource, even for any information communication technology, whether it be printers, computers, phones, but it is not electronic management. And that is part of the responsibility of each administration to fulfil its commitments. Most of the money even spent quite objectively went for the analog procedure to issue documents on paper. That's exactly what it is, both printers and computers... They didn't go for electronic control. If we see what e-government is, we need to give ourselves a clear answer that e-government is not even the issuance of services electronically, and that is when it is not necessary for the applicant to state at all that he wants any service, because information about whether you are married, when you are born, whether you are judged or not, should be contained in these arrays and the administrations themselves do not need to ask for it, even electronically, and they themselves draw it from other databases. And this is the electronic government. And if we look on this side for the e-government... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm gonna expect you to tell me what it is, because your education is obviously running away because it's not good to call from the scene. A line, if you don't mind. I didn't interrupt any coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u37	Mr. Yankov, please. You've got a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u38	Why is this money that you're talking about not true but manipulative? In fact, no more than 120-130 million were spent for electronic control. lv. We even spend significantly less money than other countries, including Estonia, which is set out as an example, on an annual basis compared to the budget, compared to the percentage ratio of gross domestic product. And in the end, we need to answer another question. If we are talking about some productive debate and there is some meaning in today's conversation, it is how Parliament really helps to create e-government, because one of the biggest problems of e-government are the administrations themselves. And it's not some secret, it's a fact. Because they themselves perceive their information and database that they have, as some internal government and in no way want to make it available to all institutions. And rather, we, as a legislative body, if anything, will contribute to the creation of a good electronic governance and relief of citizens and businesses, is precisely this: how and in what way to make the institutions themselves, whether it be state or municipal administrations, really take a step forward. What you are saying to create this Commission is not productive, in my opinion, because in one of the points you are saying to create a plan, a new plan... I apologize, fellow Members, but undoubtedly the last two governments have made it clear that they have the will to deal with this problem and take a decisive step. The Agency has been established "ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT". We voted together on the Law on Electronic Governance. There is a single technical protocol whereby each administration, when ordering and producing software, must meet this common uniform standard. We accepted in the Law all systems to be open-coded, copyright to be owned by the contracting authority, not as before, not to pay licenses each year. This is also the example of the toll system that we are currently trying to build in the same way. We have many steps ahead, and I do not think that at the moment such a Commission would be productive, but rather it would be some kind of an attempt to nudge, and it makes no sense. I propose Mr. Donchev as responsible for this policy and this is our decision to make concrete steps about the creation of e-government in the foreseeable future. If there are legislative initiatives that we urgently need to make, to be made available to our attention so that we too can do our job as a legislative body. But with the hundreds, the millions that have leaked somewhere... Yes, there must have been a lot of money spent, but they, colleagues, did not go for e-government, but rather went for purchasing various software or hardware products that benefit the current model of work and not for the benefit of the administrative services for business and for citizens. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would like to make a line for you. It is not the problem whether some BSP colleagues do not know what e-government is. The problem is that the Council of Ministers, ministers, including Mr. Donchev do not know what e-government is, because when we asked the question to every minister how much money has been spent to introduce electronic government in Bulgaria, these numbers have been submitted by the ministers, they do not know what e-government is. We want this committee to make it clear how much money has been spent on electronic control, how much for printers, how much for toners, how much for cell phones and more for this thing not to happen. That's what this debate is about, not about anything else, because your e-government is your priority. A year ago, you changed the law. You have made the Department of Education and have not changed the Director of this Agency after a year. Why did you change this man? Will you do this every year with a new director, or will we wait after the next debate after eight months to ask again how much funds are spent for e-government? It is therefore this Commission to see what has been spent, to see what has been done, to say who is responsible. If it is Mr. Zhelyazkov, you have properly removed him, but I think Mr. Zhelyazkov is a worthy chairman of this Agency and should not have removed him, but that is your right. Please support our proposal with all other decisions. Then about the plans, what we predict when we spend 100 million to know what we will have at the end of the year. Because the only thing you've done in electronic control, it's in the NRA, Customs, and the Health Insurance Fund to have a ticket set and instead of people standing up and registering themselves on lists, as it was in the old days, now they're sitting with the sheets and waiting for the same line in the same queues. This is your e-government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky! Mr. Ivanov, second line. Third line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u42	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Donchev, Dear Mr. Nenkov! Mr. Nenkov, it's nice when you speak from this tribune to accentuate a little bit of numbers that I'm sure you know them, but I don't know why you didn't use them. You know that at the moment there are about 3,700 users to whom over 7000 documents have been issued, we are no longer talking about certificates, but we are talking about documents. On the other hand, I'm sure you know that in two months the first project already has more than 2,700 registrations. And something else, Mr. Nenkov, when you started your statement about the structure of e-government after the Strategy we have a road map, after this road map, we have an architecture of this electronic management, these things are something other than the plan that colleagues are now trying to replace us and to load Mr. Donchev with an administrative burden to make a plan for e-government. We don't need a plan for the reason, as I said we have a structure, we have a strategy, we have a road map, we have an architecture of electronic governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u44	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Nenkov! Managing public processes using information and communication technologies is e-government, building in a virtual environment regulation and realizing relationships with public institutions or public service providers, i.e. a person, a legal person, a state or individual units in the country. Whatever you're explaining, you understand e-government as a text to the prime minister, and the prime minister with the SMS commands separate units in the institution. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For you, this is electronic control. But the key is that you rely on support with pressure on the administration, and an e-government will reduce the costs for the administration, but also the employed in this administration, and you will have less support from this administration and you will not be in power. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u46	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I have now really understood why your proposal is not supported. [[Radio and laughter in GERB.]] I thank my colleague Iankov for explaining to me what e-government is. I would remind him that just nine months ago with your president, whom you raised, who had a office, with all the pressure you put on the state administration, you lost the elections accordingly. [[Applause from GERB.]] So that answers the question of whether by pressure or texting we have won the election. And we're done here. As far as electronic management is concerned, colleagues, I can say, for example, that a super computer, which during Oresharski's time was purchased for 7-8 million, sits at the Agency absolutely unusable, obsolete as technology. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Maybe there was a good idea, but this project is completely lost anyway. So, colleague Danchev, and I can tell you many such examples. Yeah, it's true there's an inappropriate amount of money spent. It is true that administrations generally consider the purchase of equipment as part of electronic management. Yes, without technology it can't, but the very meaning of electronic control is radically different. And what I tried to say to my colleague Jankov in my speech just now is: yes, digitization, e-suppliing services, e-suppliing services is a part, and the future is when you don't need to do this as an applicant. This is the future of technology, of electronic control, not one, two, but ten, twenty years from now. This is the future. At the moment we have a very clear plan; we have a strategy to work on; there is funding for these projects; there is a road map that has been made within two years and I do not believe how a committee that we will create in Parliament will do something better. A great battle is the creation of electronic control, because the brake is largely the municipalities, largely the public administration, everyone wants to keep their information. That's the big problem! It's not a problem if Mr. Donchev wants or doesn't want or knows or knows what electronic control is. Make sure he knows! The problem is that we have to find a way, if we have to some time and with more serious, with more drastic measures as a legislative body, to make all the people who are going to be municipal or state, to take a step forward, not just with cheap nagging. That's not gonna happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Petrov. [[Noise and lines.]] Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I would like to say from the very beginning that the debate on electronic governance in Bulgaria is necessary, it must be led. This is a big problem that needs to be solved, but on the other hand, Mr. Danchev's exhibition did not inspire me to believe that the opposition had left... [[noise, lines and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ...doesn't inspire me to believe that the opposition has prepared itself well to propose something that we need to realize. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] Mr. Danchev was complaining earlier that his room was doing lines. He's doing lines right now. So, in that style, where are we going? He proposes that we make a commission to investigate abuses, thefts and so on, and in the same way a colleague of his proposed that we make a five-member committee of the National Assembly, that is, a ten-member committee to deal with the virus and eliminate it, and the committee to resolve the matter. Something similar is happening at the moment, and we not only hear and express from this tribune that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tomislav Donchev, a proven specialist, did not understand the theme for which he was appointed, and he should resign almost be removed. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] For they said, "You don't understand there compotes, there jars, what was it?" I would like to say that the e-government in Bulgaria has been discussed since the time of Deputy Prime Minister, again in the government, was appointed by Coburg... [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] Nikolai Vassilev, yes. He then started talking about governance, and then in this government, by the way, there was an active participation of BSP, then there was a triple coalition that also dealt with e-government, and as a result hundreds of millions of euros were stolen from pre-accession funds from BSP-next circles, for which we could not be condemned because we were not members of the European Union. Later, however, after 2007, however, when the action continued to form one of these, we said, an e-government... [[The people's representative Mustafa Karadaye enters the hall and looks at the speaker.]] Thanks for the careful look. [[Whimpering laughs]] Then we saw that the pushes of the BSP government in this direction went so far as to stop our EU funds. They stopped the EU funds because e-government hadn't gotten anywhere. Or after that... [[Noise, lines and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not the first time they stopped them, not the second time. [[BSP's comments and laughter for Bulgaria.]] Well, at the time that the BSP had already come to power and it was said between 2007 and 2009, there were large thefts committed, and we are stopping your funds to make a revision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u49	Who said that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u50	Okay. Then another colleague who often calls from this tribune that he is being replicated, constantly talking, he is next to Mr. Danchev. There he is, Mr. Svilensky, smiling. [[Whimpering laughs]] Very funny. Very funny! Let's laugh, yeah! [[Noise and lines.]] Then we were... [[Noise and lines.]] Because if we don't say that, we don't know what we're talking about. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky still wants to take the floor from the spot! Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u51	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u52	Now, he's very persistent... [[Noise and lines. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is leaving the hall.]] Mr. Karadaye is already bored. [[Whimpering laughs]] Then continued the efforts in this direction and it came to the fact that we had a threat here we are already entering the first term of GERB calmly, sharpen your ears! [[Noise and lines and laughter.]] We come to the fact that Bulgaria had to introduce a really big, serious management and monitoring system, the so-called ISU system, at the last moment we introduced it because we were threatened twice by the European Commission that we would be subject to serious fines for slowing down with it. However, this system is currently working excellently, this system of ISUN manages about 30 billion. BGN, this system is connected to the SPC system. Do you know what the ISAC system is? [[Whimpering laughs]] Yeah, I'm asking you. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] So, we're moving on. These are very complex systems that have worked with each other, they are modern, they are one of the electronic management systems of the government introduced very successfully. The electronic management system consists, honourable Members, and you all know very well, except for Mr. Donchev that they have subsystems. The system of e-government in healthcare cannot be applied for example in the field of religious governance. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] You can't! These are different things. We can't think like that. I think it is very important for the government to continue working, there are excellent specialists in the field of e-government. It's already introduced a lot of these systems. We criticize them, we don't like them, for example in Customs, there are such management systems in the NRA, naturally. They want a lot of money, Mr. Danchev, they want billions! Not millions, billions want to make these things happen. I want to finish with the last thing that will appeal to the opposition very much. [[(Noise, lines and shouts:]] It's that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u53	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u54	The only way to deal successfully with corruption is to all, as quickly as possible, work for this as legislators here, call for relevant portfolio ministers who are responsible for the relevant subsystems, and ask them serious questions about why the social security system has not yet been introduced, for example, into the electronic governance system? We have to do our job. Why? Because that's the key to fighting corruption! Corruption disappears instantly where electronic controls are in place. [[Voices: "Eeeee" by "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] And I'll tell you, at the last meeting of KOSAC now, of course you don't know what KOSAC is, but... [[Noise, lines and laughter from the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u55	Please, Mr. Petrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u56	At the last meeting of KOSAC...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u57	You're running out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u58	... Germany said we were standing between seven and ten years behind Estonia in e-government. Thank you. [[Loud applause and cheering: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov, for the fascinating lecture. Mr. Simov for the first line, please come in. Mr. Kirilov for two. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Ermenkov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u60	Mr. Petrov, not that I have anything to replicate you. I'm taking this line to give you a chance to continue your statements. The show must go on! [[Loud noise and lines, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable colleague Mr. Petrov! It didn't make sense to me what the two governments had achieved, what was dominated by the NDSV, and what was the so-called Triple Coalition? What exactly did they do in electronic control? How much money did they get, what result did they leave? What legislation did they make? It became clear what super computers in a few months are acquired, only to touch this opportunity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line? Mr. Ermenkov gave up. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. There will be no duplicate, unfortunately for Mr. Simov. [[Noise and lines, chanting by the MP Dimitar Danchev: "Eee, will there be no duplicate? "]] First, a personal explanation, Mr. Danchev, and then in the manner of conduct. Please, you had a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] There's not gonna be a duvet. [[Voices: "Eeeee" by "BPS" for Bulgaria.]] Here's a personal explanation and then a way to conduct yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u64	Because with this cheerful statement that was made, my name was mentioned five, six times...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u65	But well-meaning, I think it was, Mr. Danchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u66	...in a bunch of words that didn't have any meaning in common, and meaning, like the projects we're talking about. But actually, colleagues, the main criticisms that have been made here, is why do we want this committee? And my question is, why don't you want this committee? What are we hiding, what are we gonna hide if we don't do this committee? What do you want to hide the wasted money for unnecessary projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u67	The personal explanation, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u68	Yes, a personal explanation. Yes, the personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u69	What has Mr. Petrov done to offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u70	From this tribune we've just heard that no one knows for what, how much money and when were they spent? Well, that's what we want to find out how much money, when and for what? It just became clear here that... [[Noise and lines from AG of GERB: "This is not a personal explanation. "]] It became clear that the ministers had worked several weeks to give us answers and finally [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u71	The personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u72	...in fact, they were a little overdoing their answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u73	How did you feel affected by Mr. Petrov's statement? That's the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u74	The statement was that what we were proposing was stupid and pointless! I'm explaining the point of what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u75	I think Mr. Petrov wasn't so rude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u76	Colleagues, let's do this committee to show that the money has been spent meaningfully, if you're not worried that there is no corruption, that there are no projects that have not been resized, that everything has been fine, as they have tried here to tell us. We from BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u77	No, not you, you personally how offended you are. How are you personally offended by Mr. Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u78	I personally am offended because this attitude with neglecting the problem that colleagues show is really not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u79	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. I think there's a very meaningful debate going on right now. Here you go, Mr. Angelov. Then Mr. Svilensky. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] He also has a way of keeping. You then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u80	Madam President, during Mr. Petrov's speech, there was a disrespect, a call, a break, and you had to intervene and put in some order, because such an attitude to behave like circuses, to shout and to grin, is simply unacceptable when a Member of the National Assembly speaks. Get into your duties and make remarks to all those who violate in any way those who speak here from this stand!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u82	Even more so, Mr. Simov took the liberty of making a line that wasn't a line, and you didn't comment on it! Mr. Karadaye came by and was also provocative to the speaker twice, and you didn't comment either.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u83	Mr. Angelov, I didn't see any provocation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u84	You didn't see it, but it was seen by everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u85	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u86	Madam President, in your part of not making a remark to the fellow Members who applauded the speaker, he himself gathered applause here. So I guess he was happy with those applauses and didn't feel offended. Madam President, this is indeed a very serious debate. It's about a lot of money that's been spent so far, and a lot of millions that are about to be spent. I ask you to bring the debate into the topic, Mr. Donchev to take the attitude, because with such speeches as Mr. Petrov's tonight "Lords of the air" will be fully filled with the National Assembly and there will be no need for colleagues from the other media to reflect at all the seriousness of our debate. Please put in the remaining minutes the debate on the subject. Mr. Donchev should take an attitude so that we can hear, after all, what the government wants to do with the electronic government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Petrov made a flashback in his speech, and I think I didn't need to stop him the way he was speaking. Any other speeches, colleagues? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Donchev knows he can take the word at any time. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I take the floor to say that we will support the proposal for a decision of BSP colleagues Mr. Svilenski and Mr. Danchev not because we are opposition, but because the issue is important. Mistakes may have been made through all these governments so far, but somewhere in those governments that have been mentioned, the beginning of electronic governance has been set. It has to evolve to reach and catch up. Yes, they set an example with Estonia, I will not quote indicators in terms of electronic governance and how we use all these opportunities, but we are very much behind, both in Europe and in the world. It is therefore important that we take this more seriously and get out of populism. Mr. Donchev, when you take the floor after this, I ask you to tell me where the ruling majority has this data, that it needs more billions, and if so, how much, and what should we achieve with them? The other colleague, who said it wasn't 200 million figures that the ministers showed but 120-130 million, did you provide this data? And how exactly are they combined in this way to get to that 120 million, not 200? Just one example, if you will allow me to give you to understand what chaos in electronic governance means, because we are talking about a single information point in all sectors. Firstly, in order to reform these sectors, we must implement this electronic governance. You have our support to do so. Here I am going outside the framework of the political talking.. a single information point which we are talking about having the DMV, the NRA and the other institutions. About two weeks ago a citizen alerted me that he stopped the policemen his car, which was driven by his son, produced an act, within the week he went to pay the bill, no other violations the man went to the DMV and there stopped his car from moving, took his license and all these violations because there were seven acts of violation of the Road Traffic Act, which he didn't have a car. It turns out that this man was the manager of a state-owned company until 2010, and he was sent with the acts and he was subject to sanctions until 2018, so that e-government, so-called uniform information points, they are our obligation to do so. That is why we will support this proposal, because what colleagues from GERB actually offer we do not mind, but this has the right to do so every single MP according to the powers he has to ask you to give this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. [[Applause from the group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any lines to Mr. Letifov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Donchev, I understand the tactics. The idea is to run out of time, in the end you will speak from the height of your post and knowledge and explain how this Parliament does not understand anything and you will introduce the e-government. I would like to tell you that your number will not pass because in this approach, if you are unwilling to enter into a real debate with the Bulgarian Parliament in two weeks we will call you back and we will play this way until you enter into a real debate with the National Assembly on these topics. To say that today we are having a discussion perhaps in the most analog Parliament in the European Union and, ironically, Bulgaria as President of the Council of the European Union has on one of its priorities the digital market, competitiveness based on the development of the digital market. We are the country that broadcasts the commissioner who is responsible for the digital economy and digital society, given that we are in line throughout the whole circle of problems related to this topic. I will only say a few data because I think that this is important, there are many of them, everyone is talking about a drastic slowdown of Bulgaria on these topics. For example, people who use the Internet to send forms to the public administration in Bulgaria are 7% and decrease in recent years. In the European Union there are 30% and are increasing. The percentage of citizens using the Internet to receive information from the public administration in Bulgaria is 15% and is decreasing and this trend is also very interesting, in the European Union there are over 40% and are increasing. I would like to return the debate on the substance of the problems that we are trying to comment on today, namely a few key issues that interfere with the system and which this government, and specifically Mr Donchev, do not find it necessary either to comment on them or to propose concrete measures or to share here with the Bulgarian Parliament. The electronic management has become a convenient platform for draining funds to supply various companies with projects and projects often with the beautiful clarification of pilot projects and as a result they do not develop as full strategic projects, there is no assessment of effectiveness, but systems are being created that do not communicate with each other, do not talk to each other, and that is the idea. Secondly, there are no services in practice that are electronic from the beginning to the end, which actually makes sense of the partial measures for which millions flow and people are not encouraged to use them. People do not believe in electronic services and their trust does not increase because administration, administrative practices do not encourage them. There's no politics in that direction. Access to electronic services via mobile platforms is particularly dramatically lagging behind compared to the European Union. There are no measures to encourage citizens to use e-services, neither campaigns, nor training, nothing. There is no training for using electronic services, including from a school where this should be happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u91	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u92	I would like to say that what we expect is not this helplessness, which sounds from the speeches of both colleagues from GERB and from the previous of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. We want more concrete, more ambition, clear horizontal measures, smart solutions and, above all, stopping waste. I therefore urge you to support our decision! Let's see how together we can make Bulgaria in this regard enter the 21st century at last. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Any lines to Mr. Vigenin's statement? I can't see. Colleagues, our guests are the students from the 144th High School of National Enlighteners, Sofia. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u94	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Members! The BSP's multi-titre thesis is that the money for e-government is spent and spent out of control, but they have not proposed or introduced a single step for the changes of this and in any of their previous governments. Their proposals are only exhausted until another check back in time, instead of taking real control measures, publicity and real effect of the costs incurred. The current Law on Electronic Governance is amended, in which the latest changes by the previous government of GERB are laid down the principles of transparency, publicity and consistency, especially in the financing of electronic management and information and communication technologies. The amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance adopted by the Forty- Third National Assembly introduce project and budgetary control to approve and monitor the spending of public funds for electronic governance. In this way we will know how much is planned and how much has been spent over the years and we will not allow populist speeches with fictional numbers and numbers and unreliable information. In this regard, keep in mind that the recently published data and analyses in the media that the total amount spent on e-government is BGN 2 billion on average, which makes 150 million on average. lv. Annual national and European funding shall not rest on any facts and shall not comply with objective truth. First, from 2007 to 2015 under the Operational Programme of the Administrative Capacity (Administrative Capacity) which was the main source of funding for e-government projects in the state administration was spent in total for all nine years around 100 million. lv. Secondly, the introduction of control over the costs of e-government, these costs could not be separated from the other current and capital costs of the administration, so there was no way to calculate them. The current expenditure shall include all costs for the maintenance of the relevant administrations, including current repairs not only for information systems and electronic services. In many cases, costs incurred for the supply of information and communication technologies intended for office services or purely intra-administrative activities are considered as costs for electronic management, which is absolutely wrong. It does not correspond to the reality and the widely drawn claim that Estonia has spent 50 million. lv. or euro for electronic management for the last 15 years. Estonia spends approximately 1% of its annual national e-government budget, amounting to 60 million. Euros. Let us not forget the need for funds for regular replacement of computers in the administration, for licensed software, for maintenance of already developed systems.............................................................................................................. At an average rate of substitution of four years on computers and periphery, this means 35 thousand PCs the state spends 30 million. lv. only for their replacement and this is without taking into account maintenance costs, license, software and other periphery, which once again indicates the bankruptcy of the claims of huge costs for electronic management. The difference with before is that for the first time the government has introduced full transparency reporting for all planned and implemented e-government projects and expenditures, as well as full budgetary control of the costs of electronic management in Budget 2018. If colleagues want to get acquainted with this, I will only ask them to do so. 58, Annex No 9 to the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky, please! The colleagues from GERB have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u96	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable e-government specialists! I will not support your proposal for a decision because it is based on misunderstanding and I guess because I am well-intentioned to you that you will accidentally block the whole process. You'll try to reach into the contact again and see what happens. Well, you'll get electrocuted. [[Noise and lines.]] If we accept... I know why you want a committee of inquiry to talk about the great crimes of e-government and e-government, but the e-government, to inform you, there is no prime minister, so there will be no one there to attack. Quickly let me tell you the stages. It's not true that nothing has been done. On the contrary, many things have been done. Since 2002, this process has been developing, of course, at the beginning is slower because the new technologies were more difficult to absorb, but since 2010 there has been an e-government strategy adopted by Borisov's first government. Unfortunately, during Oresharski's time, this strategy was delayed. I don't blame him, and I don't say anything, but it's a fact that everyone confirms it. In 2014, the entire legal base was built on which e-government would take place, including radical amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance, there was the establishment of an e-government agency to centralise this process. In the current parliament, only 66 laws have been passed for dropping the criminal record! Over 100 laws we have done in connection with e-government. And at this point you want to make a plan?! You know how funny that is! We have a strategy, what plan do we make?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's make a plan and set up a committee of inquiry for a month to talk about some hypothetical 2 billion that has been spent. Two billion hasn't been spent. It's 200 million. I will also call you: separate the electronic control from the computers. [[Noise and lines.]] Electronic control is not computers, it's not buying computers, it's quite other processes. In three years, 200 million has been spent, and that's not enough money. It's not enough! One percent of Estonia's budget, as the colleague said, goes only for the maintenance of e-government in Estonia. Only for maintenance! And we're building it right now. You will see the result only up to 3-4 months....................................................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. The time of BSP and GERB is over. Are there any speeches from other colleagues who have time? I can't see. Mr. Donchev, come in. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There was not a single call to answer specific questions during the debate. I didn't take this opportunity because of the only specific question I got, the answer is: 2700. I didn't think that's why I needed to go out on the stand. Two thousand seven hundred profiles is the answer to the only specific question I have received. Thank you. Allow me a purely collegiate recommendation, honourable Members. We all read the papers, it's an important part, if you will, from a professional way of informing ourselves what's going on. It's okay, it's not reproaching. Of course, there are shades of who reads what newspapers, but in this case my recommendation is besides newspapers, to read documents. The topic we discussed gives an extremely convenient opportunity to use directly documentary information from the network. You visit eufunds@bg, there are two main sections: ISUN and ISUN 2020, and read, as long as someone is read to them at project level, at indicators level, at contractor level, at funding level, at sustainability level, at financial correction level, at implementation level. In this way, a large part of the questions that were circulating in this Chamber and to which you were trying to answer yourself would have found a specific quantitatively qualified answer. Otherwise, I admit, it was difficult for me to understand the view of my fellow Members on the left to initiate this debate. It is certainly proved that if you are looking for something that is not there, you will find nothing.. I am talking about the reproach in organized abuse and distractions. It's a similar effect if you insist on something that has long been known to occur. I'm talking about a clear plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a road map - step by step, funding, deadlines, dates. What clear plan?! There couldn't be a clearer plan than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u99	Your people said there was no plan! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u100	At the same time, I am absolutely sincere. I must thank you for this debate. It still gives more people a chance in this room and beyond to find out what it's about. This focuses energy and I am convinced that however emotional the debate may sometimes be, this is one of the steps we need to walk towards consensus. What happened? First, in order to have electronic control, it cannot happen without vision, without designing the overall architecture of the system, so that every investment, no matter what it is in hardware, in software, any investment in an integration system goes to its place, to build the overall structure. Historically, one of the problems we have is that every administration has given to the municipality, given to an agency, given to the ministry, made its own electronic service package without thinking whether they can be integrated with the services of the other office. I am pleased that, especially on the basis of the ex ante control carried out by the State Agency for Electronic Governance, this is already a fact, there can no longer be a cost which, in perspective, cannot be put together with other systems, not just from an economic point of view, but from a purely technological point of view. This, in my opinion, is one of the great guarantees that from now on, things are happening plan-wise. I hope it has become clear that electronic control does not have much in common or at least cannot be reduced to buying computers and printers. In fact, the thought that electronic control is reduced to buying hardware is as wrong as the belief that a color photograph might, for example, touch Mount Vihren or something else. There's no difference. For the first time, we have a clear institutional platform. I'm talking about DAEW, I'm not talking about government representation. I hope whatever happens in the next decade, this model doesn't change. I would especially like to thank all MPs, because everything we are doing right now is based on a very clear legal foundation. It was only marked for the criminal record of how many laws have been changed. And here, I absolutely sincerely want to thank you for the absolutely unanimous support that these proposals have received. Yes, it is undoubtedly appropriate that all costs of the state, including those of electronic management, be better controlled. In addition, we should not live with the illusion that e-government is something very cheap. Oh yes, its implementation, its implementation leads to savings in times greater than the price invested in the development of the system. Several Members have mentioned that Estonia is separating 1% of its e-government budget. By the way, Estonia is a much smaller country and this is much more than we spend. She's far from the record guy. One UK, one Sweden allocates 1.4.. 1,5% of their budgets for e-government. In my opinion, both conversations should be going: how to spend better, with better control; at the same time, the harsh truth is that an overall comprehensive system cannot happen without more money. I hope there's something else that's made sense. Electronic governance cannot happen naturally, by itself, inasmuch as administrative reform cannot be left to the administration. Dear MPs, the counter is power! Standing at a counter is power. And here is our job, the politicians. The administration cannot reform itself. Both at the level of electronic systems, and at the level of legislative coercion, and at the level of operational management of individual departments, we must take the power of the one standing at the counter. When everything happens in an electronic environment, there's no subjectivism, there's complete traceability of who did what and who didn't do what. The most important conclusion is: there is no way to make electronic government with analog politicians. Of course, there is a need for will, an organization is needed, but a vision is also needed. The digital world is not a digital copy of analog. It's like the same movies, only HD. Well, we've seen this movie before. It has been mentioned once or twice that electronic control is not the creation of an electronic copy of the processes that are now running on paper. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right, we won't have another chance to reorganize the services, redesign, as they say in a professional jargon better than electronization. Naturally, we will not be completely honest unless we mention another challenge, which is at least as important as good control. Mr. Vigenin mentioned several times the intensity of using different services. The data you quoted was accurate. In addition, the data for services provided by private operators are similar: insurers, banks and so on. We have a common task to create the consumer's confidence that, when using a service electronically, it is not only cheaper for him and the state, but it is more transparent and more traceable. I think this is our joint task. This, I think, is a sphere in which we will find consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let us make the necessary efforts to use the paper only for fine art. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the draft decisions in the order of entry, reading them again. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Dimitar Danchev's draft decision and a group of MPs. Project! DECISION In connection with the debates on questions No 754-05-56 of 22 November 2017 by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Creates a temporary parliamentary committee to make a full review of the spent funds for e-government in Bulgaria and a comprehensive analysis of the reasons that led to mass waste, indicating the responsible persons and bodies. The Commission shall be composed of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two from each Parliamentary Group, with a duration of 28 February 2018. 2. By 28 February 2018, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Tomislav Donchev will prepare a detailed plan for the construction of e-government. The plan shall indicate types of systems and activities for their implementation for all administrations at central, regional and municipal level. To give time forecast for the digitalization of administrative services in a really usable form, to give a full scheme for financing the e-government activities, including activities by municipal administrations. Importers: Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: 80, against 95, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION In connection with the debates on questions No 754-05-56 of 22 November 2017 by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on e-government policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It obliges Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev by 31 March 2018 to present to the National Assembly a report on the current state of the developed horizontal components of e-government and ways for their accelerated deployment in a wide range of administrations. 2. Instructs Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to submit to the National Assembly the annual status report and an annual plan for the development and renewal of information resources in the administration and resources of the single electronic communication network of the state administration and for the needs of national security after adoption by the Council of Ministers. Importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. They voted 177 MPs: for 104, against 49, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a negative vote. Second negative vote Mr. Bojankov, Mr. Svilenski for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u102	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negatively on this decision for three main reasons. The first reason is that in this decision you obliged the Deputy Prime Minister to do his job. In fact, it is your decision that he must do by obligation, you have now decided it with some solution that makes the whole debate meaningless. [[Big part of the MPs from GERB and the United Patriarchs are leaving the Chamber.]] The second reason why I voted against is that this solution is an emancipation of your attitude to the problem that we raised because in all your statements you have not stopped to assess and take into account the mistakes that have been made during your management. You were trying to pass the blame somewhere in the past, somewhere in the precinct of the Triple Coalition. There was no time control anywhere in our decision. We wanted to see the whole process what it was, including let the three coalitions have made mistakes. But you didn't, you were scared, you decided not to accept our decision, and you decided to do something about it. And the third reason why I voted against is that, in this way, with this attitude and with similar decisions, you have launched an idea that must be extremely important, which must be at the heart of our care for those who have chosen us e-government, which is both the basis for combating corruption and in the service of citizens. In fact, it was also your role today to reduce and find a way in which this electronic government does not happen so that there is no fight against corruption. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Bojankov, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u104	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, or at least those of you who have remained! I voted against it because during this debate it became clear that no one has an accurate idea of what an investee is. But what we have an accurate idea of and what is said very little is what the effect of what is an investee is. Yes, there are countries, as has been mentioned, such as Britain and Estonia, which invest a higher percentage, but what is the result? In Estonia the offered e-services from the administration are 100%. In Britain, a person can arrange his relations with the city in the field of garbage, and when he has filed a complaint with the police and whatever you think, without visiting any institution. This is important: what is the effect. And what is the effect in Bulgaria of the invested funds, unknown in what size?! The effect is as follows: the administration in 2010 was 135 thousand people, currently is 132 thousand people, with a declining population in the country. In the countries where Minister Donchev quoted and colleagues quoted, the number of administration has decreased dramatically. That is exactly what we are investing some money in e-government, but we are saving it by reducing the administration. In Bulgaria the number of administrative structures in the local and central authorities is increased. What does that tell us? That the effectiveness of the invested funds, whatever they are, is too low. From there this debate was so important and this was supposed to be heard here, and I regret that Mr. Donchev did not stay until the end. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Third negative vote you have the floor, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to express, in the negative vote, my disappointment with the majority's attitude towards the importance of the issue at issue. Here, we see that the person who was referring to the government, who had to defend the thesis to the end, is gone. The MPs of the majority left the Chamber relieved by the fact that the vote was over. The issue is purely political, and we need to be aware of what will follow. Mr. Petrov developed a brilliant thesis that with the introduction of e-government corruption instantly, I quote it, disappears and everything will be fine. In that case, what did you push us so hard to adopt the Law on Countering Corruption and to make an anti-corruption unit, provided that they would not be needed immediately after the introduction of electronic governance?! That's not what I'm saying. Dear Mr. Chairman, please pass it on to whoever said it. We once again in the hall were threatened by Mr. Bikov, and very rudely, precisely and clearly that we will be electrocuted. How long are you gonna threaten us? The power's killing me. You know, the electric current kills, especially if it's a lot of pressure. I'm not gonna qualify him as a threat to murder, but in response, I'm gonna say that whoever's threatening to electrocute them should be careful not to get sucked into it. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u107	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Colleagues, we're continuing with parliamentary control. I'm announcing the written answers. Written response from: - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova-Hristova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Diana Savateva; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Dimitar Georgiev. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, on the policy regarding birth rates in the country. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for an exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! There is no more worrying topic than demographics in Bulgaria, so it is normal for the first question for this year, which I refer to you as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy to be on this topic. I will not outline the overall apocalyptic picture of the demographic crisis in Bulgaria, not for any other reason, but for the fact that all in Bulgaria and throughout the European Union are aware that in Bulgaria the European Union and perhaps the world are the worst demographic indicators. Bulgaria is wiped out and the government treats the problem with carelessness. I will just mention that in 45 years of socialism from six million people we have become nearly nine million, and in less than 30 years with the so-called "democracy" from nine million we have dropped to seven million, that is, we have lost more than 20% of the population and without serious natural causes. And so at the end of 2016, according to data from the Statistical Institute, we are 7 million. 101,000. 859 Bulgarians, and experts say we are even less about 6 million 700 thousand. And if the reduction of the Bulgarians at the beginning of the transition was mainly due to a very negative migration balance, in the last ten years it is definitely due to the negative values in its natural growth, that is, many more Bulgarians die than they are born. That's what experts call depopulation. Bulgaria is among the countries in the world with the lowest birth rate. According to data from the Statistical Institute, the number of live births in 2015 was 65 950, or the birth rate was 9.2. In 2016 we almost scored historical anti-cord for at least born children during the year, since statistics on this indicator in Bulgaria. The lively children this year are 64 984, that is, we are slightly over 1997, which holds first place in the negative ranking for at least born And if someone who isn't familiar with these negative processes has said, "Well, we almost hit the bottom, now up!" Another proof of this is the data from the Register of Births of the Health Ministry for 2017, according to which a sad record of low birth rates was set. Only 56 436 babies were born in the country by 4578 less compared to 2016, and by 7564 less compared to the crisis 1997. That is to say, historical anti-record we have at birth rate and it is marked, but it is unlikely that anyone is happy, it seems no one scares, which is worse. I can go on like this, but I'm done. My question to you is: what is the policy of the government? What measures in the short and long term does it plan to solve the problem of low birth rates in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The point of questions and answers is to bring out information that, for God's sake, should be heard carefully, and God forbid something to be remembered by it. At the last question, as I recall, I have explained to you very thoroughly the demographic trends of years and decades. Then I told you something, you're repeating now. You're painting a pink picture of socialism again. The negative trend began in 1981. I gave you data that for a decade somewhere around 2.2.1% had a decline in population growth. In other words, ever since then, everything has been moving at the same uniform rates. At 10 years of age, times 2.1, times 2.3%. This is it. You do not claim to me that during socialism the population has increased, now almost as a result of the management of the "United Patriarchs" and GERB the population has collapsed. Specifically now on the written issue. Undoubtedly, there is no more worrying topic than demographics in Bulgaria. There is no doubt that we are witnessing a continuing... [[The People's Representative Cornelia Ninova enters the Chamber.]] Good afternoon, Mrs. Ninova. [[Reply of Cornelia Ninova.]] Excuse me. ...the continuing decline in population and its ageing. The data you quoted on the birth rate of the country in 2016 and 2017 are, however, based on current data supported by the Ministry of Health. The birth register and the ones you export for 1997 are from the National Statistical Institute at the time. There are some differences and incompletes. In this case, the data of the Ministry of Health is not complete as they are submitted for those born in 2017. We will have them in April this year. There is also another methodology for registering at the Grand Office. In other words, the Ministry of Health and the National Statistical Institute count differently. According to your data from healthcare in 2016, 61,014 children were born and the relevant final number according to NSI is 65,446 children. By the way, perhaps the most true is the information we can get from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that only in the first 11 months of 2017 was paid one-off childbirth assistance for 60 759 children. I think that's the most accurate number since money is given to a born child. The measures of the government in support of birth rates have a complex and wide-ranging nature. Part of the short-term measures are related to the granting of current funds for maintaining realistic birth rates in Bulgaria, according to the available data, currently available as of 30 November 2017, the funds allocated in the new year are as follows: under the Family Aid Act for Children, the following types of aid for families with children are provided: one-off pregnancy aid for 2017 was set at 150 BGN, by 30 November with single help in pregnancy were aided by 11 268 pregnant women, while funds of 1 million were paid. 687 thousand. BGN 275. The second group of aids are the one-off aid for the birth of a child, the amounts of the aid set out in the State Budget Act for 2017 are: for the first child - BGN 250, BGN 600, BGN 300, BGN 300, BGN 200 and each subsequent.; the amounts paid on 30 November 2017 amounted to 23 million. 701 thousand. BGN 292. For 60,759 born children. The amount of the aid is BGN 1200, up to 30 November 2 million were paid to raise twins. 218 thousand. £950. for 1876 children.. twins. The next group of one-off aids is for looking at a child by a mother-in-law, a student who is in regular form of education. The amount for the aid for 2017 is 2880 BGN, and after a change in the regulations it is paid in two instalments.. 1440 BGN, twice. Last year's data are as of November 30th, because we still have no closure of the year................................................................................................................ 331 thousand. BGN 415. for 435 cases, first payment and 420 cases for second payment. The following are one-off aids for students enrolled in the first grade. The amount for last year is BGN 250, paid by 30 November is 9 million. Five hundred and BGN 912. For 38,486 children. Monthly support for raising a child up to one year. The aid is 100 BGN, the amount paid is 14 million. 769 thousand. BGN 613. [[Reply.]] It's so small, so much so. Monthly support to raise a child with permanent disabilities for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 November 2017 for 26 268 children was paid 147 million. 405 thousand. BGN 327. You see, here the amounts are in times greater than the previous aid. In other words, many children with disabilities are born in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Wow, I'm in the middle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u111	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u112	Under the Employment Promotion Act, the following measures are implemented to create appropriate conditions: encouraging employers to open jobs for single mothers and adoptive parents of children up to five years old. I will mention them only because that is your question about the brands. During the accounting year the subsidised wage of persons with higher education employed in positions requiring completed degree of higher education amounts to 380 BGN, for the rest is 300 BGN. In 2017 funds were spent from the state budget of 387 thousand. BGN 518. There could be a lasting result after introducing measures specifically focused on raising birth rates and achieving at least zero natural growth. From now on, there are measures that I remember very well that I gave you when you answered the previous question. They are linked to increasing aid for children, one-off, larger amounts, with providing low-interest loans for the purchase of housing and so on. These measures, I remember very well, I detailed them in the answer to the previous question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u113	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for answering that question. As you can see, it makes sense to ask that question. It is due to the fact that it has become a tradition every year to start with the news of a new record of low birth rates. We don't have a hit on the negative records. The truth is that Bulgaria is dying and this does not even happen slowly. We're probably gonna beat last year's record this year. When you answered my question, for example, I am very surprised how for the same thing for a number of lively children, in Bulgaria we have three sources that do not give the same data, differ. Fix this. It's your chance to do it. Soon there was a debate on this government's overall policy on the demographic crisis. Then you replied to me that in the longer term, next year and a half you will focus on solving a few questions. First of all, notice, this is an increase in birth rate in order to achieve at least zero natural growth, and that a measure is in place to facilitate assisted reproduction. You also mentioned that they are to be submitted for adoption by the National Council on Demographic Policy six measures, three of which are related to birth rates. Due to the lack of time, I will mention them very briefly: granting special one-time financial assistance at the birth of a third child, granting special monthly financial assistance to a third child, providing low-interest and interest-free housing loans to young families. The other measures concern more immigration and migration policy. Mr. Minister, my two supplementary questions are: which of these measures have you submitted to the National Council on Demographic Policy to the Council of Ministers? If you haven't brought them in, when are you waiting? You see what happens to birth rates. You have to stop this headstrong trend. Do you think that these measures are enough for those you may have imported and those you have listed (many measures, but results little) to end the negative trend? Quoting: Achieve at least zero natural growth. Do you have a bet, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that at the end of your term of office, if you, of course, get it to the end, there will be a rise in birth rates of at least a percent and a half of two?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u115	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u116	Mr. Gokov, the questions you asked me, it's a little hard for me to answer, I won't hide, for the simple reason that this is a continuous activity. It is linked once to financial opportunities. A second time is also related to certain preparatory regulatory activities. In the period from the answer to your previous question so far, I don't think you have a logical reason to ask me the question in this way. I think so. Otherwise, I welcome your empathy for the severe problem of demography. In your face, I see a supporter and a person who really cares about this, and who, I'm sure, fully understands that the basis for raising birth rates is not just economic issues with aid. Here the issue is much larger, more comprehensive. It also has to do with public attitudes. Whether they're pessimistic or optimistic. I remember very well that it was also highlighted in the speech of your partner Dora Yankova. I address you as a supporter, a partner in this regard, and I am sure that you understand that in order for all these measures to take place, the country needs political stability. Thank you for voting against the vote of distrust tomorrow, just to implement the demographic program. Thank you. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u117	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Gokov, attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers and MPs! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will now, within these two minutes in which I must express my attitude to your response, make a small statistic that you will not like at all and will not involve socialism. I've started since 2003. Prime Minister Saxe-Coburg: 2002 I don't know which one is from the three sources. At the end of the mandate, 2005 - 71 075 children or with 4576 children more, 4.25% growth. 2006 Prime Minister Stanishev. As early as the first year 73,978 children, at the end of the term of office 2009. " 80 956 children, 6978 more " 9.43% growth. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Prime Minister Borisov 1. The At the end of the mandate, 2013 - 66 578 children, 8935 less - 13.42% drop. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from For 2014 supposed to be 67 585 children, or 1007 children more than 2013, growth of 1.51. A little, but a little size. And now attention, 2015 Prime Minister Borisov, cabinet Borisov 2 and 3. In cabinet Borisov 3 Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Demographic Policy is Valeri Simeonov. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - 69 950 children; 2017 - 56 436 children, or 9 540 children less, 16.86 percent decline. You're probably asking yourself why I'm telling you these statistics right now. Firstly, because if we look at birth rates over the years, we will see that it increases not when social benefits and incentives increase, but when there is an expectation of economic and social stability. Secondly, according to the number of children in a single government, we judge the credibility of this government and the extent to which it has been successful. With this, the public gives an assessment of the management whether it is successful or not. Despite statistics, I have a lot to say about this, as you do, because it is extremely serious, although I have taken the liberty of quoting a little populist statistic, but I would like to point out to you that the problem is quite serious and we need to take action on this and not just talk. I offer you a bet on this issue: Will there be an increase at the end of the term? I did it very sincerely to activate you in the direction of action to increase the birth rate in the country, because we are leaving as a nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You asked medical questions that we should be looking for an answer to. Welcome to the Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, on January 15th the Ministry of Education and Science announced on its official page that the new curricula for the X class have already been established. Of course, the change of curriculum and programs was dictated by the introduction of the new Preschool and School Education Act. Of course, the meaning of education reform should mainly be the change of exactly the curriculum and programmes. How, though, was this done? With the validation of each new curriculum, it was becoming increasingly clear that everything that the Bulgarian school expected, such as: lightening of the educational content; taking into account the age characteristics of children and students; logical links between the studied in different disciplines and so on never happened. On the contrary, they removed or returned to the programs some or other Bulgarian poets and writers were missed whole eras of native history, geography or divisions of biology. The study material in VΙΙΙ, ΙX and X class is highly compressed because of the absence of these objects in XΙ and XΙΙΙ. Following the validation of the new history curriculum for the X class, it became very clear and another. In fact, the main purpose of the change is not the one that expected the education system, but a completely different politicalization and new ideology of education. In its communication on the new programmes, the ministry said that in the review of the latest history, I quote: It seems that in our education ministry it does not occur to them that the selection of facts is already an assessment and can also be ideologically charged. As a result of the program, even for a non-professional, the ideological approach is immediately visible when presenting the historical events and facts from the Liberation of Bulgaria to World War II, compared with the period from the end of the war to 1989, called by the members of the program the Communist regime. Particularly cynical is the absence, according to the same program, of fascism in Bulgaria, of anti-Jewish legislation and pro-Nazi nature of government, but it is explicitly stated that the student should be able to, quote: to appreciate the importance of the actions for the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews during the Second World War. Saving from what, when anti-Jewish laws are gone? There is no accession to the Hitler Reich, there is no Law for the protection of the nation, there is no resistance, there is no occupation of Macedonia and Thrace, there are no guerrillas, there are no 12,000 killed flocks, the hawk children, there is no one fighting against whom, there is no victory of the Red Army over Nazis. Until now, the X class has studied at least the Nazism and the theory of the pure race. They will no longer be studied. Well, there's no other country that's come to be ashamed of the resistance against Hitler. Apparently, for the programme makers and, respectively, for the ministry's experts, it is controversial that there was fascism. Today it seems that no one remembers that the projects for the new programmes in question appeared as early as 2013 at the very end of the administration of the minister of service Nikolai Miloshev, were announced, caused a scandal in society, were withdrawn, and after the strong adoption of the new law in the National Assembly in October 2015 began to revive a class after class. Some would say: why didn't they cause disputes and debate in September last year? The answer is: because there were no texts that appeared now with their validation. We ask the Minister of Education: who suggested the change in the history curriculum for X class in the version presented for public discussion in September 2017, what are the reasons for this proposal? Who are these crowns of historical thought, who are these indisputable authorities in the field of history, whose names would be logical, right, to be publicly known to the Bulgarians and who represent the socialist period in the development of our country as more horrified than the Ottoman rule? Who thought these were the scientists who would prejudge our children's knowledge of history? If our minister is struggling with the answer, we can help. They appeared in the public domain and said: "This battle has been going on for five years now. In this mission was the support of the Vice-President of GERB Tsvetan Tsvetanov, the MEP Andrey Kovachev and the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev. We, as independent experts, have been able to highlight 12 concepts for this period of Sovietization, communism, proletariat dictatorship, People's Court, repression apparatus, camps, gorillas, expropriation, socialist industrialization, forced cooperation, eviction and so on. Where was the professional debate? We talked to historians who are equally distant from all political parties. They're, to say the least, surprised. Surprised by the courage and fury with which they are introduced in the textbooks supposedly proven truths and it is for a period of less than 30 years ago, and today, when there are still documents that are not known, and others that will never see the light of day. Today, when new documents have been coming out since World War II. I quote the words of a history teacher from Plovdiv: "In my humble opinion, although the number of hours has been increased, of which for new knowledge, it is a huge amount of study material containing many facts and concepts. It should be borne in mind that Bulgarian history in previous years has not been studied independently, but is studied in the context of European history. Over-focused on periods: Bulgaria after World War II and Bulgaria after 1989. Although there are a large number of studies on these periods, they have not been studied from the distance of historical time. The program lacks the spirit of education in unity of the Bulgarian people. History should educate in universal human values, patriotism, respect for the family and others, civic position and legality. Those words make us feel ideologically burdened, don't they? There was a lot of professional experience and pain in the fact that what the teachers wanted to see in this program is gone, and it is the most important one in the study of our home history in the direction of the unity of the Bulgarian people. We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria By order of the Minister to set up a commission of undoubtedly recognized authorities in historical science, which proved in the years their impartiality to review the curriculum and propose a new version which equally objectively reflects the historical facts and events of all periods in the development of the Bulgarian state. Dear Members of Parliament, we have already seen the results of the education system when the basic law governing the activities in this area is passed forcefully. Therefore, wise conduct in this case is to take a step back, thinking about the consequences after years. Otherwise, Benjamin Franklin's thought will be valid: Only the lie needs the power support of the state power. The truth endures on its own. " - Thank you. [[(Wurthy applause from BSP for Bulgaria) (Bravo!) Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The next question is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, on prevention against the phenomenon of children giving birth to children. You have the floor, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Simeonov! Demographic policy is a matter of national security. Every year in our country we start with some stressful, worrying information about the low birth rate on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Our nation is melting and the subject is extremely important. He deserves the serious position of each and every one of us. My question concerns only one aspect of it, and this is the phenomenon of children having children. In recent years, we have learned from the media that a sustainable number of children born from underage mothers is maintained, with an average of about three thousand per year in the last few years. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Simeonov, is: what is the official statistics on the number of newborn children in 2017? How many were born of underage mothers? What is their share of the total number of births for the previous year and what prevention measures are there against this phenomenon, I repeat, children are having children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u123	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Halacheva! Official birth data in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, as I said already, will be exported and provided by the National Statistical Institute in April this year. Data will be provided according to different indicators. Live birth children by districts and municipalities and age of the mother; live birth and non-marital children by districts and municipalities and residence; live birth children by districts and municipalities and sex. The Ministry of Health also maintains statistics on births, as I explained in the previous reply, and information on these births must be provided to each hospital with the Auxero-gynecological department. The ministry's data is currently incomplete due to the continuing filling of data from maternity homes. Perhaps the most accurate information will be available to you from the data given by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is related to the payment of one-off childbirth benefits. In the first 11 months of 2017 a single child birth aid was paid for 60 759 children. Currently, the official data on the age of women born from the National Statistical Institute for 2016 and according to them the number of children born to mothers under 18 is 3249, while maintaining the trend of increasing the number of children born to women 40 years of age and older, from 1705 in 2015 to 1947 in 2016. The physical and mental immaturity of mothers, attempts to induce abortion and problems related to childbirth leads to various disorders in the development of children. Early maternity can be a factor for newborns and their underage mothers to be at risk of social exclusion and isolation at risk of abandonment, neglect, abuse due to lack of maturity, skills, knowledge, motivation for good parenting. I'm going through my measurements. At the initiative of the State Agency for Child Protection, a National Programme for the Prevention of Violence and Abuse of Children for the period 2017 - 2020 and an Action Plan for the period 2017 - 2018 to the Programme in question, as well as a Coordination Mechanism for Interaction in Work in cases of children victims of violence or at risk of violence and for interaction in crisis intervention signed by the protection authorities in 2010 to which the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria has joined. It also focuses on the need to develop new mechanisms and promote current mechanisms, including national telephone lines, through which children and adults can signal time to existing problems so as not to come to an act of violence with a view to ensuring accessible means of assistance and support. In 2013, a planned inspection was carried out, in the obstetric and gynecological departments of the country by the employee of the General Directorate of Child Rights. We have data on the age of mothers, but interesting is the information from 2016, when a planned check has also been carried out on compliance with the right of the child in cases of early cohabitations and early births in 30 directorates for social support from small settlements throughout the country, where no such control activity has been carried out by the authorities of the State Agency for Child Protection. In the course of the checks, it was found that the district attorney's office was informed of 396 cases of which in 176 cases a refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings was made. Most often the motive is that the girl is 16 years old, because according to art. 191 of the Penal Code: The existence of marital relations with a female who is 16 years old is not punishable. In 43 cases pre-trial proceedings were initiated, and in four cases the District Prosecutor's Office made a proposal for a discharge. In 25 cases, a penalty has been imposed and in two cases the penalty is effective for a period of six months, and 137 of the signals to the district prosecutors have not been answered in the respective Directorate of Social Assistance. During the control work, a planned inspection was also carried out in 2017, similar in 73 medical practices of general practitioners, and in the course of the same investigation the interaction between the personal doctors of children and the protection authorities was also investigated, with the main emphasis aimed at alerting the need for the protection of minors or children and the inclusion of the personal doctors in the interinstitutional team meetings of the relevant coordination mechanism for violence. The purpose of the verification shall be to collect analysed information with a view to developing policies. Actually, I still can't give you the results for last year. Analyses of the results of the thematic plans carried out are prepared for early cohabitation and early births in the Directorate of Social Assistance and personal doctors, which contain concrete conclusions, proposals, recommendations for improving the relevant interinstitutional cooperation and work on these cases. The results of these checks show that it is necessary to work towards changing the attitudes of the population, and this can be done through preventive social work with parents, through criminal sanctions that I mentioned to you, against minors who live with minors on a marital basis, for those who have not completed 16 years and so on and so forth. In conclusion, the National Program for Child Protection for 2017 is set under Operational Objective 65 "Presiding effective measures to reduce early marriages", Activity 65.1 "Primary Preventions" through community field work and awareness raising. Your community is clear about who she is. Finally 4700 pieces of information materials are distributed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u125	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Halacheva, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u126	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I don't think your answer is specific and I cannot accept it. Yes, it sounds concerned, but I didn't hear anything new about the solution to the problem. Measures are necessary, they are complex and there must be mechanisms, but the children in question must bear in mind that they are children at risk, they live in a vulnerable environment, they and their families need special care. This is where I agree with you. Parents themselves are not personally mature for their role. In my opinion, it is necessary: training to raise young mothers' children, helping them continue their education, finding employment for the adult parent, as well as penal penalties, what you said. I would like to hear: is there an analysis of the adopted measures and action plans to increase responsible parenting? I also draw attention to another particular problem, in my opinion, and these are precisely the bride markets. In Bulgaria there are such markets in Yambol, Stara Zagora, Bachkovo Monastery, village of Mogila. It's where teenage girls turn into goods, and I think from the position you're taking, you need to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u128	Thank you for your position, I take this commitment. Especially for these markets for brides, this is indeed a topic which is largely related to the United Patriarchs Programme and to dealing with crime in this ethnicity, and in this case these markets are actually a form of crime. So, once again, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Petar Vitanov to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, and is on the signing of the Agreement on Permanently Structured Defence Cooperation. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I make a preliminary commitment that in time, after asking the question, I have received documents that actually correspond to a certain extent, but I will be as correct as possible to you and I will ask the question in its original version, and depending on your response I will further develop it. On 13 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 13 November 2017 to 25 November 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 13 November 2017 to 25 November 2017. 23 Member States of the European Union signed an Agreement on the participation in further development of their interaction in the field of defence, the so-called "Constant structured cooperation" or PESCO. The Agreement implies making binding commitments by the Parties and strengthening the Union's capabilities and capabilities to ensure more security for both its citizens and globally. Before accession, each Party shall provide a list of relevant commitments in the field of defence investment, capacity development and operational preparedness. The High Representative shall also be informed of the commitments and ensure that the Party concerned is willing and able to meet the requirements for permanent structured defence cooperation. The agreement outlines the following possible directions: research, development, product creation, joint acquisition of arms and fighting equipment, integration of military units, development of joint capabilities through joint investments and cooperation of defence industry enterprises and so on. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is what are our binding commitments under the PESCO Initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Vitanov! Following the presentation of the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy in June 2016, the idea of creating permanent structured defence cooperation has been resumed in the European Union. Its main objective is to strengthen defence cooperation within the European Union with a view to enhancing its defence capacity and implementing priorities and the level of ambitions resulting from the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy. Protocol 10 to the Treaty on European Union sets out the following criteria for participation in it: synchronization of defence spending, achievement of a certain level of investment costs in defence equipment, taking specific measures to increase combat preparedness, interoperability, flexibility and capacity to deploy forces, a coordinated approach to address capacity shortages. The criterion in terms of defence spending is to reach 2% of gross domestic product, as you know, on NATO summits in Wales, Warsaw and Brussels. Within the framework of the Permanent Structured Cooperation, defence cooperation will deepen and opportunities will be created for joint building of high-tech defence capabilities, including through certification by the European Defence Fund, which will lead to faster military progress for countries part of it. Their defence industries and development organisations will actively participate in the process of developing and producing new capabilities that they are then expected to acquire. Thus, the funds invested in projects must remain in the defence industry of the European Union by increasing competitiveness and creating the jobs necessary for its operation. On 24 October last year, the Council of Ministers decided Bulgaria to participate in a joint Notification for the establishment of the Permanent Structured Cooperation. On 13 November 2017, during the Foreign Affairs and Defence Council, the Notification was signed by 23 Member States of the European Union and subsequently by two others. The National Plan for Permanent Structural Cooperation prepared by the Ministry of Defence is part of the National Plan for the achievement of defence spending 2% of the gross domestic product, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers at the first meeting of this year. I would like to stress that although this plan was developed in its main part in the Ministry of Defence, it is not a government plan, but is national and is necessary for its implementation by other ministries, as well as by the Ministry of Finance, in terms of defence expenditure, the Ministry of Economy in the part concerning the defence industry, as well as the Ministry of Education and Science, because research and development activities in favour of defence are developed by organizations and institutions outside the system of the Ministry of Defence itself. At the same time with the political debate at European Union level, there has been a process of precision, I think you are interested in this in particular, in the appropriate projects with which the initiative will be launched. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1960, (b) 1 January 1967, (c) Approximately 1966. Last year, a list of 17 projects was formed to set the actual start of work on the initiative. The projects were announced with the adoption of the Council conclusions on the launch of Permanent Structural Cooperation on 11 December last year, but they are still indicative and do not have a binding nature of the Member States. The final list of the first projects is expected to be adopted in February this year. From the projects that were included in the first group for realization, we were asked to participate in three projects "Creating a network of logistics hubs", "Transverse military mobility" and "Establishment of the maritime surveillance system." In other three projects we have expressed interest in participating as observers "Creating the European Union's medical command, "A package of military capabilities to deal with disasters, accidents and accidents, and "Development of a system of fire support from closed positions. The final proposal for Bulgaria's inclusion in separate projects will be examined in the Defence Council and proposed to the Council of Ministers, taking into account the envisaged deadlines for establishing the projects. I have tried to shorten some of the information, as there is no way I can fit in during the time prescribed by the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u133	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Vitanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Thank you for your comprehensive response. In the meantime, I got to know the two documents. One is related to the implementation of the PESCO commitments and the other is related to the National Plan for raising the costs in defence. There is no way I can spare you, or rather not share some concerns that arise from these documents. First of all, it seems to me that to a large extent the implementation of the commitments depends on the timely implementation of the three main projects for modernization of the armed forces, i.e. the acquisition of a modular patrol ship, the acquisition of a new type of combat plane and the acquisition of fighting equipment for the military forces. As we can see, we already have a serious delay due to both political decisions and the technical inability of some of the selected contractors to secure the implementation within a time limit that puts the implementation of the commitments at risk, even though there are funds set aside in the budget. Secondly, it is clear from the National Plan for raising defence spending that there are too optimistic values of GDP growth, especially by 2020, I think they were between 5 and 6 to reach 6% of forecast values, which seems difficult to achieve and also calls into question the implementation of the Plan. With regard to the projects you mentioned, which are essentially not new, but there is no high degree of concreteization of them for joint participation by the Bulgarian side, as a possibility for the use of funds from the European Defence Fund. And one fourth, which directly concerns the previous one, does not have a catalogue of the capabilities of the Bulgarian defence industry to give an overview of the comparative advantages and possible advantage in applying for a project funded by the European Defence Fund. Therefore, despite the assurances that we have academic expertise and economic potential, we are not ready, unlike other countries, to participate actively in the projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u135	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! What we are talking about is largely linked to the modernization project. There's boxing. I'm not going in. It's a completely different subject. Time won't be enough. Political and purely subjective are the reasons. You know, especially for the multifunctional patrol ship, we made it through to the end, but it happened that the winning firm considered that the funds that had been set aside after two years were not enough to implement the project. Regarding the catalogue of companies in the military industrial complex. Catalog officially issued no, but contacts with these companies have been held literally since the first week since the new government and the new political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, forums have been held many times. Of course, this is an ambition that we have. We're going to do this catalog for clarity and operationality. With regard to all the other questions that you have raised, this is an issue that concerns not only Parliament. The Ministry of Defence is active, but at the same time it was actually the main topic that we all, including representatives of the National Assembly, discussed at the National Security Advisory Council with the President last week. Thank you for your attention and wish everyone a good day! Those I didn't see and wish for success in the New Year, I take the opportunity to wish everyone good luck! The Bulgarian Parliament made a wonderful move yesterday.. showed unity on the topic of ratification of the Treaty on Macedonia, for which my congratulations are personally not as a person engaged in this topic, but as a Bulgarian. This is how the problems we have to solve together, all the more so at such a responsible time as has occurred since January 1st with our European Presidency. Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u137	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question is to Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, from the National Representative Professor Rumen Gechev on the investment projects of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development in Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Gechev. You have the floor to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague, honourable colleagues! My question to the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov is as follows: Dear Minister, what is the size and structure of lending to Bulgarian companies from the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development in the last five years; how have you organised the control of the effectiveness for Bulgaria of our participation in the activities of the bank?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u139	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Professor Gechev, fellow ministers! The Black Sea Trade and Development Bank is an international financial institution based in Thessaloniki, the Hellenic Republic. The bank's mission is to contribute to the development of the Black Sea region and cooperation between shareholders countries. Despite being a relatively small market participant, the bank conducts a flexible policy in line with the dynamic development of the regional economy by financing projects supporting the main priorities of its mandate. Bulgaria is one of the founding countries, shareholder of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. The Bulgarian shareholding in the statutory capital of the bank is 13.5% or 270 thousand shares. The Ministry of Finance is the institution that represents the country in the management bodies of the bank, the Board of Governors and the Board of Directors. Since 2014, Bulgaria has again had a representative of the position Vice President, who is elected on a rotational basis. The Board of Governors shall meet at least once a year and the meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held every two months. Through its representatives in the management bodies of the bank Bulgaria is actively involved in making decisions related to the business strategy and the policy of the bank, as well as in approving projects to finance their realization. The Bank's activities in individual shareholders countries are determined by a four-year period strategy approved for each particular country. The Bank's strategy for the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2015 - 2018 envisions financing of projects amounting to 126 million. EUR in the sectors of infrastructure and energy, production, small and medium-sized enterprises and tourism. The strategy is, of course, agreed with the Bulgarian side in order to comply with the priorities of the Bulgarian government. In the past five years, the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank has provided funding for the country of 84,56 million. EUR, with the approved projects coming from all priority sectors. The financial support includes credit lines for small and medium-sized enterprises, corporate loans and the purchase of corporate bonds issued by Bulgarian issuers. Expectations are by the end of 2018. The objectives of the strategy, as well as the volume involved in the strategy, should be fully covered. A little addition to the context in which I suppose you're asking the question. Bulgaria's participation as effectively paid funds is estimated at 85 million. 387 thousand. EUR and is comparable to what has been carried out as operations for the past few years. Otherwise, since the beginning of the existence of the Bank and Bulgaria's membership in it, 36 operations of 427 million have been approved. 615 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that You know that recent years the banking sector has been characterised by extremely high liquidity, both in Bulgaria and in other EU member states, which makes the competitive environment in the banking sector at a very serious level and is a challenge to all banks. In my opinion, the size of the operations implemented by the Black Sea Bank on the territory of Bulgaria can be defined as satisfactory, based on the resource that the Bulgarian country has invested as a shareholder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Gechev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Goranov, we are cardinally disagreed on the assessment that you have made that it is satisfactory lending from Black Sea Bank to Bulgaria, it is extremely unsatisfactory in my opinion. What are the facts? You were right to say: it says 14.5% is our stake. Isn't that right? However, of the loans that have been granted at the moment, our share is 6.3%, which means that we are about half of the opportunities that we can absorb. Let's see, what's going on with the other countries? Turkey has 16.5%, right, but of the current loans, the operational ones, are 24,8%, 25%. Secondly, even a country like Azerbaijan, which swims in financial resources on oil exports, chases every penny and with 5% stake in Azerbaijan, achieves 10.3%. Romania, which has 14% stake, enjoys 10.7%. That is, by comparing small and large countries, we find ourselves in the most tragic state of the first conclusion. The second conclusion, honourable colleagues and Mr. Goranov, will ask us to take concrete measures because we are participating with share capital, which we are pouring, honourable Members, in the economies of Turkey and other partners in quotes. My question is: what is Bulgaria doing? Are we participating shareholderly to finance our competitors or to finance the Bulgarian industry? So it is absolutely unsatisfactory and therefore I recommend you, colleagues, especially to Mr. Goranov, if he wants to accept every six months on the carpet the management of the Black Sea Bank with a report on what he does for Bulgaria. Because our assessment is that they are very far from the truth of their colleagues and the need to finance projects in Bulgaria. Secondly, the Black Sea Bank as a resource it offers. We all know, colleagues, it does not have a resource that cardinally provides funding, nor are interest rates significantly lower than those of IBRD and other banks, but the Black Sea Bank has one extreme advantage, which you know perfectly well that it can finance Balkan and Black Sea projects, God forbid, for Bulgarian companies operating in neighbouring countries. Something we don't do. On the contrary, the last two major projects, which are Bulgarian, because all companies operating in Bulgaria are Bulgarian. But who are they? One company producing dairy products in Northeastern Bulgaria, which is a subsidiary of a Greek mother firm, and the second large company is In the Czech Republic. Therefore, pay attention, so we are once again what we have managed to finance.. We are financing in other countries and peoples, companies to invest in Bulgaria. So things are extremely bad. Cardinal measures must be taken. We don't have time, Mr. Goranov. If you are interested we have spent a lot of hours and there are specific solutions that I can then pass on to you to facilitate the participation of Bulgarian companies in lending from Black Sea bank. I'm done with this. We are in favour of developing relations with the Western Balkans, and this is a priority? Come on, the Bulgarian government to propose concrete solutions so that we can take advantage of the investments of the Black Sea Bank and our companies - not only foreign in Bulgaria, but our companies to invest in neighbouring countries of the Balkans and in the Black Sea region at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u143	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the right to the backrest? No. We're moving on to our next question from today's program. He is next to Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, from the National Representative Petar Vitanov on the construction of the Arena Burgas. Mr. Vitanov, you're welcome to state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! "Arena Burgas" is an object of strategic importance for the whole country. Currently, the Republic of Bulgaria does not have a single indoor sports facility that meets international standards for athletics competitions, not to mention the importance of the "Arena Burgas" for the entire sports, cultural, social and economic life of Burgas and the region. That is why high hopes were given for the construction of the Arena Burgas as a multifunctional hall for sports, cultural and social events, tourism, etc. In fact, it began during the Oresharski government, which gave 5 million. lv. for the first stage of construction in February 2014 and transferred to the municipality of Burgas terrain of 8234 sq. M. owned by the Ministry of Defence in April of the same year. At the time of the first digging, on 20 October 2014, the value of the site was estimated at 32 million. lv. without VAT, and the deadline for its construction is 900 days. Then Burgas announced its candidacy for hosting the European Athletics Championship indoors in 2019. Unfortunately, 1150 days later, Therefore, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is how much is the construction of Arena Burgas expensive, how long has the construction duration been extended and for what reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vitanov, the policy of building and renovating sports infrastructure for both professional and mass sports is a top priority of the government and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In 2014 Burgas Municipality started the implementation of the project "Project and build of a multifunctional sports hall. Burgas, as a result of a contract with a contractor. The initially set price on the basis of the project from the municipality of Bourgas amounts to nearly 32 million. lv. without VAT. The initial financing of the project is provided by the state budget of the municipality of Burgas funds of up to 5 million. lv. under the programme "Employment of the regions." The implementation of the project was subsequently suspended due to the need to finance and seek an appropriate partner for project management. By Decree No 41 of 27 February 2014 of the Council of Ministers was increased the capital of Academica 2011 "EAD" by 35 million. lv. The funds intended for the implementation of the investment project - Reconstruction and modernization of the sports site - Winter Palace of Sports. Sofia. On 31 October 2016, a tripartite agreement was signed between Burgas Municipality, Academica 2011 During the implementation of the project, it was necessary to suspend construction activities due to adverse weather conditions by Act No 10 on 30 December 2016. On 24 March 2017, the model No 10 suspended construction activities due to the need to revise the approved investment project. In the process of developing the technical project, there are a number of unforeseen circumstances within the meaning that fall into the hypothesis of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act, which is why additional facilities and the MOU are being redesigned and subsequently executed, which are not covered by the preliminary and preliminary decision submitted as part of the technical proposal of the contractor at the stage of the public procurement. In more detailed geological studies, it has been found that due to the proximity of the road to the construction site a much more serious support wall and drainage system should be built. This leads to an amendment of the overall structure of the auditorium and quantitative-value accounts for part of the activities. An additional increase in concrete and reinforcement works was also required due to a change in the way of foundation due to high levels of groundwater and weak soils. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In order to wait for future regulations to conduct and reflect sports events, special interior lighting is needed. Due to the new higher standards of energy efficiency, the thickness of glass bags increases and changes their grip. There is also a need to increase the amount of metal on the main roof construction in order to enable the installation of a wide range of technological equipment. Under the Public Procurement Act, the possibility of changing the parameters of the contract with the contractor for the construction of the Multifunctional Sports Hall is envisaged. In the Ministry of Youth and Sports and in Academica 2011, EAD there is a letter from the municipality of Burgas with detailed technical justification of the requested funding. The necessary amount for the implementation of the project is increased by 15 million. 665 thousand. 888 BGN, as the allocation of funds is done with a decision of the Council of Ministers to finance the procedure under art. 116 of the ZOP. The duration of the project's construction works has not expired since it has been suspended several times due to unforeseen circumstances, as well as the need to process the approved investment project. The extension of the period for the realization of the construction of the Multifunctional Sports Hall is a necessary prerequisite for the quality and most cost-effective construction of the site. The application of Burgas Municipality to host a European championship has not been made since it can be made really after the completion of the site. Our commitments and the deadline we have given to the contractor for the completion of the site are by the end of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have only received an answer from the last sentence to one part of the three questions I have asked, which means the extension of the deadline will be nearly two years. But not only am I not satisfied, I am desperate for your answer. I am convinced that it would be the same if I had asked the question about the Colorado in Plovdiv or about the Palace of Culture and Sports in Varna, where sports halls were turned into shops. And then we should not be surprised that since GERB rules us, we do not have a gold medal in the summer Olympics and for the first time in 56 years we have been without a medal in perhaps the most Bulgarian sport. So, Mr. Kralev, the saga with "Arena" "Burgas" may be the wreath of GERB policy. In short, corruption and destruction. For comparison: the demonized government of Oresharski departments five million and changed ownership to nearly nine thousand square meters at an average price...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u149	Aren't you listening to what nonsense you're saying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u150	No, I'm not listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u151	Proceed, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u152	Would you be so kind as to speak to me first? [[Reply from Minister Krasen Kralev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u153	Please avoid such conversations and dialogues in this style!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u154	So if Arena Armeets was ready within the planned deadlines, our elite athletes would not have to conduct their training abroad, but on the contrary, Burgas would be a Balkan centre for mutual preparation, combining wonderful opportunities for recovery with the ten-minute drive from Pomorie Hall and an airport of five minutes. The residents of Burgas and the region would have a center for mass sport, for cultural events, for social life, but the Arena is no longer in Burgas because in October 2016 the property on the field was changed from municipal to state and now the inhabitants of the city and its management have to pay to use the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u155	Otherwise, would they use it for free?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u156	The case alone is a sufficient reason for a vote of no confidence towards the government, whose member, Minister, is you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. You have the floor for the coat, Minister Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u158	Dear Mr. Vitanov, obviously you have not heard a word of what I have just said, because your reply was written in advance. The reply was written in advance, so no matter what I have read here, what report I have given, you would still say the same words from the stand. Absolutely untenable talk about medals, about the inability of athletes to train. This isn't a training room, let me tell you first! Prepare and read carefully. Obviously on the topic you are incompetent, exceptional, so I do not want to go into other details [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u159	Please, no such qualifications for the folks...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u160	I just heard a corruption charge. We've been listening to things you didn't interrupt him about, haven't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u161	I warned both of you and the MP, and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u162	And you're interrupting me! He's not competent. This gym isn't about training, this gym is about racing. We've done Asix Arena for training.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u163	Please, Minister, calm down and answer... [[Noise and shouting from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u164	... Know where you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u165	Excuse me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u166	Know where you are! You have no right to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u167	Stop this kind of dialogue in this room! Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u168	You're not the boss! It's not you who's gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u169	Please don't call from the gym! [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u170	We'll look at you with a smile. [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] What's this about?! Is this parliament, is it the National Assembly, what is it, what is it? [[turns to Chairman Nigyar Jaffer]] ?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u171	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u172	I'll give you a procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u173	Thank you for your attention, it's pointless here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u174	I ask the Minister to stay because he is concerned with this!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u175	Here you are, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u176	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I'm sorry, but I saw that you were trying to bring some order and stop the outrageous behaviour of a minister in the stands. But please be stricter because the Minister has come here not to give qualifications to the MPs, but to answer their questions! And it's a matter of respect for parliament, his behaviour from this tribune. Even more so with the remark is this parliament? Yes, this is a parliament, Mr. Minister, who nominated you as Minister! This is where you should behave! If you're in your ministry forgiving yourself, this is not the place to do it! You must be a worthy representative of the executive power!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u177	Mr. Ermenkov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u178	That's why people don't love you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u179	...to control emotions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u180	And that's why, Minister, we're in this shit like sports and medals! You'd better take care of what you're given to do as a policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u181	Mr. Ermenkov, the lead procedure should be directed at me. I accept your remark. We continue with the questions to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov concerning Republican Road III-862, village of Boykovo, village of Sitovo, village of Lilkovo, district of Plovdiv. Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u182	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is related to a project for rehabilitation of one road, which is of important strategic importance for the city of Plovdiv and for the whole of Bulgaria, as it represents an alternative route for southern Bulgaria to important parts of the Belomorie. It is an old road, it is a road that provides a recreational area for Plovdiv. The road was started in the period of Stanishev's government, it still has a little bit more time left. This is road III-862 that connects in the Boykovo section. My question: is it planned to be completed this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u183	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u184	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yordanov! Road III-862 Plovdiv "Primenets" "Plovdiv" and "Smolyan" connects the districts of Plovdiv and Smolyan. On the territory of Plovdiv region the Republican road is 37.9 km long, it was built more than 40 years ago and is actually damaged by operational characteristics. I will very quickly describe what they are. The third-class road has the year-round most intensive load to the village of Pervenets, and during the summer season and the rest due to the increase of the airport to the big villa zones through the villages of Izvor, Dedevo, Boykovo and Lilkovo. The division from kilometer zero to kilometer 17 plus 600 from road II-86 to about 2.5 km after the branch for the village of Boykovo was reconstructed in the 1970s with asphalt pavement with a gauge of six to eight meters. To the village of Hrabrino the road is with hilly terrain, after which it is entirely in mountain terrain with variable gauge. The division is in relatively good operational condition these nearly 18 km. However, the division from km 17 and 600 and km 30 plus 501 after the branch for the village of Boykovo through the village of Sitovo to the end of the village of Lilkovo is in heavy mountain terrain in the ravine of the Pervenetska river with insufficient gauge and durable pavement. It is filled with a broken stone flooring with a width of not more than five meters, i.e. with a very low gauge. His condition is very bad. During the period 2007 - 2009 part construction and repair activities were carried out in the section under the repair programme of the Agency Road Infrastructure. However, in order to improve the transport and service qualities of the road and its accessories within the existing gauge without technical project. The site was not finished with asphalt layers in 2008 due to lack of funds, unfortunately. The implementation of the repair activities in 2017 That is what I will then say, perhaps, despite the limited financial resources of the Agency, Road Infrastructure is taking into account the importance of the workload of Republican road III-862 in view of what I have mentioned at present and what you have asked as a question. So, so far, the repairs carried out claim to be permanently insufficient, palliative as measures, and in view of this, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning the implementation of the necessary repairs to the Boykovo section of Sitovo, which I mentioned were the most severe and disrupted performance, in 2018, and we will take advantage of the possibility of two of the Agency's budget programmes Just for reference last year 2017 "Current repair and maintenance" for the district are spent on the basis of the revenues it collects "Railway infrastructure" for the whole area, not for the specific road section, just under three million levs with VAT. We see what a small resource we have the opportunity to grant under the current renovation, so the required funding for the designated section is the better option. However, for the overall rehabilitation under targeted funding, a technical project will be developed, something that we are currently entrusting. Preparation of a detailed development plan, a parcel plan, after which we will proceed to conduct the appropriate procedures for choosing a road or designing for the construction of the section itself, this is the overall solution, and not the palliative mending, in the course of the current repair we see and what the budget is, I mentioned. I thought I would list what roads were made in 2017 in the districts of Plovdiv and Smolyan and what is to come. We are well aware of how many sites in both areas we have started and will complete within 2018, and also under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" we will start this year, we will finish them in 2019. I think it's unnecessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u185	Thank you, Minister Nankov. You don't want a line, I understand, Professor Yordanov. There's not gonna be a double. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works... a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Svetla Bachvarova concerning Republican Road III-4072, Strazhitsa section You are ordered to ask your question, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I can't help but start with the alarming fact of a black statistic in which Bulgaria takes the lead, namely the number of victims on the road. Bulgaria ranks first on road victims for the European Union for 2016. However, the alarming conclusion of this statistics and this analysis is that the trend and growth remain. Leading areas in this statistics and according to this analysis are the districts of Lovech, Razgrad, Vidin, Montana, as one of the main reasons, of course, for this statistics is the state of road infrastructure. You, Minister, must know that the state of the road infrastructure for the whole of Northern Bulgaria is worrying. It is defined by citizens and by residents as dire. My main question is about the state of the Republican road Strazhitsa "Stazhitsa" - Nikolaevo - Popovo, which has been repeatedly put to us by carriers, of course, and especially by the residents of the districts of Veliko Tarnovo, Razgrad and Targovishte. The section poses huge risks of accidents that can and, of course, endanger people's lives and health. The problem also has its sharpness from the fact that from here passes all passenger transport to 100% for the district of Razgrad. Each day more than 100 heavy goods vehicles pass. Our question is as follows: do you also foresee when a major repair of this extremely important road section for the three areas?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u188	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, you in an announcement of the question in a summary asked a topic aimed rather at asking on a common policy, road safety and the problem of Republican roads in Northern Bulgaria mainly. I'm going to mark two things very quickly on this issue. Perhaps on Tuesday, during the vote, I will be able to speak on the subject much more closely. Road safety complex of factors. By the way, bad trend, we have a reverse proportional trend in the quality of the Republican road and the number of serious traffic accidents, severe traumatism in road accidents and victims. That is to say, in a better way, this is the Lovech section, for example on the road I-4 around Mikre, rehabilitated and basically made road, we have a really severe traumatism, times 7-8 times, and more victims. Regarding the policy for Northern Bulgaria "Hemus" is related to road safety and everything, about Vidin we also mentioned, but on Tuesday, I think I will have the opportunity to talk. Very quick for the particular road. Road III-4072 is 12.3 km long and is entirely in the territory of the region of Tarnovo, making the connection between two other third-class roads, I will not quote them, mainly serving the settlements in the municipality of Strazhitsa, but it is also used for a transit road, we know, as an alternative In 2008, a major repair of the third-class road along its entire length was launched, the repairs were completed in the section from kilometer 8,800 to kilometer 12,300 and is currently in good operational condition, a small part of the road, however. Due to a shortage of financial resources, the section from km 0 to km 8,800 was introduced only a layer of non-solid asphalt concrete, i.e. a bandager, after which the construction of the site was terminated. According to an expert assessment of the completion of the road, approximately 3 million are needed. Five hundred thousand. lv. In 2017, the answer for the current repair and maintenance of the Republican road network in the region of Tarnovo is similar to that for the district of Plovdiv, a little over 2 million were invested. 200,000. lv. with VAT, but unlike the district of Plovdiv, in Veliko Tarnovo on three other road sections of the third-class Republican road network we started, some of them ended and others will end in 2018 with fully completed activities. Those are the roads III-405 Dobromirka.. Pavlikeni "Svishtov, with a total value of more than 2 million. 200,000. lv. with VAT, road III-504 Self-diversation, from km 0 to km 26+114 for 4 million. Five hundred thousand. lv.; Kamen "Gorna Oryahovitsa," Veliko Tarnovo, for more than 1 million BGN. in this section in 2017. So calmly by means that we have under the current renovation, however insufficient, in 2018, we will make repairs in these 8,800 km, but I am convinced that they will be insufficient for its overall rehabilitation and with this I am finished. When we talk about rehabilitation of third-class and major road sections, we see what a huge problem is facing the state, and not today and yesterday. For the past 25 years there has been a financial shortage, regardless of their party decoration and the konncture in which it manages, about the really underfunded road sector in the country not only for the construction of new road sections, and I am ending with this sentence, but also with the rehabilitation of existing republican roads. Therefore, because we have a problem, we are taking the necessary measure and policy to build the mixed system of tolls and electronic wineries in order to collect three times more revenue, and mainly transiting trucks, to rehabilitate all the other roads for which I am really asked every Friday questions, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u189	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, dear Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u190	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I think that your response will mostly make the inhabitants of the said three areas dissatisfied, especially because they use it as a main road section for Razgrad district. You yourself said that the condition was extremely bad and disturbing. The very fact that one of the main reasons for victims on the road is the condition and the bad infrastructure cannot be cancelled. The very state of the road is also because of the seismic situation in this area, where there are many landslide processes. The very fact that it is built without having the necessary drainage ditches and facilities puts it as even more dangerous to the citizens and to those who use this road section. Because the state of aquaplaning You know yourself You are also a driver, you know how many dangers it hides, especially in seasons such as Bulgaria and most often in these regions of the country there is rain, snow and so on. The very fact that you are putting it back in the state of current repairs does not cancel your responsibility and obligation to find the funds in particular to cover the need for major repairs to this road section. It has become a practice for you to refer us to the system, to possible means that it will accumulate in the future indefinitely, and I believe that you are obliged to the citizens of these three areas, ultimately to find the means to basically repair this extremely important road section. It is not a question of whether I will be pleased with your answer, it is important that the inhabitants of these three areas are satisfied with your response and your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Here's your coat, dear Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, you have understood very well what the answer was and what a really objective reality and reality we and our colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency are facing. But for the region of Veliko Tarnovo and for neighbouring districts no less important are the sections of which I referred to two of the four that we started in 2017, we were able to complete within the calendar year. I think the inhabitants of Veliko Tarnovo and Gorna Oryahovitsa are pleased that the road with Arbanassi was rehabilitated. Your colleague Bojankov, after several questions asked within the last year, is pleased that we started rehabilitating the road Self-driving I also mentioned the other road sections that we started and we will finish in this year 2018. So let's end them, not to end them and to direct financial resources to the said section of Nikolaevo "Strazitsa," to complete them, to start with this repair. You're an intelligent enough person, and you realize very well that I'm not just forwarding. We are doing real action on the toll system and if I went back in time they were able to introduce it, we would not be commenting at the moment on these topics and the state of the third-class Republican roads. Indeed, under a financial deficit of about 700 million. lv. on an annual basis for the maintenance of Republican roads, another is the question of quality spending. On Tuesday, we will perhaps be talking about this topic about the quality of spending of the financial resource, because once we have to look at its quantitative dimension, and the second time how quality and efficiency of this resource is spent on the basis of the biggest problems and on the basis of the minimised at all possible costs, based on greater added value. The faster the system is introduced, I stressed, which will mainly load transit heavy goods vehicles, the faster these issues will be subjected to a long-term effective solution and Bulgarian citizens, in the short term even will enjoy and really use a European Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u193	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Allow me to thank you for the participation in today's parliamentary control of Minister Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. We continue with the questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. The first question he will answer is the question by the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Hristo Prodanov on a policy to overcome the lack of life-saving medicines reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you are, dear Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u194	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Ananiev! Our question is related precisely to the lack of medicines in the pharmacies network reimbursed by the NHIF. Daily thousands of Bulgarian citizens face the lack of different types of insulin on the market. For those in need, it's a life-support drug. The shortage isn't local, it's found all over the country. Examples are therefore from Sofia through Veliko Tarnovo to Silistra, which is evidence of systemic error, as well as of abuses in particularly large sizes. On the one hand, these drugs are missing from the network, but it is not only about insulin, but it is one of the most ill problems, as it is about 600,000 people. The other problem is that Bulgaria ranks third in the European Union in the intensity of pharmacies after Greece and Cyprus. In Bulgaria, there are 51 pharmacies against 30 average European Union. At the same time, there are no pharmacies throughout Bulgaria. So in one case, we have entire municipalities where there are no pharmacies. I'll give you an example of Kynarja, for example. From another point of view, we have pharmacies where there are no meds. So the problem besides existing pharmacies is that the network itself does not cover the whole country. What policy will the Health Ministry that you direct for permanent and effective prevention of the lack of vital medicines reimbursed by the NHIF, as is the insulin for about 600,000 Bulgarians? What specific measures will you take, and within what time do you foresee the resolution of these problems, because time here is of the utmost importance for these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u195	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Welcome for an answer to the question, Dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u196	Mr. Mirchev and Mr. Prodanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! At present, a problem in drug policy is the supply of life-saving medicinal products such as insulin, medicines for epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, oncology and other parallel trade subjects leading to a deficit on our pharmaceutical market. The reason for this deficit is the re-export of medicinal products to countries of the European Union where their price is much higher. The Ministry of Health's efforts are aimed at taking measures to address this problem. Adopted by the Council of Ministers draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which has been submitted to the National Assembly. I'm sorry, it's a little time. I can tell you more about this law, but I won't have enough minutes. New provisions for the regulation of measures to monitor medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List and to limit their exports are laid down in the Bill if there is a lack or shortage in the country's territory. In 2017, the Ministry of Health also took a number of initiatives aimed at identifying and crossing illegal practices in the otherwise legal re-export activity. In February was held a meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Health with the Management Board of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria. A Memorandum of Cooperation and Partnership was signed. The Ministry of Health and the Association of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers made a commitment to cooperate in ensuring access to high quality and effective medicinal products for Bulgarian citizens. The Ministry of Health initiated and met with representatives of the Executive Agency for Medicines, the National Revenue Agency and the National Health Insurance Fund, which discussed the possibilities for joint checks by the three institutions. A schedule was prepared for their conduct. The Ministry of Health urged holders of Marketing Authorisations, the Bulgarian Association of Wholesalers with Drugs and the Bulgarian Association for the Development of parallel drug trade to develop their ethical rules and to comply with them so that shocking situations on the market and a threat to the health of the population are not reached. Some of the Marketing Authorisation Holders have taken steps to partially compensate for the shortage of medicinal products they provide with an established deficit on the pharmacological market and are subject to re-export. A successful example of this is a company supplying one of the most used brands of insulin in the country, which together with the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union, has revealed a hotline for patients who have failed to provide their prescriptions for insulin. Depending on the location from which the signal comes, the patient is assisted by providing information on the nearest pharmacies available at the time with the medicinal product sought. In recent months, the Drug Executive Agency, exercising regular and emergency controls, has carried out a large number of checks on drug users, wholesalers and retailers, with medicinal products in various areas of the country. The checks are carried out separately by both the Agency's inspectors and in cooperation with the National Revenue Agency's team and the Directorate-General for Organized Crime. There have been cases of buying-in of medicines by wholesalers from pharmacies for the purpose of their subsequent re-export. Where such a type of infringement is detected, acts to establish an administrative infringement shall be issued and brought. After a comprehensive analysis of the data and the results of the checks carried out on the various market participants, it can be concluded that medicinal products that are subject to a re-export are delivered to the country regularly and distributed by importers to a relatively limited number of large distributors with national coverage, and further redistribute them to medical establishments, pharmacies or smaller distributors operating in a particular region of the country. Some of these distributors focused mainly on re-export activities. Unregulated practices have been identified in the sector and methods have been developed to neutralize them. A successful approach to dealing with the problem at the moment, caused by the lack of certain medicinal products, is, on the one hand, the introduction of an adequate, regulatoryly written, motivating and regulating mechanism to take into account the quantities of the regulated re-export carried out, to be able to limit it if necessary and, on the other hand, to continue co-operation between state authorities with regard to compliance with the legal rules in the trade in medicinal products and crossing the unregulated re-export practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u197	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Two supplementary questions next. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! From the answer to your question, I understand one thing: it may have become clear to you that the self-sustaining political opposition of the party, whose minister you are and represent, in quite a number of cases, is harmful to the Bulgarian society and patients. What do I mean? In the Forty-second National Assembly, BSP, as a ruling political power, makes changes to the Law on Medicine in Human Medicine, what you are undertaking, and it is roughly identical with what you are proposing. The MPs from GERB then referred to the Constitutional Court and President Rosen Plevneliev vetoed this law. The reasons are mainly market-based, that this, you see, would hinder the free movement of goods and the free market. The German, French, Swiss, Austrian and so on patients are especially happy because they have the opportunity to obtain access to cheaper medicines through this parallel export, but the Bulgarian citizens and patients are unhappy. Therefore, I urge you to answer my question: do you feel that in the system that you are leading, really, should not the market be the leading one? In some situations in this system, it is necessary in the center and in the middle to be patients, because if we leave them on the market, they become goods at some point, unfortunately, unnecessary goods. And another question that you missed, and it is essential for small pharmacies in small remote municipalities. The delay in payment by the National Health Insurance Fund is a big problem. A small pharmacist who has spent his money during the month and who has not received his money back in the Health Insurance Fund has no opportunity, no available resources to charge his pharmacy. This suffers, first, his business and then, which, by the way, comes first, patients who need these life-saving medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u199	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u200	Dear Mr. Prodanov, we have no difference in thinking about the first question. Since I have become a minister for two months and 10 days, my colleagues and I have been talking about the legal framework that we have to offer to you or the Council of Ministers at the heart of this regulation must be the patient, so there is absolutely no difference. With regard to the second question, it is true that the last payment of pharmacies last year was made at the beginning of this year, however, the difference was only four working days. I think this deadline is not fatal and we have not contributed to the financial difficulties of these small pharmacies. The last payment was at 28 and we first thought that on the 4th or 5th, we paid the pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u201	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Who will express respect for the Minister's response? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister Ananiev! From our question and from your answers I understand that you really understand about the problems they have in the system and that Bulgarian patients do not have access to life-saving and life-saving medicines. What concerns me is that I have not been able to hear the solution to these problems, and you have not set any deadlines for this. I'm gonna come back here for the patients, because there are a number of patients who have diabetes, and this is about their lives. You should pay particular attention to the parallel related structures, because there are distributors who only give medicines to their pharmacies to be more competitive than their competitors. We must also consider the electronic recipe, we must consider the electronic monitoring system for personalities and the movement of drugs, even though we are in an open market in the European Union, a number of abuses are being made and therefore we cannot close our eyes. Let us not forget that since 2013, during the time of Oresharski, when parallel exports were worth about 85 million, at the moment its value has reached 400 million and one part of them is on the back of the Bulgarian taxpayer. That's why I'm not entirely satisfied myself. I am pleased that you know about the problems and appreciate them, but I am not satisfied that I have not heard anything specific and I have not heard deadlines for solving these problems. I will draw attention to you again: this is about human lives, hundreds of thousands of lives, and it needs to be reacted as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u203	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. We are going to ask the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev about the Strategy for the conservation and development of municipal hospitals. Here you are, Dr. Timchev, obviously you will develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Professor Georgi Yordanov and I ask you about a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. It is known that hospital care facilities in the country are in serious financial condition. This most applies to municipal hospitals. Here to the main problems concerning the lack and ageing of medical professionals, the outdated building fund and equipment, the insufficient funds for capital expenditure, the too high requirements of medical standards, the heavy financial situation of the owners of the municipalities is added. Some of them are in an even worse financial state than their hospitals, which is why they cannot allocate the necessary funds for their existence, while the municipal hospitals occupy an important place in the country's health card and are an indispensable element of it. So far, different perspectives have been expressed on the future of municipal hospitals: from opinions on the missing need of them and replacing them with hospital care facilities with emergency beds, to the need for their restructuring in modern and multi-profile hospitals, or their transformation into a hospital for healing and rehabilitation. We believe that, in the context of a demographic crisis and depopulation of entire regions, the issue raised is of particular importance to ensure the need for Our question to you is: what will be your strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals and how do you intend to implement it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Timchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just one sentence to Mr. Mirchev about the previous question. Not only do I know the matter and condition, but if you look at the imported Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Medicine in Medicine, you will see the process of tracking the medicines, you will also see the electronic system that will be covered by the manufacturer through the wholesaler, through the retailer to the National Health Insurance Fund, which pays for this resource. The answer to your questions is in the Draft Law itself, but there is no time to tell it now. In this regard, the public relations related to the financing of medical establishments, including municipal hospitals, according to the current Normative Framework, are regulated by the provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions, a sole owner of the capital of municipal medical institutions in the municipality concerned, which has the authority through the Municipal Council, to decide on their financial condition or restructuring. In accordance with art. 106 of the Law on Medical Institutions the state and municipalities can finance medical institutions for the implementation of national, regional and municipal health programmes and projects, as well as for the carrying out of certain types of medical activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance and on the basis of a contract. The third subparagraph of that Article gives the State a legal opportunity to grant subsidies to hospital care establishments established by the municipalities on a proposal from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, in hardly accessible and/or remote regions by criteria and order, defined in a methodology of the Minister of Health within the framework of the funds provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant calendar year. For years, the health debate has been exhausted by the need for additional funds, despite the fact that health expenditure increases annually, contrary to the dissatisfaction with the situation of the sector by all participants in this process. Therefore, a solution to the accumulated problems in the health sector should not only be sought in finding an additional resource without being accompanied by a proposal for lasting and consistent legislative changes leading to the optimization of the system, the closure of ineffective activities and structures, the introduction of adequate control mechanisms, additional resources in unoptimized hospital structures, without analysing the causes and factors that led to this, leads only to ineffective spending of public funds without achieving the desired and sought result. The problems related to the difficult financial situation of municipal hospitals, their delays and lack of qualified medical staff are complex and not for one or two years. In this regard, the current management of the Ministry of Health carries out an assessment of health risks at regional level. On the basis of the analysis carried out, measures will be proposed for the rescue of these medical institutions The aim of the measures is to optimize their costs and improve the quality of the healing process. Actions have been taken to draw up uniform standards for the management of state and municipal hospital care facilities and mechanisms for control of their implementation. The establishment of such mechanisms will enable hospital managers to have responsible financial management and provide quality treatment. We will propose to local authorities that they take similar measures in the case of public hospitals and municipal hospitals. In support of the above is the preparation of a major investment project under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" (2014-2020).), Priority Axis 4 "Regional Health Infrastructure." The main objective of the project is renovation and modernization of the building fund and equipment in the emergency assistance system throughout the country. The total budget of the project is 163 million. lv. The preparation of the project proposal in line with the priorities of the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2020" and the National Reform Programme, the National Health Strategy 2020, the Action Plan to it, the Medical Standard "Emergency Medicine" and the concept of the development of emergency medical care in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 789 of 2014, which outlines the necessary actions to improve the work in the emergency medical care system in Bulgaria and to ensure its sustainability. This project will help very much the overall restructuring of hospital care and improving management of management teams in both state and municipal hospitals. At the same time, we are progressing in another project related to the national health information system, which will also play a very big role in overall coordination in medical work, and we are in the process of developing the National Health Card, which also plays an important role in the reform of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Please ask the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u208	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister Ananiev, the problem with municipal hospitals cannot be solved under the current legislation. You have replied that you are doing everything within the framework of the legislation in force to resolve it, that is to say, their activities to be secured. What's this about? In its domesticity of a commercial company, a hospital must have a health region of at least 70 thousand people to have enough patients who, seeking medical care, respectively financed, provide it with sufficient resources to develop it as a modern European hospital. Unfortunately, however, we have depopulated regions in the country. Somewhere the municipal hospitals, typical of the hospital in Devin, serve a health region of between 10 and 15 thousand people. I claim, as a recent health manager, that a hospital cannot respond financially, cannot have this income when it comes to serving only 15,000 people. To serve one person, she has to have X-rays, labs, microbiology, pathoanatomy and so on, and there's no one to fund them. That's why I think we need to understand that municipal hospitals, especially small municipal hospitals, are in the situation of a fire department, God forbid they don't work, but they have to be there. The fire department, if it has to be funded only by the fires, it will also go bankrupt because there is not enough activity. At the same time, the owners of municipal hospitals, in some cases you know very well, at least until recently, that they are in worse condition than municipal hospitals. They cannot help financially or in any other way their structure. That is why we want to challenge a debate about the role, place and importance of the municipal hospital, because we think it is an inalienable unit in the National Health Card. Without it, we cannot provide the Bulgarian citizens with normal access to hospital medical care. In this aspect of thoughts we want to challenge the debate with a clear awareness that at the moment you cannot legally meet these requirements, but ultimately decide whether these municipal hospitals in the small towns will exist or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u209	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For us, municipal hospitals are an extremely important unit in the entire hospital system. However, what we are doing with the financing of these hospitals is related to the legislation in force. You know that they are financed on the basis of volume and prices defined in the National Framework Treaty. We cannot finance in any other way than the methodology approved by the Minister of Health for payment of activities outside the guaranteed package, which is paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. What I, as a minister, can do for the financing of municipal hospitals in 2018, and I said it to their association, is to make a very serious review of the budget of the Ministry of Health and all possible savings that can be realised, to direct them to finance municipal hospitals according to the methodology I spoke about a little while ago. We also have conversations with the Bulgarian Medical Union, where the chairman of the Supervisory Board is my Deputy Minister Zheni Nacheva, to look particularly carefully at those clinical pathways that are most widely used by municipal hospitals, to review the structure of these pathways and, if possible, increase the price of these clinical pathways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna express attitude? Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I see that you have a clear vision to do everything possible, but at the same time we know that you legally can't do it because you have very restrictive norms that stop you. Therefore, as a country in this debate, we want to provoke a debate. Clearly, the regulatory system must change in such a way that you can unfold and help these hospitals exist. That's why we want to provoke a debate, we've collected the necessary signatures. [[Passing a folder to the Chair.]] We call for this next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u213	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, in connection with the inquiry, by letter No 854-003 of 19 January 2018, submitted today at 12.47, there was a request for a debate on questioning No 754-05-57 of 23 November 2017 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the Strategy for the Conservation and Development of Municipal Hospitals. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 71 Members of the National Assembly. 105, para. 1 of the Staff Regulations, more than one-fifth of the Members of Parliament, to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision at the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and is related to echinococcosis in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to ask the question about echinococcosis in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u214	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the House! Echinococcosis is one of the most severe parasites in man and leads to prolonged disability, frequent recurrences, often to permanent disability and high mortality, which makes it a severe medical-social and economic problem in the countries where it is distributed. According to the analyses of the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, echinococcosis is a rare disease with average morbidity in the period 2006 - 2014 - two in every 100 thousand. the human population in Bulgaria. The monitoring data of 1950 and following declines and peaks in the years 1992 recorded a dramatic increase in the incidence with values exceeding the baseline values for the period 1951. 6.5 per cent. In 1998, the incidence reached 8.47 per 100,000. the human population. In 2004, the National Programme for the Control of Echinococcosis in Human and Animals with Period of Action 2004 was adopted. The main goal is to establish a lasting trend for reduction of invasion and a sharp reduction of morbidity. With today's date the data on Bulgaria and their comparison with those for other European countries show an extremely adverse situation. At the moment when its official observation began, it took a lasting first place in the European Union, and in the first year of monitoring.. 2006, Bulgarian echinococcosis represents half of the European.................................................................................................. The relative share of sick and operated Bulgarians in 2014 is 41.7% and is almost 4 times higher than the share of patients in Germany, which is second after us by 13.6%. Here I have more data on the number of people in surgery that are in my main question, and I'm not going to repeat it. I would like to say that to date, most of the population is at risk and at the same time for radical removal of echinococcosis the echinococcal cyst from the liver, the health care fund relaxes on the clinical path BGN 188 only 1335 and the Health Insurance Fund reimburses 100% the albendazol course if I pronounce it correctly, but the drug is missing in the pharmacies network. The questions, Minister, are: within what deadlines will measures be taken regarding the echinococcosis for which our country is an endemic region? Will the National Programme for Control of Echinococcosis in Humans and Animals be rebooted for a new period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u215	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You neglected to ask about the helmintozoosis. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, echinococcosis is a cosmopolitan parasite. It is one of the severe parasites in man, leading to prolonged incompetence, often and permanent disability, which, as you have pointed out, makes it a serious medical-social and economic problem of our country. In our country the source of the invasion is the ultimate host dog, wolf, jackal. In countries where parasitosis intensity in dogs is low, such as Germany, Sweden, Norway, echinococcosis among intermediate hosts, farm animals sheep, goats, horses, rabbits and humans are rare. The incidence of echinococcosis among the world's population varies widely. In some countries of the European Union sporadic, mainly imported cases, these are the countries Ireland, Norway, Denmark, Sweden. Low is the incidence in Spain, Austria, England, Portugal, Greece, the Netherlands. The comparison of official data on Bulgaria with those in other European countries shows a significantly higher value of the registered absolute number of people with echinococcosis per year, which according to experts from the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases is due to the good legal basis in health, as a result of which registration of cases with cystic echinococcosis is at a much better level than in a number of European countries. For the period 2006 - 2016 a total of 4074 cases of cystic echinococcosis, an average annual incidence of 4,63 per 100 000 population were recorded in the country. The districts of Sliven, Kardzhali, Shumen, Targovishte, Silistra and Dobrich have the highest annual incidence. For the period 2007 - 2016 out of a total of 3531 patients, 615 or 17.42% were in adolescent age. The more important reasons for the widespread spread of echinococcosis in recent years are: firstly, failure by municipalities in full volume of the existing regulatory base for control of the dog population, including partial registration and passportization of domestic dogs. The result is an increase in the number of wandering dogs that are not dewormed and create permanent conditions for infecting humans and domestic animals. Secondly, it is the disposal of offal and corpses of dead animals outside the carnivals, which creates a condition for the contamination of dogs. And thirdly, insufficient health culture and ignorance for protection against echinococcosis infection. During the period 2004 - 2008 the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry jointly implemented the National Programme for Control of Echinococcosis in Humans and Animals with Good Results. Taking into account the seriousness of the problem, the Ministry of Health through the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases is ready to prepare a continuation of the medical part of the Programme in short time. Echinococcosis is a serious problem for society, which can only be solved with the joint and coordinated efforts of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Environment and Water, regional governors, municipalities and mayors, environmental organizations, as well as mass media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, this is a serious matter. I'm not a medical professional, so you'll excuse me if I'm wrong about terminology somewhere, but ever since I met the problem of people who are scientifically involved with parasitology and specifically with echinococcosis, this question hasn't given me peace. Could in one country of the European Union half of the cases of a serious disease leading to serious socio-economic losses be in my country, and the society is not alarmed about it, and the responsible institutions should not take measures? A disease that affects a million and two hundred-three thousand people in the world, and the global annual cost of treating sick people is an economic loss for livestock farming, is over 3 billion. The dollar. Perhaps in terms of the serious problems we have in health care, the problem of echinococcosis does not seem that significant, but we cannot afford to ignore such a socially significant disease, at least because every fifth patient in surgery is a child. In addition, there is a lack of funding of clinical pathways, and this leads to inaccurate documentation, respectively registration and hence the inability of subsequent chemoprophylactics, dispanserisation, as well as a reduction in morbidity. There are no drugs available to treat chemoprophylaxis. This makes therapy and prophylaxis difficult. High morbidity indicates serious deficiencies in health culture and behaviour, and this in the context of a prolonged socio-economic crisis, especially among marginal communities, leads to deterioration of health performance and the quality of life of patients with echinococcosis. I want to pay attention to you! You said that this large number of registered cases of disease was due to the good work of the registration. I hope you don't just give it to good registration. Mr. Minister, me and the people who are involved with the problem are left with the hope of urgent and adequate measures, and for the beginning it is imperative to be an investee in the continuation of the Echinococcosis Control Program on Humans and Animals. This will save the Health Fund money for treatment and temporary and permanent disability. Perhaps we should involve the Minister or the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in solving the problem. I am very pleased with what you have said that there is as soon as possible the preparation of a continuation of the Programme and possibly you, as a minister, to engage in the financing that the common fund will not take much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u219	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you're not going to use the right to the back? Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Christian Vigenin for Sofia's candidacy for the seat of the European Medicines Agency. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to present the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In 2017, Bulgaria announced Sofia's candidacy for the seat of the European Medicines Agency after Britain's exit from the European Union, which is currently hosting the Agency. The Ministry of Health has a leading role in preparing Bulgaria's candidacy and campaign to support it. As a result, however, Sofia received an extremely low assessment as a possible host of the Agency and quickly became an outsider in this kind of competition, which was confirmed by the final decision to host the Agency to be the city of Amsterdam. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what are the leading reasons for the failure of the Bulgarian candidacy and what part of the responsibility do you take as the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, the team responsible for the campaign? I ask the question with clarity that you are not personally responsible, but I think that what happened to the European Medicines Agency and our application should be a lesson for everyone and I think there should be a consequence and an analysis of why it happened and who is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u222	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! The application of the city of Sofia to host the European Medicines Agency EMA was officially promoted by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 429 of 31 July 2017. The necessary documents were prepared by the team of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In line with the criteria set, it was emphasized on the strengths of the capital: the availability of appropriate educational institutions for the children of the Agency's staff; appropriate access to the labour market; social security and medical assistance; continuity of the Agency's work by providing qualified expertise; geographical distribution. In relation to the last criterion, Bulgaria clearly stated in the General Affairs Council meeting that our country does not have a European agency on its territory, so it fully fulfils that criterion. To provide support for Sofia's candidacy in the conditions of serious competition from 18 Member States, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducted active actions at national and European level. The campaign started officially in the Council of Ministers with the participation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of Health, Mayor of Sofia. Representatives of the state power, the Diplomatic Corps and NGOs were invited. The Ministry of Health held bilateral meetings with the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union in Sofia. An official website with advantages of the Bulgarian application was created, promotional materials were distributed. Bulgarian media were attracted to the country's candidacy. Our application was presented in the permanent representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Brussels. Meetings were held at the highest level in the capitals where support could be sought for the Bulgarian candidacy of Bratislava, Warsaw, Berlin, Brussels, Athens, Zagreb, Bucharest, Copenhagen, to organize which were actively supported by the leaders of the Bulgarian diplomatic missions in the Member States. During the meetings, it was confirmed that Sofia's application to host the EMA will be supported only in cases of reciprocal commitment to the country's candidacy. The final decision to elect an EMA host city was taken by the Member States of the European Union by voting within the General Affairs Council. The expectations of the Member States from Central and Eastern Europe, including Bulgaria, to achieve a geographical balance in the distribution of the agencies' offices, according to the sixth criterion for choice, remained unrealistic. At the same time, other Member States of the European Union: Germany, Cyprus, Denmark, Italy have expressed strong dissatisfaction over the objectivity of the choice. Since we are a Member State of the European Union, Bulgaria has not participated in such a competition in the field of health, so there is no experience gained in this direction. I believe that we must clearly state our positions and desires and defend them. In the European Union, it does not matter whether the state is small or large. All countries have equal weight in making decisions. With the candidacy for EMA Bulgaria for the second time clearly stated what it wanted. We didn't make it. The time we had to prepare and present was short. On the other hand, we have won something very valuable. We have gained experience on how to prepare for such future competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with this answer because it is a chronology of events that is well known. I understand you, too. This answer is from the team that has prepared the campaign and has realized it so that there is no way there to admit their mistakes and nonsense, and participation in this race literally on an Olympic principle. If there was a serious preparation, which we insisted on in 2016, it would not have been possible for the candidacy to be released at the last minute on four flying pages. We've literally embarrassed ourselves from the beginning. I don't know how it's cooked, but when you look at the comparative analysis of what our application is and that of the others, I'll now read you a few things that are black and white. They are part of the Commission's documentation, they are also available on the Internet. Listen to what is missing in our proposal, for example: the proposal does not specify how the envisaged base in Sofia Tech Park is in line with the requirements of the European Medicines Agency. I think that this is a key issue. The proposal does not specify the purity and duration of the flights to Sofia from the European capitals; the proposal does not specify the transport links between the base and the airport; the proposal does not specify the possible number of foreign language training places for the children of the employees. The proposal does not provide information on the financial conditions for the use of the building by the European Medicines Agency, but without deadlines; the proposal does not specify what the employment opportunities of the partners are for the spouse and the employees, respectively; the proposal does not specify how the activities will be carried out during the transition period for the Agency; the proposal does not provide information on the financial conditions for the use of the building by the European Medicines Agency. In comparison, we need to see that Sofia proved to be at the bottom of these rankings, not only because of this, but also for other reasons, and all the praise of the infrastructure and everything that is pointed out here as great successes of Sofia's mayor and development, it turns out that by comparing ourselves with other European capitals, we can see where we are and how far back we are in this regard. So I think that aside from the general finding that we have learned our lessons, I would like to know exactly what lessons have been taught and how. Perhaps I should ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs: how we will do so in the future not to participate in doomed competitions if we are not really ready to fight, and when we are struggling to do it professionally and adequately, and not as it turned out to be, the stupid video that was made in connection with the Agency's candidacy, in which to make an allusion that some orcs live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u225	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, will you use the right to the backrest? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u226	Just a few words. Mr. Vigenin, you're right about what you just said. I was honest enough to say that this was our first attempt, the first race, and we had no experience in this regard. Indeed, when it is running for such an important, large or for any other body related to the European Union, there must be much better preparation, much earlier to begin and our proposal to be in line with absolutely all the requirements that are set before the country that is applying, and, of course, the best possible solutions under these conditions are provided so that we have a chance to win this race. You rightly said that I was not involved in this process and therefore I cannot respond specifically to all those findings that you said in the stands. I hope it will be a lesson to us, and that is why I have finally finished my speech, that at least this presentation will serve as an attempt to gain quality when applying in such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev on the cost of completing the new hospital in Yambol. You're welcome to state the nature of the matter, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Together with the MP Mr. Vigenin, we are again putting an issue of particular importance to the residents not only of the city of Yambol, but also of the whole area, for the resolution of which is required by the ministry, which you are in charge of. Dear Minister, you are aware that in 2012 the ruling GERB Party made a commitment to the citizens of Yambol to provide the necessary funds of 12 million. lv. to complete the building of the new hospital complex in the city with a deadline for putting into service the month March 2014. This is evident from the Treaty between the Ministry of Health and Yambol Municipality. This deadline has long expired, and in several consecutive local and parliamentary elections since 2012 GERB's promises to complete the building of the new hospital is presented as a priority commitment to the citizens of Yambol and the district. It is confirmed that Prime Minister Borisov, on his visit to the city in March 2017, stated a firm commitment the state to provide the necessary 12 million. lv. to finalize the project. Such funds were not allocated target in 2017, nor were they provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018. At the same time, the citizens of Yambol and the district are forced to receive health care in a hospital of a pavilion type, characteristic of long ago times, without looking for ways to finalize the project. In parallel, this deepens the problems with ensuring and preserving the current scope of the medical activities carried out at Yambol Multiprofile Hospital. In this regard, Dear Minister, we would like to ask you: does the Ministry of Health intend to undertake the completion of the new hospital complex in Yambol and, if so, by what means and within what deadlines? What are your views on the services offered in it, and is there a comprehensive plan for improving the quality of health care in Yambol and Yambol district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u229	Thank you, Mr Penev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear Mr. Vigenin and Mr. Penev! The Municipality of Yambol donated to the Ministry of Health the right to property of five buildings located in Yambol from 20 May 2012 to the Ministry of Health. Dr. Dimitar Donchev, representing a new hospital complex consisting of a building, a surgical block, a building, a special purpose building, an estacade, a building for medical gases and a Trafopost building, all at the rough construction stage. The property is imported into the capital of the Hospital.St. Pantalemon...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2012, the Ministry of Health provided 1 million in its capital expenditure budget. Five hundred thousand. lv. for the implementation of the site of the new hospital complex. In 2013, the medical establishment submitted to the Ministry quantitative-value accounts of the activities necessary to complete the facility amounting to 12 million. 413 thousand. BGN 758. with VAT included. So much for what my colleagues have done. I will not go any further, because since yesterday I have very fresh and new information, I have also spoken with the Prime Minister, I have also spoken with the Minister of Finance. "The moment when the tender was held and the value of the object is determined, the money will be transferred. This is also a commitment made by the Prime Minister, I have the guarantee of the Minister of Finance, so there will be no delay. Let the tender process pass, establish what is the real value after it takes place and the resource will be provided immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! In principle, on the one hand, I must say that I am pleased that there is some commitment for the first time really something to be done more seriously. On the other hand, I assume that you yourself do not feel particularly comfortable as a longtime Deputy Minister of Finance, and also a Minister of Finance, when financing such a serious site is done in this way. I can hardly think of what this procedure is, which is being tendered before the funding is secured. Procedure and funds that are promised so wholesale, which are not present in the budget, however, when we find out how much it costs, the father will say: Here you are another 12 million. I don't know what way they're going to be distributed, something will happen, and the money will be found. What has to be done this way? Why is this money not foreseen as an investment expenditure in the budget, which should be the normal way of working? Why, for everything, every promise made here and there, is required by a decision of the Council of Ministers, unknown where, some funds to be distributed further, without the National Assembly having the floor on this issue? Once again, if it goes well, no one will mind. But I object, and our parliamentary group, once again, to plan and distribute funds in this way without being planned in the budget! Because in the end, it turns out that you are realizing our alternative budget, only in the second way, in an opaque way, by decision of the Council of Ministers, you are handing out the funds that we wanted in advance to be laid down as funds in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u233	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u234	Dear Mr. Vigenin, this is not only a promise, but it will happen quite certainly in the nearest days after the contract is over. This is not a vicious method of financing capital expenditure. You know, when we analyse the implementation of the budget each year, that the implementation of capital expenditure amounts to 35 This is precisely because of the old funding model, when we give to everyone in advance, a whole year there are pretending to be some public procurement, at the end of the year we are not realized and then we are criticized that the investment programme has not been implemented. That is why we apply an approach that is applied in many other countries -- you make the procurement, you show what the value is, you guarantee the money from the budget. I don't think this is a vicious practice. This is more effective spending of capital expenditure, because if we had included them and did not become the project itself, this money could have gone for another important project that is waiting, but for this project no resource was provided. That's why I think... Let's stop here in the dispute, the money will be provided, the hospital will have it, there will be one of the 237 points on the new emergency medical project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is once again to the Minister of Health from the National Representatives Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva and Valentin Georgiev Lambev on providing otorinaryngological assistance to the patients from Veliko Tarnovo district. Very specialized terminology in the questions, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ananiev! Obviously, we need to repeat the management model of the health care system and what the Ministry of Health is doing. When a hospital decides to close a ward of its own, it shall make an appropriate request to the Ministry of Health, which shall address an opinion to the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned, which shall give its positive or negative opinion to the Ministry of Health and the Minister shall authorise or not, in principle,. Is that okay, though? Apparently not. What's the specific occasion? The hospital in Veliko Tarnovo decided to close its.. to find out "Usi, nose,............................................................................................... The health ministry should, having given permission to do so, provide the people of the affected regions with available oorinolinological assistance. At the same time, however, the hospital in Elena is closed, at the same time the ward in the hospital in Svishtov is closed, i.e. the distance of people who have to use this kind of assistance is 80 km, and we know that the region of Tarnovo has a mountain part where it is very difficult access, especially winter time. We know that in this type of activity, especially during the winter months, more than 50% of those affected are children who need to be taken care of when they are at their age when there is no longer a companion in the hospital concerned. We know that only the ward in Gorna Oryahovitsa is with three doctors, four nurses and six beds, apparently they cannot provide these 250 000 inhabitants of the region of Tarnovo. Yet the Health Ministry has given its consent. And this is where people from Svishtov came to us, okay, 80 km away is the ward, how do we get our kid to get his tonsils out, when do we go back, where do we sleep? In this regard, I ask you: what has the Ministry of Health done and does it do at all as a strategy for providing a certain type of medical care, in this case in the field of ears, nose, throat diseases in Veliko Tarnovo district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u237	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Associate Professor Yordanov and Mrs. Lecheva! In Veliko Tarnovo, specialized medical care from ear throat diseases is carried out by hospital and outpatient medical facilities. As of 31 December 2017, a total of 17 specialist doctors in ear-nosed diseases were registered in the district of Veliko Tarnovo, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Pavlikeni and Svishtov. Three specialized LKK on ear-nosed diseases were revealed at the Diagnostic Advisory Center "Two" in Veliko Tarnovo and one in Gorna Oryahovitsa. Until 2010, two wards of ear-nosed diseases were operating in the district.... in Veliko Tarnovo and in Gorna Oryahovitsa Hospital. By application dated 27 December 2010, the executive director of the medical establishment requested the closure of the ear-neck disease ward. Motives for this the trend of reduction of patients passed: 2007 455 patients, 2010 - 190 operated patients, 2007 - 455, to 190 in 2010 and useability of beds 44%. According to the permission to carry out medical activities from 2011 until now at the University Hospital Veliko Tarnovo there is no department of Uschi, Nose,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From 2011 to 31 December 2017 in Veliko Tarnovo there is only one department of UNG diseases in Gorna Oryahovitsa Hospital, located 10 km from the district town. By 2015, there are ten beds in the ward, and currently six beds are opened and three specialists work in it. The activities of the ward correspond to the second level of competence, according to the established Medical Standard. For the last three years, the number of patients passing through the ward is relatively constant and in 2015 the patients sought specialized assistance were 300, 2016. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man .. 358. The number of patients operated is also relatively constant and in 2015 the number is 293, 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "329." It is apparent from the analysis of the operation of the compartment that during the three-year period the usability of the exposed six beds is moving within 67%. However, in the second half of 2017, the management of the Hospital Dr. Stefan Cherkezov................................................................................................................................................................... An application has been submitted to RZI "Veliko Tarnovo," for issuing permissions for carrying out medical activities, with disclosure of ENT wards with five beds. Following the ban imposed by the National Assembly on the budget of the NHIF for 2018 on financing of new activities, the management of the Hospital Dr. Stefan Cherkezov, Veliko Tarnovo, deposited in RZI, Veliko Tarnovo, corrected application, withdrawing the request for disclosure of the department of ears, nose and throat diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Your response confirms the fact that in the Ministry of Health the planning of medical activities in health regions is practically absent. What's this about? If it is not the University Hospital in Pleven, which covers one region - 200 km in one country, and 200 km in the other country, the residents of the municipalities and in this Central Northern region of the Republic of Bulgaria will remain without sufficient access and quality medical care. There will be further questions about another kind of medical activity. There are a lot of questions we need to ask. Even the fact that in the Mikre crash, the patients were taken not to the Pleven Hospital 60 km away, but to the Sofia Hospital 120 km away. We want to sharpen the attention. Yes, certain activities cannot exist as a commercial activity, but they must exist because you cannot convince me that when a child has to be taken out of the tonsils, I am talking about a hospital in the municipality of.................................................................................... We just lack the accessibility of medical care and its character as a commercial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u241	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Do you want a hole? No. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Georgiev Mihailov, about the financial situation and the healing plan of the Loveska Hospital. I'm guessing it's about Lovech County Hospital. That's how the question is formulated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the official dissemination of information in recent months about the critical condition of Lovech Hospital. I admire your meetings with the hospital's management and hospital staff, but in the published intentions of the hospital's healing plan, several facts are impressed. I would like to ask you: what is your opinion on the basis of these facts that I am now going to expose? First of all, one of the intentions that was published is that the hospital's common bed fund will be reduced to 150 beds, and that raises several questions. Which of the wards will be doomed to closure!? What will be the structural distribution of the bed fund between the state and private beds in Lovech? What is the ratio in areas that are well funded and, as we all know, and this issue has already been commented in previous statements in directions that are underfunded as a ratio between private and public institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u243	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihaylov, the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment is with nearly 150 years of history. The hospital has been in existence since 1879. It has regional functions and the district of Lovech, which serves a population of about 130 thousand. Souls. During the last year the medical institution performs medical services in 29 medical specialties and 18 wards with a total of 237 beds, five rooms without beds, two medical-diagnostic laboratories. The hospital has a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund on 193 clinical pathways, 19 outpatient procedures and 3 clinical procedures. The problems related to the difficult financial condition of the medical establishment are complex and not a day or two, but many years. The Ministry of Health took concrete actions to preserve the hospital "Professor Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov" AD and will use all legal opportunities, the hospital will continue to work and provide quality medical activities to people in the field. In this connection, Professor Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov was appointed a prosecutor whose task is the implementation of a rescue plan. The same shall be presented to the staff of the medical establishment and shall include the restructuring of compartments and beds, the reduction of administrative maintenance costs and shall provide for the gradual repayment of the overdue debts for a period of 5 years and the exclusion of new ones. A relative maintenance of the activity and revenues of the medical establishment is planned and for this purpose the Ministry of Health is committed to put in service key to the hospital apparatus such as: a scanner and a shoulder (Cze shoulder) of orthopedics. We stress that the hospital has a new and unusable scanner for at least 5 years, and the reasons for this are administrative negligence and poor financial management of the medical establishment. We will take all the legal action that has taken the persons who have engaged and led the hospital to this state to take responsibility. Restructuring is envisaged in the number of beds of 237 now, at 149 or with about 38% reduction and reaching the average useability of the same 60 In addition, medical staff are maintained, with the most significant restructuring of administrative staff with more than 100 people. An optimal ratio of doctors and nurses such as reducing health care professionals is mostly at the expense of retired employees and employees with low workload. Therefore, it will also contribute to the fact that an agreement has been reached with the creditors of the medical establishment to postpone the supports. A clear plan for the distribution of cash flows shall be drawn up and the repayment parameters of the defaults shall be discussed separately with each creditor. We believe that these measures will restore people's trust in the hospital. In addition, an investment project related to the renovation and modernisation of the building fund and the equipment of the emergency aid system will be implemented within the municipality of Lovech in the framework of the Operational Programme. I don't know if I have the time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u245	It ran out a minute ago, if it's important, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u246	I'm looking at a ward of beds and people, but I think we can talk about this operationally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihailov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am satisfied with the data that you so conscientiously presented. My question concerns the overall model, which is being transposed into Lovech region of health and a trend that worries me personally as a specialist. I'll develop it within the next minute. Conditions are being created in the country and the subject, which has been affected several times in the media by members of the ruling coalition, that private hospitals do not strike because they have no losses, have no financial problems. It actually works in my opinion, so the private sector has the opportunity and reveals working units in the area of highly funded healing pathways. Gradually, over time, it will happen that public health institutions, as if they would only have the role to carry out their activities in unattractive areas of clinical medicine. You very well know, as a person who entered very quickly, thanks to your qualification, what were the main problems in these two hospitals. At the entrance of a state hospital is revealed in a profitable direction and clinically private hospital. This merely by optimising the activities, without fulfilling the obligations of the state, to give its contribution in the fields of high-tech medicine and in the field of public health, will not be able to solve the problems and the overall characteristic of this issue was to move the conversation between us that it is really necessary, in my opinion, at least as a specialist in the field of clinical medicine, the launch of a conversation about the model of the health system. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, and Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u249	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. The next question is again from you to Minister Ananiev about the payment of the excess funds to the medical institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. You're welcome to put it on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this time I will carefully read the text of the question, as it is related to certain documents. In letter No 17-01-162 of 5 January 2018, the Bulgarian Medical Union raised the question that according to the Decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF funds were allocated from the reserve for 2017, 187 million respectively. lv. .. 55% of the reserve for medicinal products, and for hospital aid.... 114 million. lv. "33% of the reserve." There is a payment of the funds allocated for medicinal products, which, however, leads to the exhaustion of the reserve and the creation of a real possibility of non-payment of the activities carried out and reported for hospital care. This brings to the only possible decision of the Supervisory Board, once again I allow myself to quote it The same was quoted in letter No 6200-13 of 8 December 2017 and sent by the Executive Director of the NRA. Thus, a discriminatory limit is set against hospital care facilities. With regard to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of the last days and with serious distortions of debalance for the payment of medicinal products to hospital aid, which is also exposed to the overall volume of funds allocated to health by gross domestic product, I would like to hear your opinion as a leader in the sector at the moment on future policy in the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u251	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u252	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, the total cost increase of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 in the course of the year was realized with funds from the reserve of 341 million. 381 thousand. £600. By way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and at the expense of a reduction in the cost of administrative maintenance and capital expenditure of around 4 million. $800,000. lv. These funds have paid for health insurance activities and medicines as follows: Specialized outpatient medical care - 7 million. Two hundred and seventy-seven thousand. lv.; dental aid Eight hundred and seventy-seven thousand. lv.; Medical-diagnostic activity.. 1 million 924 thousand. lv.; medicinal products, medical devices, dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment on the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy in hospital care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services rendered 494 thousand. lv. For medicinal products, medical devices and diet food and for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country 842,000. BGN, including for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under hospital medical care, which NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided. 652,000. lv.; medical devices applied in hospital care.. 18 million 146,000. BGN, and for hospital medical care - 238 million 297 thousand. lv. In the case of planned under Law 798 million. lv. NHIF drugs paid 986 million. lv. or 187 million more costs than provided for in the Law. At 1 billion. 457 million. lv. For hospital aid from the NHIF, 1 billion has been paid. 695 million. lv. Or 238 million. lv. more. The entire legal activity is paid to the health institutions and to medicines, while the parameters of the NHIF Budget Act for 2017. Activities outside the budget parameters and the rules of the NHIF Budget Act cannot be considered as reported activity in the National Health Insurance Fund. The National Health Insurance Fund transferred around 31 million unpaid pharmacies costs from 2017. All other activities have been fully paid out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihailov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your input. My question had and has the following direction, inevitably linked to the increase in funds that are being separated and will be separated from the National Health Insurance Fund, respectively, the law that we vote for it for medicines, as this dictates the development of clinical medicine. That is why I have always been very uncomfortable when accusing exactly oncology directions in clinical medicine, so that, you see, the funds that are always being released from the reserve at the end of each quarter, so far at the end of each year, are mostly in this direction. We had the opportunity to discuss with you yesterday in the Health Commission, and I told you that the forms of control, which are unfortunately reduced in the field of clinical oncology with regard to the discharge of oncology, could lead to regulation of the problem. In my opinion, there is another side to this: the overall budgeting of health care in its condition at the time of a disbalance between payment and opportunities, mostly for the payment of hospital care to medical devices and medicines. Once again, I allow myself to share with you, as my opinion, that it really requires the launch of a serious professional debate on the model of our health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u255	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Do you want a hole? No. [[Department of Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] The Minister agrees with the findings of the MP. This was the last question to the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin to Minister Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture, on the cultural programme of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can almost turn around. Dear Minister, in connection with the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a special emphasis was placed on the opportunity to implement a cultural programme to present Bulgaria to the partners of the European Union and to the world. Along with this 2018 is the European Year of Cultural Heritage, which gives additional opportunities for a strong and visible cultural calendar. The government guarantees funding with an estimated amount of 4 million. BGN, which makes possible an ambitious cultural program, of which the amount of 1 million is provided for events in the country. 840,000. lv. However, the review of the project winners gives the impression of a lack of focus. In social media some of the projects sparked reasonable doubts and comments regarding their adequacy and artistic value. Issues arose regarding the lack of the necessary transparency in the work of the National Fund of Culture and, in particular, the committee evaluating the projects. I realize that my questions got a little out of date a month later, but I think they're still important. So: what is the reason for the absence of a comprehensive concept of the cultural programme during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union? Do you think that the proposed approved projects meet the objectives set out in the Council of Ministers' decision to adopt a cultural programme of the Presidency? Do you intend to enhance transparency in the realization of the cultural calendar in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u257	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Vigenin! In answer to your question, I will inform you of the following. The General Framework of the Cultural Program of the Bulgarian Presidency was adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers in July 2017. The Cultural Program of the Bulgarian Presidency aims to present the Bulgarian culture and cultural heritage as part of the European and world culture and cultural heritage, to integrate and present through art and culture main topics on the agenda of the Bulgarian Presidency, bringing them closer to the citizens, to confirm the positive image of Bulgaria through the achievements of our national culture in the long term, creating a positive effect on other sectors, seeking added value and opportunities to strengthen the country's tourist potential and to create opportunities for strengthening the cultural cooperation and dialogue at European level. The program is in line with the specific messages of the trio Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria with a contribution to the European Year of Cultural Heritage 2018; Sofia "European Capital of Sport 2018, and a shared vision for Plovdiv "European Capital of Culture 2019." The cultural program has two focuss of realization and national and international. The events cover a wide range of areas: material and intangible cultural heritage, literature, visual arts, applied arts, performing arts, music, dance, theatre, audiovisual, feature, documentary and animated films, other audiovisual products and new media. The program is implemented by the Bulgarian Cultural Institute and operators, as well as through Bulgaria's focused participation in international cultural events in partnership with the network of national cultural institutes in Europe, the network of European cultural capitals and other strategic partners. In implementation of the decision of the Council of Ministers for the adoption of a cultural programme of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union, the Management Board of the National Fund. Regulation No H-5 of June 2017 on the terms and conditions for holding competitions for the provision of funds from the National Fund of Culture. The criteria under which all projects are assessed are set out. Additional criteria have also been added to these regulatoryly defined criteria. The Ministry of the European Parliament has made a mandatory condition that the events have a free entrance. Respectable artists, professors, critics were placed for participation in the Commission. In the selection of the Commission, the condition that members are not involved in the submitted projects was met. The panel sought to include in its choice the arts of all genres and regions of the country. Open-air events were preferred, suggesting greater attendance. The overall evaluation of the projects was carried out in two stages by an expert committee appointed by the Governing Council to conduct the contest and an evaluation by the Board of Governors. The results are published on the website of the National Fund of Culture, together with the reasons for them. The composition of the Governing Council of the Fund has made a final decision, the programme is also announced on the Fund's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, the information you have presented to us is correct. It is also located on the sites of information publications, of the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, it did not address the very problem that was created at the end of last year. I stress that my idea to ask this question is primarily related to the possibility to make some clarifications relating to the questions raised by members of the evaluation committee, who left it with a negative assessment, of course, of its activity. It also seems to me that..........................................................................................................I am wrong................................................................................................................................................ I may have missed, but I didn't see an approved project related to this event. I saw that there is an approved project that will present 50 significant figures of Jewish origin related to Bulgaria, but this is something different. However, the 75th anniversary of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews is something that is one of the achievements of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian society in some difficult years and continues to be an example today. I only give it as a specific reason for my doubts that part of the goals that the government has set in relation to the cultural programme seems to me that they will not be achieved. Otherwise, I wish success to all who have won the projects. I hope that they will be appreciated by dignity and that Bulgaria will really be presented with dignity, both here in Bulgaria and in the initiatives provided for in the European capitals and abroad at all. I also count that at the end of the Presidency, in addition to the appreciation of the achievements of the Presidency itself, there will be some form of report not only financially but also meaningful about what the success of the cultural programme of the Presidency was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u261	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Vigenin! I will only mention that the funding requests were worth 17 million. BGN, that is, ten times, ten times more than the sum. The projects submitted for funding were 500 almost. They've approved 50. You understand that under these conditions there will always be people who will feel underappreciated, perhaps in many places correctly. There will always be comments on whether one project has been better than another, but just at this ratio of ten to one and as money, and as submitted projects, believe me, the work of the Commission has been extremely difficult. Of course, we will prepare a full report as well as filming all the events financed under this Programme. We are currently monitoring the way preparations for these events are taking place. There is much more I can say in this direction, but with the greatest respect: thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He's with the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. The question is from the MP Rumen Vassilev Gechev on foreign direct investments in Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u264	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Dear colleague Karanikolov! My question is this: Foreign direct investments can and must play a key role in speeding up economic growth, technological renewal and increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. In this regard, I ask for your answer to the following: what is the size and industry structure of direct foreign investments in Bulgaria over the last three years? What are the reasons for the dramatic decline? What is the role and responsibility of the Bulgarian Investment Agency in this process? What is the Ministry's strategy to overcome this negative trend? With what tools and within what deadlines will it be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u265	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, data on foreign direct investment are reported by the Bulgarian National Bank according to a methodology published on its website. At present, preliminary data have been published for January 2017 on the amount of direct investment in the country, amounting to 855.5 million. EUR at 912 million EUR vis-à-vis January (October 2016) In October 2017, direct investments increased by 96.6 million. EUR at a decrease of 112 million Euros for October 2016. This could be explained, you know, there were elections in the country that continued until the formation of the current government, and this slowed the pace of investors. At such moments, you know, investors are waiting to see what the situation will be like - whether there will be a stable government or not. That's just pointing it out. The last published preliminary data on the sector for January 2017 nearly half of the investments attracted during that period, namely 47,92%, are in the processing industry. It is known that the projects in the processing industry are of a long-term horizon and strategic nature and have a significant impact on the growth of economic development. For the last three full years, for which data are available on the website of the Bulgarian National Bank, namely 2014 - 2016, I repeat, full years, a total of 4.3 billion have been reported. EUR direct foreign investment. In 2015, a record level of foreign direct investment of 2.48 billion was reached. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Euros. One reason for the lower values is due to the reporting methodology according to which annual data are revised to 15 months after the reporting period. The final data often differ significantly from the preliminary data, which makes it not recommended to compare the preliminary data with the final data. We should also bear in mind that the data do not take into account the increase in Bulgarian investments and the expansion of the already existing foreign and Bulgarian investments in the country. The structure of foreign direct investment is important because it can conclude whether cash flows are towards sustainable economic activity. The largest share of foreign direct investment for the period 2014 In the manufacturing industry, 9,44% of the investments were made and record high investments were attracted in 2015. Their share is 20,46% and their absolute value in terms is 531 million. Euros. This trend is also confirmed by the number of projects that received certification under the Investment Promotion Act. 31 certificates were issued in 2017. The total investment envisaged by the projects amounted to 311 million. lv. and account is taken of the creation of 5850 jobs, 15 of the projects, which is extremely important, are carried out in high-tech industries and services and are distributed in different areas of the country. So far, you know, the trend has been mainly logistics and has focused mainly on certain centers in Bulgaria. As a comparison, 24 projects were certified in 2016 and 24 projects were certified in 2015. Only 12. The potential projects on which the Bulgarian Investment Agency is working are currently 28 with indicative value of investments 1.26... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm gonna ask for another minute, I'm sorry. It's about things, I apologize. About 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee Most of the half are high-tech. We take a significant interest in Bulgaria as an investment destination, especially in production and business services with high added value. The promotion measures proposed by Bulgaria are specific and they are competitive against those offered by the countries in Central and Eastern Europe. In order to measure the economic effect of investments, only one indicator could be used for foreign investment. We also monitor reporting from the National Statistical Institute dimensions for investments in the economy, gross capital formation of basic capital and costs for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets. In addition to the interest of new investors, there is a tendency to expand the presence of already established investments in Bulgaria. This is a sign of confidence for investors and a good investment climate. The initiative and marketing, which is carried out by Bulgaria, are of key importance for increasing foreign direct investment. Bulgaria is one of the most competitive investment destinations in Europe. The aim of providing locations and investment opportunities is to attract new strategic investors. The main instrument through which the Bulgarian Investment Agency will support the implementation of the investment strategy prepared in 2016 is through the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" where the Bulgarian Investment Agency is a beneficiary. The total budget of the two projects is close to 10 million. lv. Because there's a lot left, you'll get an official answer. I only draw attention to the following: the investments, which are gross capital formation of the core capital for the period January 2017 according to preliminary data of the National Statistical Institute, amount to 13,38 billion. BGN, which represents 18.79 per cent of gross domestic product, which is 954 million more than the same period for 2016. Investments as costs for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets amount to 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Here I would just like to thank the legislature for your swift action under the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. After your quick sanction, I hope that a large investment will be announced in Bulgaria very soon. Thank you, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u267	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and for reading the role of Parliament. Here you are, Professor Gechev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Karanikolov, this is how it is done.. You have been a recent minister of economy for several months, but, what to do? Inheritation is hard because the facts are what? In 2007 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Before the crisis, foreign investment in Bulgaria is almost 9 billion euros! In 2017, from January to October, 2016, 2015 the Bulgarian economy has been taking its toll for years, about a billion more, a little below, foreign investments - 90%, nine times, colossal, dramatic difference, i.e. foreign investors are currently writing to us. The locals like us, pat on the shoulder, meetings in Europe, but there's no money. Foreign investors go to neighbouring countries 90% difference! Secondly, of the money that comes here, you correctly pointed out the 913 million. EUR from January to October, 678 million euros are in debt instruments. What's this about? In share capital, what is the amount of EUR 150 million remaining in 2017 at 590 million in the same period of the previous year? As they say, rather than getting worse, it's getting more tragic! Second, with regard to reinvested profits, January 2016: 364 million Euros are reinvested. January "October 2017, these are all BNB data, there are only 28 million. Note: 364 million reinvested last year, the same period, 28 million this year. That is, the money flies away from Bulgaria and is not invested. The question arises: Is it so in other countries and nations? It's not like that! I take one country - Serbia, which is from our rug, is not a member of the European Union, there are no European funds, they do not caress them on the heads of popes and prime ministers, but people have 6.2 foreign investments in percentage against gross domestic product. We have 2.4 in Bulgaria. Not to quote other countries, but Serbs have 6.2! I correctly calculated the difference in gross domestic product per capita. Thank God we're better at 40% is the difference. I calculated the gross domestic product per capita and the share of foreign investment, and we are still almost twice as bad as Serbia. What more can we say?! And what is the problem now: to forget the government telling us how low taxes attracted foreign investment. The countries with the highest taxes to companies have developing countries, the largest foreign investments, as tax cannot be the only indicator. And in conclusion, what is the cause of this tragedy? First, there is no long-term economic policy in a series of Bulgarian governments. We do not know how the Bulgarian economy will develop and if we do not have such a priority system, there is no way the Ministry of Economy will make investment priorities. What will the Minister of Economy do, what priorities will he make to investment, with no system scheduled and with quantitative indicators, not with a collection of dreams that are published? Secondly, there will be no foreign investment until markets are unblocked, where Bulgaria could be co-operating with Russia, China, India. While we serve others, we will be imprisoned here and we will be worse off than neighbouring Serbia, which is not a member of the European Union. Next, there will be no changes in foreign investment, we will crawl around a billion a year, while in Bulgaria, I suppose and my colleague is convinced, we do not have at least two or three major investment projects. We, painting benches, kindergartens and road mending will not attract foreign investment. Here we need large, industrial projects, tailored to the competitive advantages of Bulgaria. Here we need large investment projects in energy, which we have also left behind, so investment is in a tragic state, because with this management we do not know where we are going and with what means. And that is why, colleague, I do not envy you, because your task is very difficult, but I wish you success, because we are both convinced that if we do not attract additional foreign investment, the problem is not only in financial resources, these are new technologies, these are access to new markets, we will remain in Europe's tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-19.u269	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You have the word for the dot. You won't take advantage of it. I also think that the comment after your exhibition, and after the reply of the MP, is unnecessary. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. The next National Assembly meeting is on Tuesday at 1300 p.m. with an agenda: The debate on the government's no-confidence vote. Thank you, honourable Members. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
