ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for September 14, 2018: 1. Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, and Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, and Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. 2. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2016 and Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2017. The Supreme Judicial Council was the importer on 31 May 2017 and 30 May 2018. 3. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2016 and Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2017. Import is the Supreme Judicial Council on 21 June 2017 and 22 June 2018. 4. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2016 and Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017. Import is the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017 and 30 May 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. 7. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the importer. 8. First vote on the Bill amending the Commercial Law. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. 9. New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018 returned for a new discussion with Decree No 201 of 31 July 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Aleksandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018. He was accepted at the first vote on 26 July 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 13 September 2018 11. Parliamentary control. Vote 197 MPs: 139 against 5, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we opposition are quite puzzled and surprised why there are no long-proclaimed changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers on the agenda. It is quite normal to start working today, perhaps with one of the most important points. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] How many coalition councils must be held to make it clear whether there will be changes in the Council of Ministers? They were blue helmets, green helmets, but in the end you can see that here, on this agenda for this week, there is still no change in the composition of the Council of Ministers. Of course, I want to be correct. I put this issue to the Conference of Presidents and the President said that there is still no act of the Council of Ministers to be tabled. Does that mean there's some hesitation in the Council of Ministers? [[Noise and lines: "Eee!" by GERB.]] You ladies and gentlemen will not escape this debate because we are ready for this debate! Because what happens to have one such delay is quite strange. Madam President, if you are really sure that there will be changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers, let them be added so that we do not vote every day a change in the National Assembly's Programme! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Noise and lines.]] Let me get this straight. The Conference of Presidents covered this issue, but we do not yet have an act submitted by the Council of Ministers. If I had included the point in advance, you would have said: why didn't there be such an act, and you included the point? We're waiting, Mr. Stoinev! We have specified that tomorrow, as a second item on Parliament's agenda, there will be a point of resignation and appointment of new ministers. I can't do it without an act. Don't make me break the rules! Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In fact, I asked the procedure before you so clearly, specifically, I would say legally, according to our Rules, to explain to your colleague [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] his ignorance of the Rules of Procedure. This is unacceptable! If he wanted to ask when to stay 20 people from BSP, it is obvious that when he sees the agenda, there can be 20 people and others to go and communicate with people. After all, it's their first time! Thank you. [[Applause, noise and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We continue with messages. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor.]] Let me just read the messages. Mr. Velchev made a statement and then you. Draft and draft resolutions from 5 September 2018 to 11 September 2018: A bill amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Messages: On 7 September 2018, the National Assembly adopted on 21 August 2018 reports on the implementation of the Decision by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Financial Supervision Commission were received in the National Assembly on the withdrawal of the Insurance Act of the Cypriot Insurance Company Olympic Insurance Co Ltd, adopted by the National Assembly on 21 August 2018. The reports are provided to the parliamentary groups, sent to the MPs of their service e-mails and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria that for participation in rotational preparation in the training center of the US forces Hoenfells, Germany, for the period from 5 September 2018 to 2 October 2018 he authorised the dispatch of military and civilian personnel from the armed force of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment and equipment. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 5 September 2018, with entry No 803-09-50, and was made available to the Defence Committee. On 7 and 11 September 2018, letters were received from the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informing the National Assembly that: 1. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna from 21 to 24 September 2018 including a ship of the composition of the French Navy. The ship's visit is unofficial and peaceful. 2. In implementation of the bilateral cooperation plan between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for 2018 on 11 September 2018, with reserve days 12, 13 and 14 September 2018, joint Bulgarian-Greek flights will be held. In this regard, an order is permitted: - the participation of forces and funds from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria in a composition of 5 aircraft, of which one military transport, with their crews and, where necessary, up to 50 military engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no equipment for providing technical assistance to aircraft in the territory of the Hellenic Republic; - the passage and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 aircraft from the Air Force of the Hellenic Republic with their crews and their statutory weapons, and if necessary up to 50 military engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no equipment for providing technical assistance to aircraft in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. In the implementation of the bilateral cooperation plan between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Romania for 2018 from 17 to 19 September 2018, with a back-up day from 17 to 21 September 2018, a joint Bulgarian-Romanian exercise will be held, including a computer simulation of the same. In this regard, an order is permitted: - the participation of forces and funds from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria in a composition of 4 aircraft with their crews and up to two servicemen in Bucharest, and if necessary up to 50 military engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no equipment to provide technical assistance to aircraft in the territory of Romania; - the passage and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of forces and funds from the Air Force of Romania.. 5 aircraft, of which 1 military transport, with their crews and up to 2 servicemen in Sofia, and if necessary up to 50 military engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no equipment for providing technical assistance to aircraft in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The visit of the ship, the Bulgarian-Greek flights and the Bulgarian-Romanian teachings are not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, to another State or organisation of armed forces. The notifications were received with input numbers: 803-09-51; 803-09-52; 803-09-53 and provided to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2018; labour productivity, employed persons and time spent for the second quarter of 2018; turnover indexes in the section The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsonev. Then we have statements from Mr. Velchev and Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President, this is exactly what my procedure is about. I would like to remind you that you must follow the rules. It is not stated in the Rules that you define the order in which the speeches are to take place, but in the order in which the applications are to be submitted. As far as you are not doing this for the first time, in this case I am talking specifically about this declaration, I think that we were the first to submit the application for a declaration before Mr. Velchev because we saw that there is no such request filed in the Chamber. I remind you that you did the same during the extraordinary session, when there was no request from the parliamentary group of GERB, you gave a declaration first to the parliamentary group of GERB and then to the parliamentary group of DPS. These things matter. The requests for speech and order are not defined at a meeting of the parliamentary groups neither GERB nor any party, first. Secondly, this is done in this Chamber and you must follow these rules. I appeal to you to follow it. The first request was ours, and that matters. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. You're wrong. The application was submitted by Mr. Velchev. He is sitting in the back row and I did not note that he has applied, but I nodded to him, so you have no reason for criticism. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On September 10th, the Jewish people celebrated their festival Rosh and Shana on the coming of 5779 on the Jewish calendar. In this regard, I have the honour and pleasure on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group to most heartily congratulate all Bulgarian Jews with the big holiday related to spiritual renewal. This is a celebration that marks the beginning of the ten most important days of the year of the Jewish people... the days of repentance. In these Jewishly revered days, when by the sacred Yom Kippur the Day of Atonement, everyone has the opportunity to rethink their deeds and change their way, with the symbol of the power of the human spirit, the days of looking into themselves, the days of forgiveness and mercy. In their centuries-old cohabitation, the Bulgarian and Jewish people shared a common destiny for the sake of their country, shared both grief and joy. There are many dramatic moments in our history when Bulgarians and Jews, side by side, together have defended the Bulgarian flag, and the humane procession of the Bulgarian people against the Echelons of Death turned the Bulgarian flag into an insurmountable shield, saving thousands of lives. Each time we turn to the past, we learn an important lesson that when we are united and irreconcilable against evil, fanaticism, aggression, xenophobia, hate language, then we are strong and invincible. [[Private applause from DPS.]] If we want to be a decent society, we need tolerance, mutual understanding and respect between different religions, because each religion enriches us with the derived ideals of justice, love, and good. That should be our direction, for no matter what we say, what language we speak, what faith we confess, all of this excites every single human heart. Only together as we move forward can we make our common home Bulgaria a better place to live. I wish our brothers and sisters health, peace and prosperity! Let the New Year be recorded as successful and good in the Book of Life. Shana That, Jewish brothers! And may God protect Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms." The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is strongly condemning the vandalism of 6 September versus 7 September this year, when Muslim graves in Dobrich were violated. This consecutive act of the ruling nationalism and xenophobia is clear evidence of a crisis of democracy and statehood, a clear provocation against the Bulgarian ethnic model, which guarantees peace and stability in the country and the region. The leaders of the largest political party were silent, as they were silent, and when elderly people were pushed and dragged to the border on the eve of the elections last year, as they were silent when decisions were adopted to change the names of the localities, as they were silent when threats were being thrown out of our homes, when they denied us the right to be part of the nation. No, they don't just keep quiet. They have given power to these forces, without realizing the serious consequences for the country, for the country, for the nation. Their silence is not just guilty, their silence is not just a fruit of short memory and a lack of vision, it is unstately and disrupting the foundations of democracy and peace. The peaceful transition from the beginning of democracy is the greatest conquest in our recent history and this is due to the Bulgarian ethnic model, whose ideologist and founder of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is Dr. Ahmed Dogan. It is the duty of all democratic parties today to preserve peace and protect democracy, to make sense of the motto of the Union in a way that guarantees peace and democracy in the country, our European future and prosperity. We call on all state authorities and institutions to condemn the vandal act and similar manifestations, and the competent authorities to immediately take all necessary action to detect the perpetrators and to enforce the law in all its strictness. When we talk about perpetrators, let us know that this is also about provocators. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, everyone concerned with democracy and peace in the country and the region must say a firm and firm statement of any manifestation of such disgraceful acts of vandalism, of any form of hatred and xenophobia, of division and opposition. Today, all democratic forces must say firmly and firmly........ to the rights and freedoms of citizens, to tolerance, to universal human and European values, to democracy and to peace. Today, all of us in the legislative body in the state must clearly take account of the urgent legal decisions. When the government is occupied only by how to preserve power, statehood is erotic, democracy is in crisis, citizens' rights and freedoms are under threat, the value system is compromised. We are all hostages to the battles in the ruling coalition or rather the ruling party. Only united and united goals in the name of peace and democracy can we be calm about the tomorrow of all Bulgarian citizens. All of us who swore on behalf of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria have this duty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. We continue with the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL OF BULGARIA FOR 2016 AND AN ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL OF BULGARIA FOR 2016, AND AN ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL OF BULGARIA FOR 2017 AND AN ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL OF BULGARIA FOR 2017 Importer: Supreme Judicial Council on 9 August 2017 and 5 June 2018. Please, Mr. Kirilov, give us the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting to your attention an opinion on this report, please ask for a procedure for admission to all reports....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Please vote for the admission of the listed ladies and gentlemen. Vote 150 MPs: 148, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u14	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria 2016 and the Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 711-00-10, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria on 9 August 2017, and the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 811-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 June 2018. At its meeting held on 25 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the above-mentioned annual reports on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and 2017 and the annual reports on the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and 2017. The meeting was attended by: from the Supreme Judicial Council Mrs. Tsvetinka Pashkunova, member of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chairman of the Commission on Legal and Institutional Affairs at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and spokesperson of the Judicial College, and Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Ignat Georgiev. The reports on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 and 2017 were presented by Mrs. Tsvetinka Pashkunova and in the part concerning the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 and for 2017 were presented by Mr. Ignat Georgiev. The reports of the Supreme Judicial Council shall contain a review of its policies, as well as detailed information on the functions performed by the Supreme Judicial Council and regulated by the Constitution, the Judicial Authority Act and the regulations relevant to the judicial system. Ms. Pashkunova pointed out that the 2016 and 2017 reports are the years of very substantial structural and functional changes and reforms in the Supreme Judicial Council, which result from the constitutional changes in 2015 and the amendments and additions to the Judiciary Act in April and August 2016. It was pointed out that it was essential to establish the Committee on attestations and competitions involving representatives of the professional community as well as the new procedure for the selection of the current composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, which was elected by the professional quota by direct election and qualified majority of the members of the parliamentary quota. The reports shall contain separate structural divisions on the management of human resources in the judiciary, the management of the judiciary budget, the conduct of competition procedures for promotion, relocation and initial appointment, as well as competition procedures for the selection of administrative directors, e-Justice, professional qualifications, professional ethics and the prevention of corruption, prevention and establishment of conflict of interest, disciplinary activity and interaction with the Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council, public communication and international activities of the Council. Ms. Pashkunova noted that the main problems outlined in both annual reports for 2016 and 2017 point to difficulties which are currently related to the measurement of workload, which is a basic criterion and indicator related to the determination of human resources in the judiciary bodies. The aim is to regulate in an objective and fair manner the workload of magistrates by optimizing, as the state by reducing the number of judges and prosecutors in the lower courts and prosecutors, and thus revealing a state in the busier ones, such as the Sofia District Court and the Sofia City Court, and prosecutions. At present, a complex of measures has been outlined, which also includes legislative changes to regulate the conviction in a certain number and type of cases so as to unload higher courts and prosecutors, and therefore to burden those with lower workloads. It is also intended to be implemented by the introduction of electronic justice, as well as by electronic processing and distribution of order procedures and by the establishment of a single information court system. The information provided in the two reports concerning the announced and carried out competition procedures for promotion, relocation and initial appointment, as well as the statistics relating to the competition procedures for the administrative directors covered by the election of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, as well as the Director of the National Investigation Service. The reports also provide details of the attestation procedures carried out in 2016, which were carried out on the basis of a methodology for the attestation of judges, prosecutors and investigators, and at present they are in line with the two new regulations on indicators, methodology and criteria for the attestation of judges and respectively prosecutors and investigators after the establishment of the two colleges. The number of disciplinary proceedings initiated against magistrates and the way in which they have ended have also been reported. In conclusion, Mrs. Pashkunova noted that the Supreme Judicial Council is working to increase the confidence of the public by improving coordination and communication with the judicial authorities, as well as increasing the legal culture of the citizens, among the extremely successful initiatives are the educational program "Judicial authority," informed choice and civic trust "and the open doors in the Supreme Judicial Council and the judicial authorities." The activities of the Supreme Judicial Council related to international cooperation, the periodic reports under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism of the European Commission, as well as the participation of members of the Supreme Judicial Council in project teams of the European Judicial Council Network, are also important. The annual activity reports of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 and 2017 shall contain information on the implementation of the tasks relating to its main and permanent priorities set in accordance with its legal powers. The information is structured in separate sections concerning: complex planning checks; thematic checks; control checks; accidental checks, based on self-secution and received signals; accidental checks commissioned by the Supreme Judicial Council outside the annual programme of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council; files formed by signals, complaints and requests; signals made and suggestions made by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to other state bodies; the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council in connection with the alerting of the relevant bodies in the course of established conflicting case-law; the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council on the establishment of infringements of the right to examine and resolve cases within a reasonable period; disciplinary practice; the interaction with the Supreme Judicial Council and the international cooperation of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council in the implementation of its annual programmes for 2016 and 2017 has carried out checks on 152 judicial authorities: 104 courts and 48 prosecutors and district investigation services in the five appeals areas. In 2016, the Inspectorate carried out 102 complex planner checks, of which 40 are in the courts in civil, commercial and administrative matters, 31 in the courts in criminal cases, and 31 in the prosecutions. In all verified courts, prosecutions and prosecutions have been found both positive and negative trends, generally positive trends are that respect is respected art. 9 of the Law on the Judiciary and the distribution of cases and files is carried out on the principle of random selection by electronic distribution, according to the order of admission of the materials of the cases. Mr. Georgiev noted that the negative trends were generally reduced to increasing the pending cases at the end of the periods examined, and in individual cases the complaints and claims were established to be left without movement by the distribution agents before their formation in cases. For prosecutions, the most common findings in the inspection acts are for delayed investigation of pre-trial proceedings in some of the prosecutions and insufficient supervision and control by the monitoring prosecutors regarding the suspended proceedings due to the failure to disclose the perpetrators. For all these negative trends and findings, the relevant recommendations have been given and most often the administrative heads of the relevant authorities have implemented the recommendations given, returning implementation information. In addition to the complex planning checks, the Inspectorate also examines signals from citizens and organizations regarding violations committed by magistrates in the course of their activities. In total, 3975 alerts were examined for the two years 2016 and 2017, and 189 were considered to be the presence of the infringements alleged in the alerts and appropriate recommendations were made to take measures to the administrative directors of the judicial authorities. The recommendations are generally in three main groups. They are for taking disciplinary measures and imposing disciplinary penalties by the administrative leaders in respect of magistrates; also recommendations for overcoming certain infringements of procedural deadlines in specific cases and speeding up judicial action; and the third group recommendations are for improving certain elements of the organisation of administrative activities in the judicial authorities. Another element of the activity described in the reporting reports is that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council examines the signals and requests of citizens to establish infringements of the right to deal with cases within a reasonable period of time. During this period, a total of 1072 applications were examined and 729 consolidated minutes and opinions detailed in the reports were drawn up. According to information from the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the Inspectorate's findings for the reported period, the Ministry of Justice has concluded a total of 481 agreements to compensate for delays in justice by paying an amount of 1 million. 155,000. BGN 548. to the victims of these delays. As of 1 January 2017, the new powers conferred on the Inspectorate are in force with the latest amendment of the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary, namely the activity of checking the property declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators and the activity of integrity checks, conflict of interest and the establishment of actions which undermine the prestige of the judiciary, and inspections relating to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. As regards the verification of the property declarations, in 2017, the persons obliged to submit declarations were 4292 judges, prosecutors and investigators, with four magistrates not submitting declarations, 25 were filed outside the established deadlines, and the relevant administrative criminal provisions were applied to them and sanctioned by the relevant criminal decrees. Mr. Georgiev welcomed the legislative change in the Law on the Judiciary in force on 12 June 2018 and the opportunity provided by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to be able to obtain information from the information systems and to be able to request the disclosure of a bank secret from the district court in whose area the permanent address of the person is. As regards integrity checks in 2017, a total of 79 files were formed on alerts containing allegations of conflict of interest, violations of integrity and actions that undermine the prestige of the judiciary. The practice so far shows that a large part of the alerts coming in this order contain only allegations of infringements without the specific time, place of action, or circumstances under which the infringements were committed if such a breach occurred at all. It was pointed out that regarding the referral of the competent authorities to commit disciplinary liability of magistrates in cases of detected violations of their activities, in 2016, the Inspectorate of the SJC made a proposal for disciplinary punishment to the Supreme Judicial Council, 53 recommendations, proposals and signals to administrative managers for disciplinary penalties. Mr. Georgiev noted that in 2017, the Inspectorate made 15 proposals to the Supreme Judicial Council for the formation of disciplinary proceedings against the respective magistrates, for whom he accepted that they committed relevant violations under the Law on the Judiciary, apart from which the Inspectorate made 45 recommendations to administrative leaders for imposing disciplinary penalties and seven further recommendations for imposing disciplinary measures. During the discussion took part the MPs Krum Zarkov and Danail Kirilov. In response to the question asked by Mr. Zarkov, representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate said that no difficulties were found in the relations between the Inspectorate and the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his support for the annual reports and noted that, according to him, the most important fact is the election of the new members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the Supreme Judicial and Prosecutor's quota under the new rules, calling for the continuation of good interaction between the judiciary and the MPs with regard to legislative initiatives relating to the judiciary, and called for the continuation of the Judicial Card and the workload. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria supported an Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and an Annual Report on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 711 00-10, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 9 August 2017, as well as an Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and an Annual Report on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 811 Project! DECISION adopting an Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 Project! DECISION adopting an annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2017. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. On the basis of art. 90, para. 6, Mr. Magdalenchev, you have the floor to present the reports to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u16	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I thank you on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Council for the opportunity to participate in the discussion of the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 and 2017. Both reports, and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for the same years. The two reports are presented to the Members of the National Assembly and contain detailed information on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council during those two years and of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for the same years. They fully state the information on the restructuring of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2016 as a result of the constitutional changes adopted by the National Assembly in December 2015 and the subsequent legislative amendments in 2016. "The month of April and the month of August of the same year. The activities of all committees are reported as supporting bodies of the Supreme Judicial Council, including the activities of both colleges and the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council as a collective body. The reports, which are also discussed before the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully and fully discussed the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. There is nothing more to add to these reports. If there are any questions from the MPs on the 2016 and 2017 reports of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate, I see that Mrs. Tochkova has now entered the Chamber, I am ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u17	Thank you, too. Colleagues, I am opening the debates on the annual reports on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016 and 2017. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u18	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the judiciary! The moments of discussion of these reports are moments of debate "on the relation of the National Assembly to one of the key topics that excite our society and state, namely the development of the judiciary, more known recently as judicial reform. The reports are available for 2016 and 2017. This accumulation of reports, on the one hand, shows some delays in the way Parliament is working on this matter, on the other hand, enables the results to be compared two years in a row. The first finding we need to make is that the problems of one year in one report are transferred to the next report and remain resolved for the next year. The reports are quite detailed and explain in them what the Supreme Judicial Council is doing, respectively the Inspectorate on the specified topics, which are mentioned to him by law, how many meetings, what decisions. From this point of view, there is no reason not to be accepted because they are intended for information, this was also the debate we had in the Legal Commission. But here we need to appreciate the actions of the Supreme Judicial Council and the results of its actions. This is about two different compositions of the Supreme Judicial Council. With regard to the past term of the Supreme Judicial Council, assessments were given a lot and most of them were negative. He could not get out of the scandals and rise to the height of the challenges that were put on him. For the new Supreme Judicial Council, it is still early to say. There's some comfort in his work. We hope this will continue, but concrete measures are still pending. However, judicial reform cannot be carried out without the political will of the National Assembly and of the government and its supporting majority. And here is the place to say that no report of the Supreme Judicial Council and hundreds of meetings of its various committees can compensate for the inertness of the Ministry of Justice in the last year and a half. The necessary legislative initiatives are missing, we remain only at the level of the findings. There is no energy and the Council's periodic gatherings on the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform remain without a concrete result. It is no coincidence that most of the procedural laws that we are dealing with here are key in both civil proceedings and administrative proceedings by lawmakers. This hole, this lack of initiative of the Ministry of Justice cannot be forgiven, and it must be expressed. We will therefore refrain from supporting these reports, as a political sign that for us judicial reform is far from complete, that it requires concrete and urgent measures to provide judges, prosecutors, system inspectors with an opportunity to do their job, and finally start restoring citizens' trust in our justice system. This, once again, is not just the work of the institutions that are here today in this House. This is the work of the political majority, it takes ideas and it takes courage. We state that in the current configuration of parliament there is neither. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Zarkov, I did not want in the form of a reply, I wanted to make a separate statement, but I cannot help but object to the claims you made in your statement, and I will start backwards. The amendments to the Civil Procedure Code on Conviction protected and the delicate responsibility were tabled by you as a Member of the National Assembly, and were borrowed from our proposal from a year ago, which we discussed in the large format of amendment and addition to the Civil Procedure Code. Where did you see the inability of this National Assembly to discuss and accept these changes after the government supported even your bill without regard to political initiative, without regard to political debate? We supported it mainly because the members of the Supreme Judicial Council stood firm behind this proposal, together with the judges of the Sofia City Court. In practice, you reject something objective that took place immediately a few months ago. The delay in the two reports, I take it as a reproach to me. During the last calendar year, we did not discuss the 2016 Report due to overload. Here I would add, it is true that the reports and bodies of the judiciary are different, but, if you remember, in December we made the first application of the procedure for dialogue with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the judicial reform that it is not over, I will speak separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, I do not agree and I cannot understand the logic in your speech regarding the annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate to it to involve the Ministry of Justice? Moreover, even this finding, which you have reached, that the Ministry of Justice was not engaged in legislative activity in the field of procedural law, I consider absolutely false. Let us just remember that one of the first procedural laws, which was amended and supplemented, was the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was introduced precisely by the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the other procedural laws, I hope you do not deny the right, guaranteed in the Constitution, of the legislative initiative of the Members of the National Assembly. As far as judicial reform is concerned, I would remind you that the Ministry of Justice, as I recall, submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, which was also examined and adopted by this National Assembly. It is clear to us all that judicial reform is a continuing process. It is not limited and is not limited. Moreover, I believe that much of the changes that were made in 2015 in the Commission, subsequently in the Judicial Law, are a decisive and correct step in implementing this reform, and from now on we should rather focus our efforts on the implementation of these constitutional and legal norms that were adopted at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen replicating! That is correct, Mr. Chairman of the Legal Commission, you have paid attention to the Civil Procedure Code tabled by me and colleagues from the BSP. It is an example of how key issues? this issue related to the workload of one of our most important courts can be solved with clear, precise, measured measures without unnecessary politicisation, fanfare and big words. Why did that take a year and a half? Why was the only institution opposed to our proposal the Ministry of Justice? Thank God, thanks to our initiative, your common sense, the support of professionals and magistrates has come to the decision, the application and consequences of which we are about to see and follow with interest. But it will soon be noted in reports such as this and also in the monitoring mechanism reports that a key burden measure has been taken and it will be among them. This will be our general achievement of this Parliament. It went through an opposition MP, but that's not the point. The important thing is that for a year and a half has been delayed and I do not underestimate the legislative initiative of lawmakers, including my own, and without overestimating them, I say that the expert potential of the nation in this area, as well as others, is concentrated in the Ministry of Justice, where there is a key directorate of law enforcement, where institutions must communicate and where the primary material of the respective reform will come here in much better form, in much more serious preparation and with much less doubt about lobbying and unnecessary politicisation. Judicial reform in normal countries is being made at the initiative of the Cabinet and is being discussed and voted in the National Assembly, and not by force today. This is my understanding and this, I believe, does not undermine the role of the National Assembly. On the contrary, it places it where it belongs, namely, at the end of a complex process, a process that must be launched by the people who practice, by the people who face judges and prosecutors who conduct cases. Otherwise, excuse the cliché, but editing a piece isn't always good. I was forced to take this initiative, for the simple reason that others before me had not done their job. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will change the logic of my speech, according to my original intention, because it becomes an interesting debate on the legislative initiative and undoubtedly and categorically here my colleague Krum Zarkov introduced in this debate the place and importance of the Ministry of Justice as a generator of legislative initiative by the government, the Council of Ministers. I accept colleague Mitev's note that this is not really a debate on the activities of the Ministry of Justice. Questions to the Minister of Justice we have the opportunity to ask according to the Rules of Procedure with written or oral questions, including questions. It amazes me that the upstanding, i.e. already on duty, trying to replace objective facts, to replace the truth. It is obvious that the opposition is targeting already strongly and categorically with attacks on the Ministry of Justice. Much of the attacks are absolutely unfounded and unfounded. The Ministry of Justice has always been involved in the legislative process, at least with a bill under individual procedural laws. There has always been a working group in the Ministry of Justice in these cases, when planning and discussing in parliament more substantial amendments to procedural laws. I use this case to say good words to my colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, as well as to the communication and interaction of the institutions in these working groups. There are some cases in which, I admit, MPs have rushed, rushed to grab something from the task force and released it as a bill. That is the case, quoted by me, with Mr. Zarkov's Bill. Mr. Zarkov has actually rearranged the working group of the Ministry of Justice and tabled this bill. And to me, my question, if we specify so much, was the following month of October, when both I and Judge Krasimir Vlahov offered this, then why didn't you support us? That wasn't a year and a half ago, that was not a year ago. If we had then received support on this very discussional issue, and this was not a matter on which the ruling majority exercised force or ignored the opposition minority's opinion and if you had supported it then, the GPC amendment would have been in fact another month of October. However, on this occasion, because we have been too specific, I would like to say the following, i.e. this case has become indicative of the following: it is true that the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, together with the Law Commission of the Supreme Judicial Council, is natural, normal and logical to interact most directly with the Ministry of Justice in relation to the preparation of one or another bill. However, I would like to assure all the representatives of the judiciary, who are present here and now in plenary, as well as all colleagues who could be informed of the fact that the Legal Committee is always open to any initiative of the Members of the Supreme Judicial Council, of the Legal Committee of the College concerned, of the entire Supreme Judicial Council. I have always stressed that, in the debates of the Legal Committee, we accept opinions even of the individual magistrates who have decided to express such an opinion, who have asked to take such a part in the debate. In this sense, I think that we should continue this policy of interaction. Since I wasted my time on the particulars, but I think it gives us sufficient reason to draw conclusions that are useful to us in the future, I will conclude that I am pleased with the two reports, I am pleased with the start of the composition of the new Supreme Judicial Council. I express my positive attitude towards the Inspector's continued efforts towards the Supreme Judicial Council to address the challenges of the new responsibilities that we have made legislative for them. I will stop here and say, and I will very much repeat myself with my colleague Mitev, no one has claimed that the change in the judiciary has been finalized, that all the details have been ironed and that this process must be completed. On the contrary, we accept that this process should continue, we are preparing for the subsequent changes to the draft laws to implement the requirements of colleagues under the cooperation and evaluation mechanism and I appeal for good interaction between opposition and governors, as well as between Parliament and other authorities in relation to the next visit of the delegation of the European Commission's mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Mr. Magdalenchev, there are no questions for you, we will not sum up. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the proposals for decisions, as presented consistently by the President of the Legal Committee. I vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016, as presented to you. They voted 124 MPs: 98, none, abstention 26. The proposal for a decision shall be adopted. I vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2017 on the text proposed by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. They voted 123 MPs: 97, none, abstention 26. The proposal for a decision shall be adopted. Moving to the second point of the program: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2016 AND A REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2017 Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. Unfortunately, Mr. Lozanov is not present. There's no representative. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Prosecutor General, Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. representing the Supreme Judicial Council, Mrs. Chief Inspector! Colleagues, apparently disrespectful of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is his absence here in this Chamber. I'm doing a procedure to postpone t. 2 because this disrespect is demonstrated once again. I understand that Mr. Panov sent a message to the Conference of Presidents that he had an important meeting. What important meetings are we talking about when this person should be here today answering questions and reporting to the courts? Please postpone the point! [[Replications. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Disgusting opinion? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u30	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honorable Mr. representing the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Prosecutor General, Mrs. Chief Inspector! I would like to offer a non-reverse opinion on the procedure of my colleague Hamid, but a procedural outcome in relation to the outrage he expressed. In my opinion, we have two options: the current t. 2 postpone it and be like t. 4, and try again from your cabinet to invite the President of the VCC. If he shows up, let's discuss the Report as a t. 4 and if it does not appear, the report may remain for discussion in another weekly programme in a future, subsequent period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Hamid. Vote 126 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 5. Mr. Hamid's offer is accepted. We'll try to contact Mr. Panov. We continue with the third point of the program: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2016 AND REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2017 Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" The Commission on Legal Affairs on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2016, No 711-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 21 June 2017 and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2017, No 850-01-161, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 22 June 2018. In its meeting held on 25 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2016, No 711-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 21 June 2017 and a Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2017, No 850-01-161, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 22 June 2018. The meeting was attended by the Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Cholakov, who presented the main trends in the activities of the administrative courts in 2016 and 2017 and drew attention to certain specifics in the work of the administrative courts. He stressed that the reports reported the judicial, interpretation and international activities of the Supreme Administrative Court. All statistics of the two colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court are detailed. The priorities and main objectives for its development are outlined, which aim to ensure greater transparency in the work of the court, balance between ongoing and resolved cases, increase the qualification of judges and judicial officers, more efficient financial management of the court, control and improvement of the human resources management process. In the context of changes in legislation relating to the conviction of cases under the Supreme Administrative Court, a comprehensive approach has been taken to a balanced distribution of cases and to control the excessive workload of magistrates. It is envisaged to continue the tendency to reduce cases considered as the first instance by the Supreme Administrative Court and to be dealt with by administrative courts. In 2016, 10 cases were filed in the Supreme Administrative Court with interpretation decisions initiated by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Minister of Justice. During the year, the General Assembly of Colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court was delivered with 5 interpretation decisions and 2 definitions. An interpretation of a mixed interpretation case between judges of the Supreme Administrative and Supreme Court of Cassation has been adopted. In 2017, the General Assembly of the Colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court ruled with 7 interpretation decisions and 2 definitions. In 2016, 14 838 cases took place in the Supreme Administrative Court and 15 038 cases took place in 2017. The total number of cases to be examined in 2016 was 21 058 and in 2017 it was 22 010. The number of substantive administrative cases at the Supreme Administrative Court for 2016 is 14 086, and for 2017 is 15 812, and for comparison in 2015 the number is 14 301 cases. Mr. Cholakov noted that during the two reporting periods the trend remains that the number of legal acts drawn up within one month is over 80% of the total number of cases done, 16% are within a three-month period and only 4% above the quarterly deadlines. The statistics set out in the reports remain the trend and the ratio for the preparation of judicial acts within the time limit, with lasting effectiveness and stability in the judicial activities of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is due both to the organisation of the judicial process and to the high personal motivation and professionalism of magistrates. It is noted that in the information panel announced by the European Commission on the results in the field of justice during the reporting period the analysis places Bulgarian administrative justice third in law enforcement systems in Europe. With regard to the indicator, the speed of justice, the speed of the first instance proceedings and respectively the minimum rate of lags in the administrative administration of Bulgaria among the first five countries in the European Union. A lasting balance has been established in 2017. In the reporting periods at the Supreme Administrative Court, a total of 90 judges worked in 2016 and 93 judges in 2017. The reports shall provide information on the activities of the administrative courts in 2016 and 2017, which shall include data on cases lodged and closed during the year for each administrative court, on the quality of the judicial acts and the period for the resolution of disputes. It should be noted that both in the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative courts there is a reduction in the number of cases received, unlike in the previous reporting period. The number of cases per month for 2016 and 23,34 is the share per month for 2017; the administrative court for Burgas is 22,7 cases per month for 2016 and 21,90 cases per month for 2017; the administrative court for 2016 and 19,61 cases per month for 2017; the administrative court for 2016 and 21,90 cases per month for 2016 and 21,04 cases per month for 2017; the administrative court for 2016 and 17,78 cases per month for 2016 and 21,52 cases per month for 2017; the administrative court for 2017; Pleven, pleven, 51 cases per month for 2016 and 19,61 cases per month for 2017. The activities of administrative courts in 2016 and 2017 are summarised by detailed data for each administrative court, including the number of cases initiated, their movement and distribution of first instance and cassation, the workload of judges, personnel security, building fund and technical security, professional qualifications of magistrates and employees, measures for publicity and communication. A number of proposals from the Supreme Administrative Court and separate administrative courts for legislative changes to the Administrative Procedure Code and other special laws have been made in the last part of the Report, leading to more effective and rapid justice. The proposals for the change in the family court of cases aim to arrange for the possibility of complaints against administrative acts issued by regulatory authorities, agencies and committees to be competent administrative courts as the first instance and thus to dismiss the Supreme Administrative Court of First Instance of the case as the first instance. The 2016 Report contains proposals for amendments to the legislation on its jurisdiction in tax matters, with their consideration assigned to all administrative courts and not only to five of them, as is the current regulation. Specific proposals have been made on the call, the involvement of stakeholders, the time limit for the decision of the administrative body, the judicial proceedings, the regulation of state fees. In the 2017 Report, the proposal for legislative changes states the opinion issued by the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, adopted in the first vote on 22 June 2017. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 18 votes for abstentions, without abstentions, adopted a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2016, No 711/6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 21 June 2017 and a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2017, No 850-01-161, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 22 June 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt draft decisions on them by means of the following: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2016 Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Dear Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor to present the reports to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u34	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In my capacity as President of the Supreme Administrative Court, I have presented relevant reports which have been adopted by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Committee on Legal Affairs respectively. I believe that I do not need to go into detail at the moment on all the data that are set out in these statistical reports. It is clear that the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative justice have proved that this administration has a place under the sun with its acts and actions that they have been carrying out for 11 years. I believe that one thing is important in relation to the report on the activity of administrative justice. The 2016 and 2017 reports to the recommendations for legislative initiatives provided for a consistent request for a change of local and family jurisdiction, as this was the huge problem that stood in the administrative justice, the overcharge of the Supreme Administrative Court and the uneven burden of administrative courts. I believe that today we can take into account that with the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, which were adopted by the National Assembly at the end of July 2018, this problem was resolved. This is an extremely good step, as this reform was expected both from society and from all lawyers involved in administrative justice. Indeed, this reform, which was made by the National Assembly, will lead to a more equal burden of administrative courts, so that it can continue to be the bodies that are therefore watching over the rights and legal freedoms of all citizens, legal persons, against the actions and omissions of the administration. I am available to answer specific questions regarding the two reports, and I believe that all these things are set out sufficiently in the reports and in the opinion that has been presented to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna have to ask you to wait. If there are any questions for you, I'll give you the floor afterwards. Before we begin discussing the reports, I will read you a message from the office of the President of the National Assembly: "Dear Members of Parliament," I inform you that today, 12 September 2018, at 10:00 p.m., a draft decision for personal changes was adopted in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. A copy of the draft decision and the documents attached to it are provided to the parliamentary groups and will be sent to the MPs of their service e-mails today. In relation to this and on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: Project of a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 September 2018, and I propose to make it a point. 2 for tomorrow's plenary session on 13 September 2018, such as the previous item. 2 for Thursday 13 September 2018 The second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, with importers Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, adopted on the first vote on 26 July 2018, should therefore be taken into account. 3 for tomorrow's sitting. I will put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Karayancheva. Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: for 136, there is no abstention 1. The offer is accepted. We continue with the debates on the reports on the implementation of the law and on the activities of the administrative courts for 2016 and 2017. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the draft decisions that have been presented to the MPs. I'll put them to the vote in the order of their presentation. I vote on the draft decision on the adoption of the Law Implementation Report and on the activities of administrative courts in 2016. Please, voting mode. They voted 135 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 27. The offer is accepted. I vote on the draft decision on the adoption of the Law Enforcement Report and on the activities of administrative courts in 2017. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 22. The offer is accepted. We move on to the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: Report on the application of the Law and on the operation of the Procurature and the Research Authorities in 2016 and Report on the application of the Law and on the operation of the Procurature and of the Research Authorities in 2017. You have the floor to present the opinion of the Legal Commission, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on a report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2016, No 711-00-5, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017 and a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017, No 830-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 30 May 2018. At its meeting held on 25 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2016 and a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Penka Bogdanova, Deputy Prosecutor General. The reports were presented by Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, who summarized the data on the activities of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Service and the prosecutions, as well as the activities of the investigating police officers, the investigating military police officers and the investigating customs inspectors. The reports contain an analysis of the main indicators compared to territorial structures, analysis by types of crime, as well as forecasts of maintaining the intensity of the criminogenic situation in relation to domestic crime. The structure of the registered and exposed crime, the reasons for the court-appointed investigative cases, as well as the reasons for the acquittal, has been analyzed. Trends have been outlined in the main directions in the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and measures and legislative changes have been proposed to overcome repeated difficulties in the work. Issues concerning cases of particular public interest concerning corruption and organised crime; crimes related to the involvement of the European Union's financial interests; human trafficking; tax and financial crimes; drug trafficking; crimes committed by minors and victims of minors are discussed. There's also a report on the D.A.'s activities with the D.A. Information has been provided on the judgment decisions against the Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the Law on State liability and the municipalities for damages. In 2017 there was an increase in crimes of 2.8% compared to the previous year and a decrease of 1.1% compared to 2015. The total number of registered crimes in the country in 2017 was 106 thousand. In 2016 659, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 773 and 2015 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 870. The crimes solved in 2017 were 46 thousand. 650, in 2016 '49,000. 460 and 2015 45,000. 281. In 2017, the detection rate of the crimes was 43.7%, which was 3.9 percent less compared to 2016 and 1.8% more compared to 2015. In 2017, the property crimes followed by the general, economic and personal crimes prevail. In 2017 there was an increase in crimes by 2.8% compared to the previous year and a decrease of 1.1% compared to 2015. The total number of registered crimes in the country in 2017 was 106 659, in 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-s. The crimes solved in 2017 were 46,650, in 2016. In 2015 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') In 2017, the detection rate of the crimes was 43.7%, which was 3.9% less compared to 2016 and 1.8% more compared to 2015. In 2017, the property crimes followed by the general, economic and personal crimes prevail. It is noted that the main criminogenic factors determining the level of crime are related to the depopulation of small settlements and the level of poverty in them, the intensive migration to large cities and the low level of education of a large number of individuals, mostly in youth age. In 2017, prosecutors in the country worked on a total of 295 763 files and 211 045 pre-trial proceedings, respectively 305 602 files and 211 079 pre-trial proceedings in 2016. The large number of refusals to initiate pre-trial proceedings confirms the conclusion that the Prosecutor's Office is dealing with issues beyond its competence with civil disputes, administrative violations, domestic and interpersonal problems. There is a decline in the immediate proceedings compared to the previous two years "46.6%' compared to 2016, and 24,7% compared to 2015, with 1616 at 3029 in 2016, and 2146 in 2015. The rapid proceedings in 2017 were 19 766, with 16 236 in 2016, and 13 385 in 2015. The share of the investigations completed within the period 2017 was 97,79%, with 99,97% in 2016, and 99,91% in 2015. There was a decrease in the suspended pre-trial proceedings by 11,5% compared to 2016 and 18,3% compared to 2015. The suspended limitation cases in 2017 were 39,067 at 36,612 in 2016. The prosecutors' act, including indictments, proposals for agreements and decrees with proposals for penal discharge, submitted in 2017, was 33 452 and in 2016. A decrease of 2,7% compared to the previous year was observed. The persons handed down to court in 2017 were 37,087, in 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, " 38,861. A permanent high proportion of convicted and sanctioned persons with an entry into force against all persons with a final judgment shall be reported, with over 97% for the last three years. The persons with the entry into force of judgment for 2017 are 33,778, for 2016. s 34 454, and for 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Attorney General has submitted 115 requests for the reopening of criminal cases under art. 422, para. 1, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It reduced the number of judgment decisions brought in force against the prosecution of proceedings under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages, which for 2017 was 280, with 285 in 2016 and 300 in 2015. Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that in 2017 the process of optimization of the judicial map has started, as a result of which 11 district prosecutors such as Tower, Belogradchik, Breznik, Trun and territorial units are being created in 2019. He focused on the difficulties with the organization and work of the property and translators, as well as on the personnel security of the investigative police. Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov proposed an extension of the competence of the military prosecutors and courts with the range of crimes committed by persons in the office of the State Agency People's representatives Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov, Hamid Hamid, Simeon Naydenov, Yavor Notev, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov took part in the talks, who said they would support the submitted reports. In response to a question from Mr. Popov, Mr. Tsatsarov said that training programs for investigative officers were in place, but the significant difficulties are related to inadequate technical and expert support at the Scientific Institute of Crime and Criminology, lack of a random selection system and distribution of cases between investigative police officers, as well as insufficient funds to pay the experts. To Mr. Hamid's question regarding the recent amendments to the PPC, Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that the necessary state numbers for prosecutors and investigators were transferred to the Special Prosecutor's Office, focusing on the existing building problem. Mr. Notev and Mr. Lazarov united around the need for legislative changes to secure pre-trial and judicial proceedings with qualified persons. Following the debates held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Council of Justice, without the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017, adopted a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2016, No 711-05 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017, and a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017, No 830-04 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 30 May 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly draft decisions for their adoption: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigative bodies in 2016. Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Mr. Tsatsarov, you have the floor to present the reports to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, both the Prosecution's reports for 2016 and 2017, and everything presented before you just now on behalf of the Legal Commission, contain a sufficient amount of figures and figures on the work of the Prosecutor's Office. In view of this, I think that there is no point in burdening you again with statistics, but in a nutshell to present to you several problems and, at the same time, several fundamental points in the Report, which are related to views on the legislative changes that have been made, as well as the necessary legislative changes. First of all, with regard to problems, I confirm the existence of two major problems that appear to be important and, I would say, still difficult to overcome factors causing delays in pre-trial proceedings. One of them is the problem with expertise. It is both about the general insecurity of pre-trial proceedings and the judicial system in general, both with a built structure and with qualified specialists. On the one hand, there are areas in the country where there are no forensics at all, and the Institute of Forensics at the Ministry of Interior is overloaded by expertise. The waiting of expertise is one of the main factors that causes the delay in pre-trial proceedings. The second problem, which is highlighted in the report, concerns the interaction with the Ministry of Interior or, more precisely, the personnel provision and training of the investigative apparatus. Measures need to be taken precisely in the direction of the training of investigative police officers. On the part of the Prosecutor's Office is doing everything necessary in this direction, but without transferring the responsibility to someone the main burden is in the Ministry of Interior. With regard to legislative changes, I must thank both the members of the Legal Commission and all of you who supported the legislative amendments last in size in the PPC, which entered into force in November 2017. Of particular importance for us are two moments: the first is the acceleration of the process in both phases, especially with the introduction of the hearing, and the reduction of the possibilities for the endless and uncontrolled return of the cases of the Prosecutor's Office, and the second concerns the conviction of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. Our assessment of them is positive. We believe that these legislative amendments have proved their necessity and are working. I would like to draw your attention to the need, of course, without spreading too much into a few necessary legislative changes. They were marked to a small extent in the Legal Commission Report. In our opinion, I mean that I am expressing my opinion not only of the prosecution's leadership, but also of my fellow prosecutors - amendments to the Criminal Code concerning Corruption Crimes - are necessary. It is well known to us that such a bill has been tabled, it is well known to us that this bill has caused serious discussions regarding so-called corruption in the private sector, but it should not be forgotten that this bill has another essential part. It is the change of the Penal Code in the section of official crimes and corruption crimes, or what our emphasis is on is, in fact, corruption in the public sector, if I may say so. A large part of the norms there have remained unchanged since the creation of the Penal Code. I draw your attention to the need to explicitly provide for the possibility of applying a mitigated criminal liability to defendants who have contributed substantially not only to the detection and proving of crimes for which they have been charged in a particular case but also to serious crimes in other cases. In other words, seeking immunity from evidence of serious crimes. I also place your attention to the existing, in our view, the need to reconsider the conviction in search of an independent and impartial investigation into cases where we are investigating crimes committed by officers of the Ministry of Interior and, above all, cases of police violence. The fact that they are being investigated by the respective district or district prosecutors on the ground is a problem that causes both delays and insufficient fair results in many cases. I also draw attention to the need for this to be used for the investigation of crimes against the financial, tax and insurance systems, even if it is considered an increase in the time limit for the possible use of special intelligence resources only in relation to organised criminal groups. I also draw attention to another controversial problem. He is related to the powers of the Military Prosecutor's Office. You know the disputes in this direction, but in this direction there is a capacity that is literally unused, and it would be good to consider extending this conviction in view of crimes committed by civil servants in the office of the SANS, the General Directorate of Security, the Directorate General for Punishment and the execution of their services, as well as crimes committed by civil persons in complicity and co-operation with such persons. There is no, as I said, to quote no more figures or any more problems, the report is sufficiently detailed in this regard. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsatsarov. Colleagues, I am opening the debate on both reports. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Attorney General! The reports both, in my opinion, outline a trend, outline a few serious problems. Problems that we at BSP talked about, which we alerted about, which we required, and we offer solutions. Problems you don't do anything about, obviously. What are these problems outlined again in both reports? Demographic crisis, poverty, uneducated education This formula is detrimental to the criminogenic situation in Bulgaria. It leads to the criminogenic situation in Bulgaria, to crime, with the biggest share of domestic crime, and on this background there are also findings of serious findings in both reports on deepening problems in the Ministry of Interior system. And in order not to be naked, I will read you some of these findings in both reports. Here, the rapporteur addressed both problems in both reports, but obviously no one was listening, no one was interested, because you clearly have no thought and intent to seek solutions to these problems. As regards the 2016 report, "What is written in "Instructions and predictions": "The level of crime in the country continues to be determined by major criminal factors" as the level of unemployment, the concentration of the population in large cities and the depopulation of small settlements. With a significant degree of probability, these factors will retain their intensity, which is why the criminogenic situation will not change significantly in terms of domestic crime, especially in areas with less economic development. Again in the same 2016 report, what is recorded for the Ministry of Interior? There is insufficient personnel security in the Ministry of Interior, reduced staff of investigative police officers in certain areas, excessive workload, unilateral change in the place of performance of the duties. The said, along with the insufficient building fund, is among the factors that have a demotivating impact, especially in the case of new investigative police officers. And now the 2017 report, which is basically a déjà vu of what I just read for 2016. Again, with the largest share of the crimes recorded during the accounting year are those against property following from common criminal offences, economic crimes and crimes against the individual. Once again, the main criminogenic factors determining the level of crime are linked to the depopulation of small settlements and the level of poverty in them, intensive migration to large cities, low level of education of many individuals, mostly in youth age. These circumstances, as well as demographic processes, give reason to assume that the criminogenic situation will not change significantly, and this requires strengthening the interaction and coordination between institutions to counter crime and taking forward actions to prevent adverse events from occurring in its development. What kind of interaction between which institutions? Next, again in the same report for 2017 with regard to the Ministry of Interior, the following statement is contained: The problem remains the personnel insurance in the Ministry of Interior, reduced real working staff of investigative police officers in certain areas, turnover, high workload, unilateral change of place and performance of the duties combined with insufficient building fund. Dear MPs, these negative trends, this severe problem will not be solved with a lustrous pseudostability, with quarrels and jitters between the management for the bone. They require solutions, require state-owned thinking and rather what will we do in time after GERB? How will we restore statehood after GERB? [[Laughter at GERB.]] Because apparently so many years since 2016. This is also contained in the 2017 reports, similar findings in previous prosecution reports, remain these severe deepening problems. We are telling you, now you are telling the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. I know you'll take it with a mockery, with a smile, with a mocking attitude. But, honourable MPs of the ruling majority, it's time for you to leave! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The line is written by Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u42	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable senior representatives of the judiciary! I hesitated whether to request the floor by procedure or to make a reply to my colleague Popov. It is more honest to give him a reply, but while I was listening to him, I really felt a desire to ask for a procedure, because colleagues from the opposition continue to abuse their deviation in terms of debate on points one through four. You cannot throw stones at ministers when we are not in parliamentary control, but we are discussing the annual reports of the judicial authorities! The ministers can't answer you. But since I would like my colleague Popov to listen carefully to me, I would try to get a positive out of his statement in the following sense: Commissioner Popov, the issues you raise are neither limited to the competence of the prosecution, nor solely in the activity and energy of the executive and of the Ministry of Interior. Here, let's look at the consensus on a new, common, widely supported current criminal policy, because I told you in the previous debate, in just a few days we will have a visit to the delegation of the Cooperation and Assessment Mission and we will still have to discuss with them how far we have come with the new criminal policy. The policy must be made here and signed the individual measures, programmed their implementation, set out in the relevant regulations. I think that your statement was absolutely incorrect and intended simply to reflect, to accumulate a political asset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov! Second line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Popov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I thought you said we threw stones at the ministers who couldn't, you see, answer us. They don't want to answer, and I don't think they need to answer. Their resignations are eloquent enough about who does what in their portfolio. But obviously, Mr. Kirilov, you didn't understand me at all. Here the problems will not be solved by the resignation of one minister or another. The problem is much more serious and much deeper and it will be solved by changing the model imposed by GERB in the last 10 years. The management model, as a result of which the criminogenic situation in Bulgaria is evidently rising and continues to be maintained. Here is the model that you are told in the reports, this is contained in the findings in the reports and in 2016 and 2017. I am talking on the reports, honourable colleague Kirilov. It's nice to read them and learn a lesson if you decide to do something, not talk in common here, clap your hands, hug each other. It is obvious that you do not want it, you do not want to change this model of management, for you it is good for you, but for Bulgaria it is disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Before we proceed, dear Lord Hamid, you had a request for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Guests! Obviously, our calls about an hour ago to come here were not heard by the President of the VCC, although the point has been postponed, so, fellow Members of the National Assembly, I am doing procedure under the order of art. 28, para. 5 of our Rules of Procedure to vote on the mandatory appearance of the President of the VCC in plenary in order to present the Report of the Courts in the Republic of Bulgaria because it is not normal that the report of all the courts in Bulgaria should not be adopted only because the President of the Chambers had an important meeting. Even here on the sidelines, colleagues are joking that there must be some kind of grenades somewhere, and he can't do his job. Remember...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u47	Mr. Hamid, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u48	Remember that we voted somewhere in June or July for Mrs. Asena Stoimenova and she also said that she had an important meeting and did not come here and a month after that she went away not that I was making any analogy, but if someone would not perform their duties to take the necessary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u50	I use the proposal made to dispel a great delusion in society and to oppose these phrases, words of the entire legend of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which represented the courts, judge number one and so on and so forth. Complete nonsense, the replacement of constitutional principles and norms, and we are hearing similar phrases again in plenary. That's what liberals usually do. The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, fellow lawyers, and all Members of the National Assembly, is President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. He really participated in the Supreme Judicial Council, but he was neither the first between equals; he was not the first and the chief of other courts; he was the administrative head of this highest institution; the Supreme Court of Cassation. From now on, he is presenting the courts throughout the country, district, Supreme Court of Cassation, appeals courts, is a complete nonsense and a complete misunderstanding of the role of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and speculation, pouring water into his mill. This has been going on for months as a campaign, for years even. Here we accept reports from the Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Judicial Council, there is someone to represent the Supreme Judicial Council, but the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, as President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, is not at all, to call him to come here and oblige him, to assign him and to appoint him functions and role which he does not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I will now put to the vote the procedural proposal made by MP Hamid Hamid. They voted 112 MPs: 36, against 5, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, you want a re-vote. Would you mind arguing?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like a re-vote because we have a hesitation in this vote. I voted against it myself, and I even wanted an explanation of a negative vote, but I want a revoting because of the following: I want to be aware that my colleague Hamid has absolutely all the reasons for the claim and the request he made, and I would say that if, in other circumstances, as he quotes an analogy with the Medicines Agency, yes, we would have such grounds. Rather, my advice is in the direction, as far as the supreme administrative head of the judiciary is concerned, and in view of the principle of separation of powers, not to embarrass this division and not to oblige any of the three presidents, the three great ones in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm going to reschedule the just-voted procedural proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 30, against 5, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u54	Are there any speeches? I won't. We proceed to the vote on the read decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2016 They voted 150 MPs: 117, none, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. We also vote on the other decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2017 They voted 150 MPs: 115, none, abstention 35. The proposal has been adopted and the decision has been adopted. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENERGY OF RENEWABLE SOURCES. The Commission's report on energy will be presented by the President of the Commission. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Hall of Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u56	We shall proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber, according to art. 49. Vote 112 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please allow the person to be invited to the Chamber. Proceed with the report, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u57	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 July 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mrs. Alexandrina Dimitrova, State Expert in the Directorate of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister Zhecho Stankov and the proposed amendments and additions are related to three main aspects. The first is related to transposition of the requirements of art. 2 of Directive 2015/1513/EC. The changes focus mainly on the consumption of biofuels in transport and the implementation of the mandatory target of 10% share of renewable energy in the final consumption of energy in the transport sector by 2020. A threshold of 7% of conventional biofuels which can be taken into account for the fulfilment of the target of 10% renewable energy in the final consumption in the transport sector is introduced by 2020. The transposition also informs the European Commission of the national objective of biofuels of a new generation, which amounts to 0,05 percentage points of energy content from the mandatory share of energy from RES by 2020. In order to achieve this objective, it is planned to introduce an obligation for persons placing oil liquid fuels on the market for transport during this year to market for diesel engines fuels with a minimum of 6% volume biodiesel, with a minimum of 1% volume biodiesel from new generation fuels. This obligation has also been introduced for final distributors of heavy fuel from petroleum products. The second aspect relates to the implementation of a decision of the European Commission on State aid, namely: removing the risk of violation of art. Art. 30 and Art. 110 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Renewable Energy, an amendment to the Energy Act is proposed, which removes the component to the price "A duty to society" reflecting the cost of renewable energy for the third Member States of the European Union and energy produced on the territory of the country. The amount of compensation for the period from 1 July 2011 to the entry into force of the Energy Act must also be determined. Once that amount has been determined, it will be invested to develop the interconnection and, in particular, to build the electricity line of 400 kilovolts between the substation of Maritsa-Eastern and Nea Santa substation with Greece. The third aspect relates to the implementation of recommendations from an audit report by the Court of Auditors regulating the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with a view to better coordination in the implementation of the objectives. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Valentin Nikolov asked whether the intermediate goals are indicative or mandatory. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov made a statement that part of the bill is being adopted again because they did not notify the actions and there is a criminal procedure. He asked for the correspondence to be provided between the Ministry of Energy and the European Commission on the case. Mr. Ermenkov accepted the remarks on the draft of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association (BPGA), and said that the MPs of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will vote abstention. People's representative Atanas Kostadinov asked the importers about BPGA's claim that the proposed measures exceed the requirements of European legislation and in fact Bulgaria has the highest component of biofuels on average for Europe. Mr. Zhecho Stankov answered the questions, saying that the intermediate targets are indicative, what needs to be met is the binding goal by 2020. The Ministry of Energy has no concern about non-compliance or non-transposing of directives. There is a notification letter from the European Commission relating to changes to Directive 2009/28 which also affect other directives. In this regard, the relevant transposition shall be carried out. The only correspondence that has been conducted is a letter of notice from the European Commission and will be provided. A 10 times lower norm is set on the size of biofuels from a new generation. A norm is set at 0,05 percentage points, which at European level is said to be 0,5%. From the guests of the meeting presented Svetoslav Benchev a representative of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, expressing the desire between the two votes to hold a dialogue with representatives of the Ministry of Energy on the percentages imposed for biofuels. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and 5 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt, at first reading, a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. I propose that, with the next reports and discussions, we proceed after the rest, which will be within half an hour. Allow me to read you a message: an exhibition will be opened in the Northern foyer on the occasion of 150 years since the birth of Mara Belcheva, a Bulgarian poet, translator and companion of the great poet Pencho Slaveykov. The exhibition contains documents and personal correspondence, originals of books and personal belongings of the poet. The exhibition is organized with the assistance of the National Literary Museum of the Ministry of Culture. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u59	We'll continue with the next report. It belongs to the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. At a meeting held on 5 July 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Waters "Neno Dimov Minister," and Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister; by the Ministry of Energy On behalf of the importers, Deputy Minister Stankov presented the Draft Law and the reasons for its adoption, stating that the main objectives of the bill are related to three main aspects: 1. Transposition the requirements of Directive 2015/1513/EC, targeting the consumption of fuels in transport and implementing a 10% mandatory share of energy from renewable sources in final consumption of energy in transport by 2020. A 7% threshold of conventional biofuels is introduced which can be taken into account for the implementation of a 10% mandatory share of energy from renewable sources in final consumption of energy in transport. Bulgaria has identified and submitted to the European Commission a national target for the consumption of biofuels from a new generation of 0,05 percentage points of energy from the mandatory share of renewable energy in all modes of transport to be achieved by 2020. In order to achieve this objective, as of 1 September 2018, an obligation is introduced on persons placing on the market petroleum liquid fuels in transport to market diesel engines with a minimum of 6 volume per cent biodiesel, with at least 1% of biodiesel being a new generation. Such an obligation shall also be introduced for final distributors. 2. Decision of the European Commission relating to State aid. The Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act make amendments to the Energy Act, which provide that the component of green energy is not to be paid by the final customers for the quantities of electricity from renewable sources produced in other Member States and consumed in the country. 3. In relation to an audit report by the Court of Auditors and taking into account its observations, the Bill regulates the powers of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry with a view to better coordination in the implementation of the objectives of the Transport sector. The President of the Commission Mrs. Vasileva gave the floor to the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water before the debates. Minister Dimov expressed the overall support of the Bill by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Opinion on the bill expressed Mr. Svetoslav Benchev from the Bulgarian Gas and Oil Association, who stressed that they understand the need to adopt this law and are aware of the criminal procedure, but do not support the proposals for the introduction of 1% biodiesel from 1 September this year. They believe that neither industry is ready nor distributors will be able to apply these requirements in practice. According to the Directive, the objectives should be achieved by 2020, which is why they propose either the rates of biodiesel to be reduced or the deadline to be closer to 2020. Note that all fuels should meet sustainability criteria, and responsibility for the compliance of fuels with the sustainability certificate must be borne by producers and not by fuel distributors. Deputy Minister Stankov explained that the Ministry of Energy is willing to support a change in the date for introduction of obligations, but not to change the percentage of biodiesel. Regarding sustainability criteria will be considered after the entry into force of the Law. People's representative Manol Genov asked whether there was a legal analysis on the percentage use of petrol and diesel and what is needed to achieve the target and whether there is a risk to fuel quality and who will be responsible for achieving it. In response, Deputy Minister Stankov said that an analysis was carried out and the details were clarified with all interested parties and there are no concerns about the proper implementation of the requirements of the Directive. Deputy Minister Atanaska Nikolova added that after the adoption of the amendments to the Law there will be a legal basis for the adoption of the amendments to the Ordinance which governs the new criteria for sustainability of fuels developed by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 17 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It will be presented by the President of the Commission, Mr Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 4 July 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Zhecho Stankov "Deputy Minister of Energy." The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Directorate of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and Mr. Zheko Zhekov, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Corporate Management in Energy, Ms. Alexandrina Dimitrova, State Expert in the Directorate of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and Mrs. Lucia Baklacheva. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Renewable Energy Act (REV II) was developed for the purpose of transposition of requirements of art. 2 of Directive 2015/1513/EC, as well as the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Decision of the European Commission on State aid No C (2016) 5202 of 4 August 2016 of the European Commission on support for the production of energy from renewable sources in Bulgaria. The draft is also aimed at implementing the Court of Auditors' recommendations from Audit Report No 0300001613 on the audit of the implementation of the European Union's objectives and national objectives for the production and use of biofuels for the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012. The existing Renewable Energy Act and its regulations transpose the requirements of Directive 2009/28/EC to promote the use of renewable energy. Directive 2015/1513/EC, adopted in 2015, introduced changes to Directive 2009/28/EC aimed primarily at the consumption of biofuels and the implementation of the mandatory target of 10% share of renewable energy in the final consumption of energy in the transport sector by 2020. In order to transpose the requirements of art. 2 of Directive 2015/151 H/EC introduces a 7% threshold for conventional biofuels produced from raw materials which are food and feed crops or energy crops grown on agricultural land which can be reported for the implementation of 10% mandatory share of energy from renewable sources in the final consumption of energy in transport. The European Commission's decision fixed the compensation for the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 April 2016, amounting to BGN 1 146 965,51, equivalent to EUR 588 187,44. This amount should be supplemented by the compensation due for the period from 1 May 2016 until the entry into force of the amendments to the Energy Act, which is why the forthcoming legislative changes regulate the obligations of: - the public supplier, which should pay the operator of the transmission network funds of BGN 1 146 965,51. for the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 April 2016 and the funds calculated by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the period from 1 May 2016 until the entry into force of this Act; - the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which should determine the compensation for the period from 1 May 2016 to the entry into force of the amendments to the Act on the basis of the amount of electricity from renewable sources entered into the energy system of the Republic of Bulgaria by neighbouring Member States of the European Union and used by finals connected to that system and the component charged for those quantities, determined by the Commission for the relevant price periods; - the operator of the transmission network, which should spend the funds provided for the construction of the 400 kV intersystem power line In line with the recommendation of Audit Report No 0300001613 on the audit of the implementation of the European Union's objectives and the national objectives for the production and use of biofuels for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012, the Act regulates the powers of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with a view to better coordination in the implementation of the objectives of the In the subsequent discussion the Vice-President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva asked a question about the availability of biofuels from a new generation on the Bulgarian market and whether there are producers of this type of fuel in the country. Mr. Stankov replied that a number of meetings with different associations were held during the preparation of the Bill, which are representatives of traders and producers of biofuels in Bulgaria. In this respect, it noted that the quantity of 1% biodiesel was not large as required volume. Part of it can be produced on the territory of the country and another part can be imported from abroad. As a result of the vote that took place after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 4 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Is there an importer's opinion? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 66, none, abstention 24. The proposal is not accepted due to lack of quorum. I give the floor for Mr. Nikolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I see colleagues coming in and couldn't vote, so I'm doing a re-voting procedure for the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u65	We proceed to a re-vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 16 June 2018. They voted 109 MPs: 77, none, abstention 32. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u66	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of the adoption of the Bill, I propose that on the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the period between first and second reading be 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for a period of 21 days between first and second readings on the bill which we have just adopted. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. A report from the Committee on Culture and Media, please come forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! Procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mrs. Anelia Gesheva to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission to the Deputy Minister's Hall. Vote 95 MPs: for 89, there are no abstentions 6. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Deputy Minister Gesheva to the Chamber. Go on, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u70	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing The Cultural Heritage Act, No 802-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 19 July 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act was reviewed, No 802-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov Deputy Minister, Tatiana Tsvetanova Director of the Legal and Public Procurement Department, Vesela Shterevska Secretary; from the National Archaeological Institute with Museum at BAS: Assoc. Dr. Hristo Popov, Deputy Director. The bill on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The proposed legislative amendments and additions aim to review certain administrative procedures relating to movable and immovable cultural heritage and to refine them. The digitalization of cultural heritage activity is introduced as one of the main functions for the Minister of Culture in the protection of cultural heritage. The meetings of specialized expert councils are intended to be broadcast in real time through the website of the Ministry of Culture. The subject of the activities of the Center for Underwater Archaeology with the search, study, identification, preservation and presentation of cultural values found underwater, with cognitive, educational and aesthetic purpose. The definition of an archaeological reserve is amended. Individual provisions propose the removal of imperfections and deficiencies in the procedures for declaring objects of real cultural heritage and the granting of status of cultural values. The conditions for obtaining authorisation and entry into the register for carrying out field archaeological research for persons, established specialists and with proven professional experience shall be alleviated. There is an opportunity for public collections to receive methodological assistance from national and regional museums. The cultural heritage law envisions children learning and disabled persons visiting museums to pay reduced prices or to be released from paying an entry ticket. The bill provides for the same thing to apply to the escorts of people with disabilities. The bill is accompanied by a partial preliminary impact assessment and does not introduce requirements of European legislation. Assoc. Prof. Hristo Popov took part in the proposed changes related to archaeological studies and the issuance of permits. Express support for them and define them as imperative and justified. After the discussion the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 16 votes to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Heritage, No 802-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I'm opening the debate. Will there be an importer's opinion? I don't see that desire. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We are voting at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 802-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill was adopted at first reading. We move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROPOSAL OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, HEARING OF CANDIDATES AND CALLING OF COURTS IN THE CONSTITUTION COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FROM THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to draw your attention to the Members of the National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe on the discussion and adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly At its meeting held on 11 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of a constitutional judge from the quota of the National Assembly. The need to conduct the public procedure arises from the expiry of the term of judge of the Constitutional Court on the basis of art. 148, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order to implement the provision of art. 147, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to adopt rules of procedure for the election of a judge in the Constitutional Court from the quota of the National Assembly. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 147 paras 1, 2 and 3, art. 148, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly I. Offering candidates for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and presenting their documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the National Assembly quota shall be made by Members of the National Assembly in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Legal Affairs within 14 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: - written consent of the applicant according to the model of the application No 1 to the Decision; - detailed CV; - copies of a diploma for higher legal education and a certificate of legal capacity; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 147, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; - a model declaration relating to the requirements for citizenship under art. 4, para. 3 of the Constitutional Court Act II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals together with the documents under Section I shall be published within three working days of receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly proposed the candidate concerned shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for the pursuit of public utility activities and professional organisations, no later than three days before the hearing of candidates, may submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs opinions on candidates, including issues to be addressed to it. The mass media may send to the Committee on Legal Affairs to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References====External links==*Prince Alexander I "No 1, Committee on Legal Affairs," or by e-mail: kpv1@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Check for admission of candidates for a hearing. 1. Within three days of the submission of the documents, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall send to the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works a list of candidates for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria for verification of citizenship. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for the appointment of Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. If the Committee on Legal Affairs finds that a candidate has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform him that it may submit them within 2 days of notification. 4. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. 2 or do not meet the requirements for taking up the post of Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. 5. After carrying out the verification, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall draw up a list of candidates admitted to a hearing in alphabetical order, according to their own names, and publish it on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of the proposed candidates for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. 1. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the proposer and the applicant shall be presented in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 3. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the powers and activities of the Constitutional Court in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 4. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 5. Upon completion of the questions asked, the applicant shall be given the opportunity to answer in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 6. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 7. The Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates shall be attached, in alphabetical order of their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to elect each candidate to judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. VI. Election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates may be present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal according to their order as defined in the list of candidates for Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, prepared in alphabetical order of their own names, in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote shall be open and shall be carried out separately for each candidate in accordance with the order set out in the list of candidates. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section VI, the elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the National Assembly shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under Article 8. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 147, para. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria according to the model "Annex No 4 to the Decision'; 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a), 1 a declaration under Article 1 shall be lodged. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property according to the model "Annex No 5 to the Decision." Coming up next: Annex 1 to the Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. I.D. I declare that I agree to be offered for... Annex 2 to the same Decision. "Declaration" The undersigned (s) the undersigned I declare that I agree/agree to carry out a preliminary check to establish the belonging of the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Annex 3 to the Decision, whose project we are discussing. "Declaration under art. 4, para. 3 of the Constitutional Court Act The undersigned (s) the undersigned I declare that I am a Bulgarian citizen and have no other citizenship. Annex 4 to the Decision, whose project we are discussing. "Declaration under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 147, para. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The undersigned (s) the undersigned I declare that: 1. I am not in a representative mandate 2. I do not hold a state or public office 3. I am not a member of a political party or syndicate 4. I do not exercise free, commercial or other paid professional activity I am aware that for the declaration of false data I have criminal liability under art. 313 of the Criminal Code. "Annex No 5" to the decision of which the Project we are discussing: "Declaration" under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Counteraction of corruption and of the withdrawal of illegal The acquired property The undersigned................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. U.N.N., L.K. No, ed. of the Ministry of Interior, acting as Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria DECLARES THAT: by date there has been a change in the circumstances declared by me in the declaration lodged under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the following fact arose, which is described:... I am aware that for declared false data I have criminal liability under art. 313 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE TRADE LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 December 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending the Commercial Act, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. Deputy Minister of Justice and Mr. Lyubomir Talev. The need to introduce the amendments proposed by the Bill derives from the existing risk in terms of transparency of information on persons holding bearer shares. The particular thing about bearer shares is that the person exercising the actual power over bearer shares is the holder of their rights. This makes the change of owner (holder of rights) very easy, which requires only the physical transmission of shares. The risk associated with bearer shares is also identified by the Organisation of the Financial Action Task Force in relation to the fight against money laundering and the financing and spread of terrorism. The recommendations of the Working Group have been expressed in Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. Annex III to Directive (EU) 2015/849 also contains an incomplete list of factors and types of evidence of potentially higher risk in cases of extended complex verification, including companies having nominal shareholders or bearer shares. [[Noise and lines. Movement of MPs in the Chamber.]] The louder I speak, the louder the coworkers speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u75	Guys, I'm begging you very much to be quiet! Please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u76	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u77	Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u78	The proposed draft Law amending the Commercial Law provides for the elimination of the possibility for joint stock companies and for command companies with shares to issue shares to a carrier. The shares of bearers issued until the entry into force of this law shall be replaced by name shares. After the adoption of the Bill, the Republic of Bulgaria will be treated as a transparent tax jurisdiction and a reliable partner in the joint international efforts to prevent cross-border tax evasion and non-tax evasion. This will have a favourable effect on the investment climate in the Republic of Bulgaria and hence on all stakeholders. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Member of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, asked whether the non-application of the European Directive 2015/849 leads to sanctions and how many member states apply this legislation to date. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr Christian Vigenin, was interested in whether the period of nine months was sufficient, which was given to companies to bring their activities into line with the Law and how many companies would be affected. Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice, replied that sanctions are likely to be imposed when the directive is not implemented, as with any other European directive. With regard to the period of nine months, it is considered that it should be sufficient. Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Law Department at the Ministry of Justice, added that according to the official register, companies are 555. As a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 3 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes for the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. For the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please come in, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u81	Please vote on the procedure so made. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u82	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Commercial Law, No 702 01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. At its meeting held on 11 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Ministry of Law and Mrs. Daniela Belchina. The bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. He pointed out that the amendments provide a standard for transparency and exchange of information in relation to the commercial companies that issued shares in bearers, noting that a speciality for the holder of bearer shares is the fact that the person exercising actual power over the bearer shares also holds the membership rights thereof, and that the change of ownership of the shares requires only their physical transmission, which is not disclosed in the Commercial Register. The Law proposes, within nine months of the entry into force of the Law, companies that issued shares in bearers to take action to amend their statutes, replace the shares of bearers with names, keep shareholders' books and declare changes in the Commercial Register. In the event of failure to comply with the requirements of the Law, the company's activities are to be terminated at the request of a prosecutor. The adoption of the Bill will contribute to improving the investment climate, the treatment of the Republic of Bulgaria as a transparent tax jurisdiction and a reliable partner in the joint international efforts to prevent cross-border evasion and tax evasion. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov took part in the discussion. Mr. Milkov pointed out that he supports the objectives of the Bill, but added that he should be refined in order to protect the membership rights of the shareholders. On Mr. Milkov's question, Mr. Stoyanov explained that the bill provides for a 9-month period within which companies issued shares in bearers should amend their statutes, replace the shares of bearers with name shares, start keeping books on shareholders and declare changes in the Trade Register. He clarified that 555 companies are currently registered in the Commercial Register, where the membership rights are certified by means of bearer shares. Mr. Talev pointed out that representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the National Revenue Agency, the Registry Agency, the Supreme Council of Laws and branch organizations participated in the Working Group on the Draft. He noted that a shareholder whose bearer shares were impaired because he did not request the replacement of the shares of a bearer of names within 9 months has the right to ask the company to pay him the equivalent of the contributions made to them within 6 months of the knowledge, but no later than 5 years from the date of the de-instruction. He clarified that the 6-month period was intended to meet the requirement of the Temporary Implementation Directive. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the proposed changes harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing and to support it. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection to the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-12.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I see no wish to speak from the MPs. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. They voted 100 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've exhausted our agenda for today. Tomorrow as the first point will be the new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 201 of 31 July 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm shutting down today's plenary day. Tomorrow is a regular meeting, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
