ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We continue with yesterday's items on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION 2017 Imported by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2018. Mr. Nikolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure for the admission of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, President of the Commission, Mrs. Zheny Haritonova, Mr. Alexander Yordanov, Mr. Ramzi Osman, Mr. Georgi Zlatev and Mr. Vladko Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. 140 MPs voted: 136, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. We move on to reading the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u4	♪ I can't believe for the activities of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2017, No 820-00-10, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2018. At its regular meeting on 31 May 2018, the Energy Commission examined, discussed and voted on a report on the Commission's activity on energy and water regulation for 2017, No 820-00-10, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2018. The meeting was attended by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mr. Ivan Ivanov Chairman, and the members Ms. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Penka Trendafilova, Mr. Alexander Yordanov and Mr. Vladko Vladimirov. On behalf of the importers, the report was presented by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, in which he pointed out that the Commission in the past 2017 continued its activities to build the regulatory framework to create a sustainable regulatory framework for Bulgarian energy in the period of further liberalisation of the electricity market. The Commission conducts an annual pricing policy aimed at protecting the public interest, taking into account the financial situation of Bulgarian citizens. Over the past year, the Commission has carried out a fruitful international activity in order to make Bulgaria an indispensable factor in the Balkans with regard to regulators in countries which are not yet members of the European Union, pursuing a policy of actively attracting the countries of the Western Balkans through bilateral treaties. What is different in 2017 compared to the previous period is the implementation of the new website of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which is constantly enriching. On a proposal from the National Representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov was introduced special coverage of all the general conditions of the energy companies according to their nature in order to enable consumers of electricity and heat to have common access to the general conditions and to know their rights. It is being developed and will be launched within the coming weeks a portal for access of citizens electronically to the administrative services proposed by the Commission for energy and water regulation. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, with 18 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Report on the Commission's energy and water regulation activities for 2017, No 820/10, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2018, and attached to it Draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Would you like to introduce us to the Project Decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the 2017 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the Commission's activity on energy and water regulation for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are leaving.]] People's representatives, please be quiet! I'm opening the debate on the report. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u8	Guys, don't worry, we're not boycotting you, it's okay. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Activity Report of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2017, Mr. Ivanov, you have quite detailed what you have done in the area of licensing, price regulation, control, general conditions, markets and implementation of European energy legislation, natural gas, water supply and sewerage services, you have mentioned complaints and work with consumers, procedural representation, access to public information, international activity, administrative service and, naturally, financial and business. By the way, the report did not reveal why you had 16 million planned. lv. revenue, but it's only made about $10 million, but it's not that big a deal. At the same time, somehow shy is the obligation of the Commission for energy and water regulation arising from art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 of the Energy Act, namely: "Exercises control, analyzes periodically, examines and has the right to request an amendment and supplement of the pricing mechanisms laid down in the contracts for the long-term buying-in of availability and electricity concluded with the public supplier when they are contrary to European Union law or not in accordance with European Union policies. That says point 6. In this regard, the question arises as to whether the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in implementation of this power has requested information from the Ministry of Finance about the correspondence that this Ministry is conducting with the European Commission on the compatibility of the TPPs contracts, which are clearly not in line with the policies of the European Union. That's why there's no word in the Report. I would like to draw attention to one more aspect of the Commission's obligations described in paragraph 7 of the above-mentioned Article and paragraph of the Energy Act, namely:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Ivanov, in a public participation of his own, I quote you that: The regulator's decisions are of long-term benefit to consumers because the consistent introduction of market principles guarantees sustainability of prices and quality of services offered. That is what you have said, but you know very well that at the moment in Bulgaria there is a conflict between prices and purchasing power of service users and the solution of this problem should be related to achieving a balance between the interests of the parties. It is true that in the process of the full liberalisation of the energy market, the Commission's role in energy and water regulation for price regulation is expected to decrease, as electricity prices and water services will be determined entirely by market mechanisms. At the same time, it is during this period that the regulator must play a significant role in the measures to prepare consumers for the challenges of the liberalised market. It is true that attempts to reduce electricity prices are by no means a working solution in the direction of support for the needy groups, but you are aware, I suppose, according to the Third Energy Package, a commitment of each Member State of the European Union is to provide adequate support to energy vulnerable groups in the course of full market liberalisation, which will ensure that market changes happen without social turmoil. By the way, I've heard you say that, too, so I guess I don't surprise you with what I'm telling you from the stands. This, in turn, implies the creation of safeguard measures that should be both financial and non-financial on the basis of precisely defined criteria for the range of energy vulnerable consumers. Naturally, the aid must not and cannot be given to a calpat, of course, but only according to the needs, because the group of the energy vulnerable is much more numerous than the people who are currently receiving energy aid. The new criteria must include individual groups according to social status, health status, age, disabled, elderly people in remote areas, families with disabled children requiring foreign assistance, although they have incomes above the poverty threshold. There are a lot of options for support and payment, and a target supplement, but it seems to me that the Commission owes the public, at least because it does not take initiatives in this regard. The upcoming rise in the prices of water services due to the need for large-scale investment in the sector is a reason to develop a package of measures for the category of water-vulnerable consumers, in which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works must have a leading role. I would like to remind you here that for months we are in a situation of increase, in some cases more than 50% of the water prices from the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, but we are also waiting for a new law on water operators where these problems with water vulnerable consumers would be solved. Visibly, the regulator has no right to stay away from this issue. In your 2017 Activity Report, I couldn't see anything you wrote about energy or water-vulnerable consumers. Perhaps, Mr. Ivanov, if you take into account the Report, you will inform us of what you did in 2017 in fulfilling your obligation under point 7 of the article and paragraph already cited. It gives the impression that from the World Bank's recommendations for liberalising energy and water sectors in Bulgaria, you have focused only on the markets, market mechanisms and supply, but somehow do not pay attention to consumers and the growing scissors between public utility costs and people's incomes and increasing poverty. I am asking you on this issue because as MPs, I suppose we are all interested in getting the answers, because we need to protect both the interests of the state and the people, not only of business, but also of consumers. [[Heckling]] If, as a Commission in your work, you adhere to the principle, I will quote you again because you said it: "The prices of the services in the public sector should only comply with the legal provisions and economic justification, and not be subject to social factors, because this inevitably leads to adverse consequences for both consumers of these services and suppliers. [[Speaks from Ivan Ivanov]] What action have you taken to protect consumers and rather vulnerable groups of people? After all, the energy and water sector are not designed to provide overprofits to investors of any caliber, as we have seen recently, and with, what to call it, with different degrees of integrity and professionalism. They are sectors designed primarily to provide normal life for the ordinary person, and it is your duty to provide the average person with accessibility to these services. I hope that the KEWRC 2018 Activity Report will find a place and a report on your work in this direction. I would like to say to you that with these remarks the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support the decision of the National Assembly, but I ask you in your activities for the future to pay attention to the social factor that is related to the prices and their tolerance by the population of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I think that this detailed report, which the Commission has proposed to the National Assembly, is a good report. In fact, it is another report which shows that since 2015, when we have made changes to the Energy Act and created a committee that is elected by the National Assembly, a balanced committee where there are no interests of a particular political power or economic power, do not give yourself God, this committee has already validated, established standards of work, established standards of harmony. We see that we have a calm sector, we have a predictability in the sector, we see that there is a balanced policy aimed at both consumers and companies. When we turn our attention to only one side, then the other begins to suffer and, I would say, the whole sector begins to shake, and not only him, but of course, the Water Services sector. There have been many challenges facing the Commission in 2017. There will still be new challenges due to the fact that we are trying to implement absolutely all policies in terms of electricity market liberalisation, the absorption of EU funds in the water sector, because we know that there are also many challenges, there is also reform. All this reflects through the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation. The good work of the Commission and the good communication it has with the National Assembly, I think they immediately reflect on the changes to the Energy Act so that when there are any problems, they can be resolved by this law. It is normal that when we have a changing regulatory framework, there are also problems that need to be addressed operationally. There was a favourable period of reducing the prices of hydrocarbons, which also gave a good environment in which the Commission would calmly define price policy in energy so that it could maintain the liquidity of companies and that consumers would be satisfied with the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation. Unfortunately, this period is over and challenges are beginning to come during the new period during which the Commission must determine the prices of both electricity and heat. There are challenges in the water sector, where it should also approve business plans. These challenges require the Commission to be able to vote on such decisions, which to some extent are both socially oriented but not directed against companies and to reduce their liquidity. We are already seeing such trends in the "Bulgargaz".......................................................................................... are already experiencing difficulties payments to their suppliers. There are impaired liquidity in other companies as well. This shows that the Commission will be under great pressure in making the absolutely right decisions. I'm sure she'll take them, taking into account absolutely all the factors, of course, and the consumer factor, and their ability to pay these bills. This also raises a few questions. One of the questions is: when you approve the business plans of the water sector, whose owners are already the water associations, and you do not have the ability to control the necessary and large-scale investments and made during the 5-year period for which these business plans are, provided that there is no licence, is it not necessary and correct to make a licence to the water sector, that is to say, to be able to do the necessary checks? At some point, when we see that things are not going well, they may be because of unmade investments in the sector, non-performing funds, and at some point to prove that the saved company is quite problematic, that is to say, there must be some such checks that are throughout the period by which to force the company to carry out its business plans and to be oriented towards its users. This should be done in communication with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Environment and Waters, which are involved in this sector. Indeed, such a decision must be made to make more clarity, to have more control in this sector. I think the report is quite punctual, detailed, also shows the international activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It is already a regional factor in the Balkans. At all energy conferences Bulgaria is praised for the implementation of some of the objectives that were set in the renewable energy sources sector. The other reason why Bulgaria is well mentioned everywhere is in relation to the independence of the regulator, and this is, again, I say, based on good communication with the National Assembly, which directly elects this regulator, provides it with an environment for independence, provides it with an environment for peace. However, in order for the regulator's independence to be complete, it had to be done so that this regulator would also be financially independent. With the new changes to the Energy Act, we have also given the regulator this opportunity to have absolute financial independence, he can now have the necessary specialists, with the need for them to be able to work in their sectors, to be able to do thorough analyses and respond adequately to the challenges at the moment. At these conferences, as I said, Bulgaria has been mentioned as an example in this regard of ensuring independence of this regulator, for this reason I think that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, together with the agreements it has with neighbouring countries, is already becoming such a factor that exports good practices to similar regulators in neighbouring countries. I already think that they are setting us as an example even outside the region of how the regulator should act in order to have independence. And I think that if we continue in the same way and look for a balance, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will tackle the challenges we have posed in the new amendments to the Energy Act and the full liberalisation of the electricity market. I salute the entire committee! I think we'll work well from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Commission, I think that anyone who votes to enter this House is waiting to hear what you have done in the last year and what report you will give to the MPs. The Energy Commission in Parliament has been briefed on the report. We discussed it at the Commission. Those gaps were noted there, what will be required even more by the Commission and what it should focus on as work from now on. I will focus mainly on the Commission's activities from now on. Since you were elected, Mr. Ivanov, as the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, during your term of office, there has been a period during which you did not have to raise the price of electricity due to a number of events due to the situation and you did not have much to oppose the politicians, especially the government. They could not push you to reduce the price because the prices of energy raw materials were low. We see that at the latest pricing you are already wondering how to please gassians when asking for an 18% increase in price. How will you, in what way, provide them with the balance? How can you not decapitalise this enterprise? Your main activity is to ensure that prices are balanced, acceptable enough by end customers who are socially poor, and you, through regulation, give them the opportunity to be able to pay their energy service and at the same time enable businesses to be able to be competitive on the European market. I have a little doubt that you don't succumb to the pressure of business. The latest push of business is through pressure to change the laws to try to get a lower price for energy. You haven't caved in yet, you haven't given in, but I wish you could resist. Business is much more insolent than ordinary customers. You can't be sure to have a good regulatory environment when you don't have a stable legal base. And here is my concern that through the new law that we have adopted, we have burdened you with more duties, especially in the field of investigative functions. How and how you will deal with this activity still on me, and I feel that you too are not clear. Without the administrative capacity, without having that financial resource that you need, even though we have changed the Law and you already have the opportunity by getting the additional funds from your activity to improve your financial capabilities and you will have a better budget, but still the human resource, the capacity that you lack, you must do everything possible and as quickly as possible to organise it, that is to create a better organisation so that you can fulfill your legal obligations. However, from the attempts of the rulers and of some of the rulers to try to burden you with legislative activity, we are also worried about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and because GERB, in an effort to please people who have never dealt with legislative activity, invent such legal monsters that not only society, but even an independent commission like yours wonders how, in what way they will perform them. I wish you could find a way to balance energy without decapitalizing electricity productions. But I'm not sure you'll succeed. In the latest pricing, after you received a law that more than 10% of the market can not be given to those Bulgarian energy enterprises that are built and which should also work through regulation, you have to include them in the mix, you have been given a ceiling, where in translation it says: "Close the power plants, because otherwise the European Union will shut them down for us! I don't see how and how TPP-2 can exist in this regulatory environment. I do not see how and in what way, from now on, who wants to invest in energy production in Bulgaria, to find strength within himself, funds and stability, of course, in licensing, in pricing and to decide to come to invest in Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines.]] In fact, everything that is happening in the energy sector in recent months is contrary and is against all investors who want to deal with energy in Bulgaria, which after a certain time will contribute to increasing the price of electricity and thus increasing the energy poor in Bulgaria. I see there's no interest in the MPs. I still wish them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u13	Proceed, Mr. Atalay. I'm thinking right now, I've got a few names in front of me to use the authority of the chairman under art. 159.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u14	However, Mr. Ivanov, I welcome you for the efforts of the entire committee to try to be an independent, balancing regulatory body. My request is to the lawmakers - especially to those who enter populist and try to like society by introducing laws or by blocking holes, driving turkeys and giving certain funds to only one or two in Bulgaria. Such populists do not need the National Assembly, and especially the populists in energy harm us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, you just said you were thinking of using your powers under art. 159. Yesterday you postponed these points to today because they are extremely important and should be present here representatives of the relevant committees. However, I pay attention to you, the first row of GERB, Mr. Tsvetanov and yesterday he was gone, and today he is gone. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Invite him to come here, to the gym. Important points are discussed, the management of GERB is missing. Then why did you postpone those points yesterday? It never made sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Take a look to the left right now. The decisions of the National Assembly are not only ours, they are the National Assembly's. Even when they are not supported by the opposition, they are decisions of the National Assembly. As for Mr. Tsvetanov, we did a background check, he's on a business trip. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Atali's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? If there are no other speeches, Mr. Ivanov, you? Please, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll use art. 159, I assure you. I'm set on this wave today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The report submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to you is the third consecutive report in this composition of the Commission. It clearly outlines what the Commission's priorities are in its work. First of all, the establishment of the legislative framework to allow Bulgarian energy to move towards a fully liberalised market. Secondly, it is the determination of price solutions to be balanced between producers and consumers of the relevant energy, as well as water services. In this respect, I would like to point out that, regarding our efforts to build a regulatory framework in the field of electricity, they were directed in two directions. First, the establishment of the legal framework so that the Bulgarian independent energy exchange can function in all its segments, after its operation in the "Day Forward" segment began at the beginning of 2016. The Exchange is currently operating in the other two segments, namely "On the Day" and "Market under bilateral contracts." Next, which is particularly important and was supported by amendments to the Energy Act, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission acquires new responsibilities and new rights under the rules of REMIT. After the changes in the Law centralized the trade in electricity in the country through the Bulgarian independent energy exchange with the rules of REMIT, the violations of the Exchange were determined, the abuse of it as insider trading, as attempts to manipulate or manipulate the market, what are the powers of the Commission as investigating authority in this case and what are the sanctions imposed on the offenders to be, on the one hand, fair, on the other hand, dissuasive and, on the third hand, equal in nature and size for the relevant offenders, when the infringement is of the same kind. Regarding the price decisions that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is adopting, I would like to point out, because it was specifically examined in Mr Ermenkov's statement that the Commission is indeed guided by clear principles, above all, by the decisions to be in line with the Law and regulations, secondly, the decisions must be fair and, thirdly, the decisions must be sustainable. In this regard, I would like to point out that there should be, as Mr Ermenkov said, a ratio between prices and purchasing power, and in the three years to come, as well as the decision that we are going to take for a price of electricity in just three days, in each of them the Commission sets prices that are below the average wage increase in the country, significantly below the minimum wage increase, below the rate of increase in pensions and below the increase in annual inflation. In all these actions, the Commission shows that it is a truly national responsible body, which seeks to protect the public interest, to lead to a stable price environment which, in turn, enables people to feel at ease as consumers and that business can invest in its activities. And, of course, this is also a good environment for investors, which we create with the sustainable nature of the prices we work with. Regarding the water sector, in the field of water services, the Commission is governed entirely by the two laws on water and regulation of the prices of water services, as well as by the two regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers, to regulate the price and regulate the quality of water. The five-year business plans of most of the water operators were accepted. In this regard, because this problem was addressed by Mr. Ermenkov on the occasion of the recent floods and that in some areas the sewerage system does not function well, please note that in each of the business plans the necessary investments are set in order to ensure that people are fed water of the required quality. Regarding whether the Commission exercises its investment control functions with regard to water and water, each year the Commission shall carry out checks both planned and exceptional to determine whether the necessary repairs have been carried out but also made the necessary investments. If, within the first three years, a sustained trend of default of the investment costs is found, this will result in a price adjustment and a reduction due to the failure of the water operator to meet the objectives set in the business plan concerned. I would like to point out two more moments because Mr. Ermenkov stopped at the two plants in the Marishka pool and the AES and Kontour Global. Let me remind you that it was the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory that was asked by the European Commission to rule on whether inadmissible State aid existed. The long-term dialogue between the Bulgarian institutions and the European Commission led to the conclusion that the two plants were ultimately offered official proposals, which contain clauses for the termination of the current treaties, and I expect negotiations to begin with them as soon as next July, because the three months had expired in which they were committed to come up with counterproposals. The expectations of both the other institutions and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission are that by the end of 2018 these contracts will be put to an end in this form, i.e. they will either be changed or will be terminated at all. Regarding consumers and the communication of the Commission with them, I would like to say very clearly that there is a significant improvement in the communication of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with Bulgarian consumers of energy services and services in the water sector. As confirmation of this, I would point out that an electronic portal, which is being used by citizens to provide the relevant administrative services by the regulator, started functioning. Moreover, we are looking at a very large number of complaints that continue to be numerous: 970 are the complaints in the field of electricity; 275 is the area of thermal energy; and 571 is the area of water services. The Commission shall decide on each of the complaints. In a very large part, these decisions have mandatory instructions from the operator concerned, whether it is a distribution network operator, whether it is a supply company or a water operator. Finally, without exhausting everything I would like to say to you, I would point out that in 2017, as in this year, the Bulgarian energy and water regulator is leading an extremely active international activity. Following the trend that emerges at the state level, the regulator has taken on leadership functions with regard to regulators in the Western Balkan countries. We organized a Balkan Forum in Veliko Tarnovo at the beginning of this year. At the same time, we are the initiator for creating a permanent functioning forum to allow good practices by the Bulgarian regulator, as well as other regulators of EU countries, to be carried over and validated by regulators in the Western Balkans. In this respect, we have their recognition because they and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission are discussing further joint actions together. In conclusion, I will note as a brief summary that in its decisions the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission uses every opportunity that laws and regulations give to make decisions for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian businesses without pressing or killing energy companies. Proof of this is that with the exception of one company, all other companies in the Bulgarian Energy Holding have positive results - something that was not the case three years ago. I would remind you that NEK was in actual bankruptcy at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Ivanov and commissioners! I would like to ask the Commission a question. At the end of last year, the scandal broke out with Inercom and the purchase of the assets of CEZ Electro Bulgaria. We all know what happened. We made a special committee in parliament. It has come to a change in the Law, as you the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have denied our thesis that you can intervene in the deal even then. We amended the Law so that the Commission could intervene in such transactions in order to protect the national interest. In this regard, I ask you: did you get together and discuss what you decided on the letter, which we, from BSP to Bulgaria, submitted to you, accompanied by 200,000. the signature of Bulgarian citizens? In order to remind my colleagues, I will read it: "On the basis of art. 21, para. 1, t. 23 of the Energy Act we refer to the Commission to exercise control over the transaction for the transfer of the assets of the two companies We call on you not to give consent to the disposal of the property of the two companies. In support of our request, we apply 200,000. the signature of Bulgarian citizens. My question is: has the Commission solved this case? Have you fulfilled your new duties with the amended law? Are you back together and what is your opinion? Will you stop the transfer of assets or are you going to give it the green light? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u22	This is not a matter of the agenda!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u23	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, the decision is the same as what has been taken once, at the time, by another committee, by another body on the topic. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] The same is the decision you made in the previous term as MPs when we submitted 530 thousand. the signature of Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u24	Is that on the subject?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u25	Was the other one on the subject?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u26	Mr. Mareshki, continue, but please continue on the subject by making a line for Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u27	Yeah, I'm making a line. The decision is the same when we made $530,000. the signature of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u28	Cut him off!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u29	Of these, 398 thousand were admitted. regular signatures on the topic The robbery of the Bulgarian people by the cartels. The decision was taken and sent to nothingness. Such a country you have created, Mrs. Ninova. You're part of this country! That's how it works, that's why it's the decisions. [[Lowered noise and shouts in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] . So don't look for change when it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u30	Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u31	Mr. Ivanov, I hope this line does not distract you from the answer to the question I asked you because it is essential for millions of Bulgarians. Otherwise, to Mr. Mareshki and colleagues who continue with the gum. My fellow Members, you have made every effort to put me under the influence of Technoimpex. Except you're not saying how this ended. State Agency "National Security" - Not guilty, City Prosecutor's Office - Not guilty, State Financial Inspectorate - Not guilty. And who tells me this about Technoimpex? A man with his immunity dropped and a few criminal cases by the Attorney General who's being investigated! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . All your efforts to prove me guilty and to remove my immunity have not ended in your favor, given that it has been made by institutions and structures that you manage and rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u32	Mrs. Ninova, do you have a duplicate or an explanation right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u33	That was my cue for the Technoimpex on the occasion of discussing electricity prices, both CEZ and Ginka Varbakova. Therefore, gentlemen, take out these decisions of your services that Mrs Cornelia Ninova is innocent! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] And ask yourself why a person with down immunity and several cases sits at the head of the Bulgarian Parliament and has the nerve to make accusations against people who went through the entire centrifuge and came out clean of it! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Krastina Taskova wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. But the services are nobody's. They're national services. There's a word for a procedure in the manner of keeping Mr. Popov. I'll give you the floor, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You violated the Rules by not interrupting Mr. Mareshki's line, which was essentially no line, but a statement that has absolutely nothing to do with the topic we are discussing here today. When we discussed another important topic, Mr. Mareshki went to fill holes in the streets. Now he's come here to ask questions off the subject. Please pay attention to your colleague Mareshki or to talk about it or to walk in full holes! Let him choose! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct, but I ask you to do indeed in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, you just faced the incredible cynicism and did not comment on colleague Filipov. [[Laughter]] Yes, Philip Popov. It's hard to remember your names. [[Laughter]] But get to the point. If I've come out of the subject, then where was your chairwoman in the topic when she talked about disbarred immunitys and so on?! Why didn't you make a comment to Mr. Popov that in his conduct procedure he didn't want you to interrupt his chairman Nino, who had nothing in her backpack about the topic we are discussing right now?! I will ask you for an equal position of all Members of the National Assembly. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will not allow people who have robbed Bulgaria, who have condemned the Bulgarian people to misery, to be censorship. I won't be censored!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u38	I understand. We will not impose censorship on you. There'll be a level playing field. There's a word for a procedure in the way Mrs. Taskova was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. President, I appeal to you because very often in this House you cannot bring order, especially when speaking to colleagues from Volja. Please, if it's hard for you to subdue the BSP colleagues, because if we wanted to be at a football game, we'd be watching a football game and listening to the agitists screaming, but we're in parliament and we want to do our job. Ask Mrs. Ninova, she has experience, let her take them outside. Most of them are men, let them be dealt with as men, and let some well-mannered MPs come in! [[(Applause by.. ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Nikolov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I take the floor in the manner of conduct, because at the beginning you have stated firmly, Mr President, that you will apply the Rules. You even quoted the members as being punished for disorderly conduct. This did not happen because a debate is being corrupted, but it is a report for 2017. In the next few minutes, whatever knocked came to the door. It is said that the CEZ deal took place in 2018, I think, February.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u42	2017!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u43	In 2017, no such transaction was concluded at all. There's no need to use this tribune here to check these things out. There is such a subcommittee to the Energy Committee where such questions can always be asked. There's no interest there. For this reason, I think that this statement is a type of procedure as control of the Minister. We do not have such a procedure in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, except in this subcommittee. I think we should follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You're absolutely right! [[(Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria]] Yeah, he's right! That is why Mr. Ivanov's statement is not necessarily an answer. Mr. Popov, do you also want a procedure in the manner of conduct? Or do you have another note? Here you go. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is also in the manner of conduct [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u46	That's the second time, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u47	Well, that's how the debate goes. You admit it that way. Dear Mr. President, to remind you that here they are trying to mislead you, I am referring to the last speaker, because the CEZ deal and the scandal on this deal began in December 2017. There was a question answered. Here are the representatives of the KEWRC. Let them answer. Why are you hiding them? Why are you hiding them in committees and subcommittees? There's 200,000. The signature, and you are silent and hiding behind some procedures, was not December, it was February.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u48	What you're saying has nothing to do with the way you conduct yourself. Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, you don't have to answer, but if you wish, you can take the floor. Procedure in the manner of conduct...... please come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u49	Dear Mr. President, I call on you to suspend these insane procedures in the manner of conduct. Get to the point! This whole debate with these procedures is caused by an incomprehensible statement and a question to the KEWRC of the type: Did you agree to decide? The KEWRC can't get together and look at the ceiling and decide whether or not to solve something.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u50	Watching the Law, not the ceiling!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u51	When you look at the Law, you see what the criteria in the Law are. And there are no criteria in the Law! In the Law you wrote: "KEWRC to gather and decide." How's he gonna get back together and decide the KEWRC? If you want the KEWRC to do something, change the Law to tell him how to do it, not ask the KEWRC when it will come together to decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u52	Mr. Dobrev, please, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u53	They don't get together to decide sitting down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u54	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, will you answer? Here you go. [[Reply of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Mr. Stoinev, he doesn't have to answer because the question wasn't related to the report. Mr. Ivanov's understanding is another matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although part of my answer has been said in the course of the debates that have taken place, I would like to take the floor so that it is not considered that the Commission remains indifferent to the question that Mrs Nino asked. Dear Mrs. Ninova! I will not use the formal argument that we are actually looking at the 2017 Report, which is why nothing related to CEZ has found a place there. There will be a debate in our 2018 report. I'm going on from here on out with this. You referred to a collected petition, which also has no motives, and there is only one sentence. The Bulgarian legislation provides for the petitions to be taken into account when calling referendums. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission strictly respects the Bulgarian legislation. If you wish such a signature to be taken into account in a Commission decision on energy and water regulation, please, you and your colleagues submit a proposal to this text, which has so far been included as blank, that one of the criteria is that the Commission refuses at 200 thousand signatures. We will implement the Law, but when there is no such text, we cannot make a decision that must rest on the law and regulations on the basis of such a signature. [[Applause from GERB.]] Secondly, the text adopted by the National Assembly is a really blank text. He doesn't respond to a few basic things. Firstly, it does not show any criteria on the basis of which the Commission is to rule. It did not even comment on whether the Commission has similar capacity and administrative potential for such a pronouncement. Because the text adopted by the National Assembly says that the national security and public order are not jeopardised. Excuse me, fellow Members, you have previously been my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Public order and national security are subject to other state institutions. In other words, the Law must clearly describe who is pronounced by this wording. Next, no regulatory authority in the European Union has such powers to rule in advance on a transaction of a private nature, that is, we cannot use good practice for our colleagues from the European Union. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission itself, within the framework of its 19-year activity, has never had such powers. For this reason we do not have this administrative potential. This was the main reason why, at a meeting of the subcommittee, which Mr. Valentin Nikolov spoke about, we asked for an external legal consultation to be sought in order to formulate the criteria on which the Commission could rule. At the moment, this has not been done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Stoynev, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, when a scandal breaks out, we do not watch when the media mostly show this scandal or comment on it politicians. It really exploded in 2017. So, first, it's quite reasonable and normal to ask for 2017. What was the Commission's attitude on energy and water regulation? Secondly, you are elected by the National Assembly and it is quite normal for the MPs to ask questions and you to answer them. Thirdly, when the Law is changed, this is not blank at all, but are concrete proposals that have been adopted by the ruling majority. And you, Mr. Ivanov, the entire committee is obliged to abide by the Law. Whether he's handsome or not, you have to follow him! It is not your place to come here and from this stands to comment on it. You understand me very well! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So when you follow the Law, you have to rule when it comes to asset transfer when it comes to licensing. From now on, the responsibility, as much as you want to run away from it, is all yours! So don't run away from responsibility, but go into function. If you need funds, if you need experts, that is why Parliament is, so there is a National Assembly and budgets are voted so that you can do your job normally. From now on, the bill that has been passed by all Members of the National Assembly and transferred to you this responsibility, you are obliged to rule on it. This responsibility has been voted on by all Members of the National Assembly. So when it comes to such a large-scale, vague, dark deal that blows up public space, you need to sit down and talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u58	Mr. Stoinev, may I ask you to return to the subject: a report by the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u59	What is really missing in this report is that you should have had a specific comment on this deal as well. From now on, don't transfer responsibility, just do your job. What you lack, ask the National Assembly to give you or, if not, by someone else. After all, you have to do your job. And that's your job!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u60	Mr. Stoynev! I'm putting you back on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u61	Another is the subject, another is the reason why, at the time, the commission itself, when it was seen that this deal was entirely opaque and would hardly have a financial institution to finance...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u62	Mr. Stoynev! You are in the hypothesis of infringement under art. 157 to remind you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u63	Thank you for that, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going back to your violations, but I don't accept commissioners giving the MPs any sense of how to vote the laws. You just have to do them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u65	Dear Mr. Stoynev, you know very well that there is a Committee for Monitoring the activity of KEWRC. This committee shall hold regular meetings. There is a point called blitzcontrol, which is held almost every month. I object to your attempt to turn the House of the National Assembly into blitzcontrol into the Specialized Committee for the KEWRC. If you had any questions, you should have gone to ask them there. My line, actually, and I want you to listen to me very well, it's about something else. Will you confirm that from this tribune you are trying to put pressure on the independent regulator to make a decision on the basis of a legal text, without criteria......................................................................................... And if the regulator takes such a decision and follows a criminal arbitration procedure or any other with which Bulgaria is wronged, will you personally be responsible for what you are doing at the moment from the stand of the National Assembly?! [[Applause from GERB.]] We understand that you all have great political ambitions, Mr. Stoinev! However, do not use the National Assembly stands and do not risk harming the state by pursuing your own or your party and political ambitions. Treat this with the right dose of seriousness. If you really want the KEWRC to rule, introduce a change in the Law to introduce criteria, because on the contrary means that you are challenging and exerting pressure on the regulator to take a decision, and if this decision has negative consequences for the state, will you take personal responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I wish I could start with what I don't want to say: did you come to mine? [[Radio.]] My line is, first of all, to Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Stoinev, I respected you both as a minister and as a representative of the National Assembly. You were misled by GERB to submit a law that would not work, and now you have found that this law does not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u68	Mr. Atalay, I'm going to ask you for the map.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u69	Mr. Stoyev, when GERB failed you to support the nationalists and to make sure that today Mr. Dobrev gets out here and worries whether the arbitration will be won, and whether afterwards the Inercom and CEZ will not condemn us for the failed deal, all the more so that you voted for this law. For this law alone, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms did not vote because the Law did not have criteria. In the Law you wrote that if 20% of the shares were transferred, the KEWRC would take an attitude. What criteria do they have to take when they look at the ceiling? If they refuse, what rules do they refuse? If they decide to give her consent, what for? Colleagues, the Energy Act in Bulgaria is a specialized law and the only law that gives KEWRC the right to intervene in this deal by appointing a special manager after the deal is concluded. Colleagues, when laws are passed here, you can't accept them just because you have to support your teammate who doesn't know what to do on the field. Today you can't go out and push the state to lose 870 million. Arbitrage and two times 320 million. euros from a deal that the Bulgarian people will have to pay. You've gone too far! That's not good, guys! I don't want to make an example of you. My respect Mr. Stoynev was a minister, and then we often talked about those things that should be in the public interest. Today, to come to power, you should not push and explain to GERB how they do not do their job by bringing the state into billions...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u70	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u71	Don't call, I'm watching. Mr. Atalay, your line time is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u72	Time's up, guys! Thank you. [[(Radio.) Partial applause from the DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Third line? I won't. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u74	Thank you. It is strange that the synchronization of GERB and DPS will suddenly rediscover the hot water and you seem to be hearing about a law that you yourself have supported, colleagues! You voted this law. The most normal thing in a country is to abide by the laws. This is exactly what we in opposition want. 23a, which reads: the KEWRC authorises actions by way of disposal of shares and shares representing more than 20 per cent of the capital of commercial companies engaged in licensing activities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I can't figure out what the problem is. What will be the decision of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is a completely different topic. They can define this deal as wonderful, they can support it, they can say it's the best investor. We don't know what their decision is. Of course, we will comply with the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation. This isn't about any arbitration. We simply want the Commission to comply with the law and to rule. I think this is the most normal thing, and you, as MPs, should defend the law. What's the answer, I can't tell. Maybe you know what the answer is. After all, we submitted 200,000 signatures to Bulgarian citizens who are worried about this particular investor. But this investor could be an exceptional investor, a company that you said might be false news.. has huge capital. We do not know her, and that is why it is quite normal for the Commission to rule in the end. And what will the Commission say, this is a completely different topic for debate, and I cannot say whether we can debate at all. [[GERB lines.]] After all, this committee has been elected by the National Assembly and I consider it quite normal when we adopt a report to answer specific questions as well. However, this does not affect their work in any way. We don't influence their work in any way, we just ask questions and we want answers. That we want them to comply with the Law, I think it is quite normal and should not even come to these lines. When the Law is voted on, it just has to be respected. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Volja.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u76	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, dear Bulgarian citizens! That is why we are in this situation because my esteemed Mr. Atalay tells my colleague Mr. Stoynev: I respected you as Minister. So, for what work of Mr. Stoinev as Minister, how did he improve the energy in Bulgaria, so you respect him?! How can we explain it to normal Bulgarian citizens that someone who has led to poverty and poverty can be respected at all?! [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] I'm moving on. The cynicism with which we listen to someone explain to us that he is more worthy to be a privatizer, even formally, under the law, but it is not certain, that it is moral, how can we explain it to the person who is being stolen by the chickens that he is less worthy than Cornelia Ninova to be a privatist of the Technoimpex?! [[General applause from GERB.]] How do we explain to reporters and operators that they have to work daily, while someone simply has to use their position to become a privatizer and is now the proud owner of the "Technoimpex" - even formally, legally executed?! [[Reply: "Bravo!" by GERB.]] Is it moral for the other Bulgarian citizens?! I know that everyone will use their power to do so by law. Every Bulgarian citizen knows this thing. For the entire privatization process that has passed, not only Cornelia Nino has not been convicted, there is no convicted privatist! Then shall we explain to the Bulgarian people that all this is moral?! I'm going to touch on another subject because it's become very personal. Can we say that a family of BSP MPs is part of a criminal group or is involved in crimes after a family member has been shot for so many years?! Is this about legitimate business or criminal transactions?! Can we say this thing or can't we?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u77	Do you hear what you're saying?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u78	We're going further. No, now you're gonna hear what I'm talking about. Now listen, just be quiet and be quiet. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u79	Mr. Mareshki, I'm going to ask you in the statement on behalf of a parliamentary group to stick to good manners. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u80	Absolutely to the good tone that you didn't stop just now. I will say: when a member of parliament from BSP for Bulgaria is not clear about which Bulgaria is not clear, he is charged with buying votes, I ask: can it be that Cornelia Ninova is standing here, at the first bank with some of these bought votes. Does she have the right to be a moral judge and ask us questions, to ask any questions at all, and to ask the subject of our society?! [[General applause from GERB.]] Well, imagine that tomorrow this MP is convicted and it turns out that part of these bought votes has been chosen Cornelia Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u81	The court will decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u82	Is this morality in Bulgaria?! The court will decide, yes. But I ask: if he decides...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u83	And if he doesn't?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u84	What if he doesn't... For me, he's decided the court. Well, we wait for the court to decide. Why is Cornelia Ninova asking this topic? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Exactly: Whatever called for it called for it. If he decides that Cornelia Ninova is asking questions with bought votes here at the bank, what are we doing?! Do we have to take it all back and erase it from history?! And the sooner this happens, the better! Dear colleagues, get to work for the benefit of society! Yeah, someone probably doesn't like that we filled holes and solved one person's problem. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But solve the problem of more people you! Isn't that what we're pushing you to do?! After all, if we solve people's problems, even one person, even part of society, you only steal them! We are in this situation and people are in this situation because you are part of this plundering transition! [[Noise and lines.]] Please: a little modesty, get down on the ground, meet more people! If you want, I'll take you together, I'll take Cornelia to see this guy together. He, as a sign of respect for the fact that she at least spoke on the subject, not that she did anything, but at least she spoke on the subject, named the karaoke Cornelia that we know from the local media. [[Laughter at GERB, excitement.]] The fact that she was talking at least told me to go and do the job.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u85	Mr. Mareshki, once again, I urge you not to disturb the good tone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u86	Please: a little more reality, get down on the ground and work for the benefit of the people! Thank you. [[(Relations, noise, excitement.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, this House deserves a completely different level of debate, and when the level of debate reaches such dimensions, it is only right that you send it to fill your holes in front of the office. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u89	Thanks for the note, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u90	Indeed, I thought even for a personal explanation, but it is better for you, Mr. Chairman, because you once again prove that you can hardly lead this National Assembly at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u91	Please don't give me an evaluation here from the National Assembly's stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u92	Even if I don't give you one, you understand that I give you one, because you allow it here in the National Assembly... I don't even have anything to say here for a personal explanation. I, if there is anything to talk about debates, who has done what, it is with colleagues from GERB, where to lead, to have a worthy debate. With people who fill holes, they cannot write a law and do not know what they are doing here, but sit and just make the hall laugh, and you, colleagues of GERB, tolerate this thing here and even clap, then we have no reason to wonder why this is the image of the National Assembly. But when it really is about clowns who have come here only and only... not by the will of the people, this is what happens. And you, Mr. Chairman, Vice-President, are really showing once again that you are unworthy of holding a plenary session. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u93	Mr. Popov, come in. I will refrain from responding to Mr. Stoinev's personal attacks because they are unworthy of a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u94	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, because you are not fulfilling your commitments under the Rules of Procedure. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 of our Rules clearly states that the following disciplinary measures apply: reminder, remark, reprimand. You have made a remark several times to Mr. Mareshki, only that you have failed to execute the next punishment, namely to take him away because the word of a Member of Parliament has been taken away from him, who has received several of the disciplinary measures. You did the first part, but you didn't take his word away, but you left him here free to pour hate, false news. [[proclaims: "Eeeee!" by GERB, OP and Volya "]] To speak, I apologize for the expression, the nonsense of this tribune. That is why I appeal to you: You should have taken away his word and entered into your role in order to continue normal management and discipline in the parliamentary hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Just to remind you, that was on behalf of a group. You're welcome, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure for you in the manner of conduct concerns exactly the last conversation and that the so-called declaration by Mr. Mareshki... By the way, the thing that pisses me off the most is the possibility of a person with pending cases giving me morale. It just pisses me off, but that's the job of the Assembly with a Vice-President. My procedure is specific to you: once again we come to the same text, which is read differently every time, in the sense: is there a possibility that a person can make a personal explanation in case it is a statement, but it is on behalf of a group. It is a statement in the Chamber. I can now take the floor on behalf of a group and say inhumane things about Mr. Velchev, who I see standing before me, or Mr. Tsvetanov, if he stands in his place. Does that mean one of them has no right to answer me?! That doesn't make any sense! Whether it is on behalf of a group or not on behalf of a group does not mean that the person concerned is unable to respond in our Rules. Since this dispute is already being fought for the 17th time, including here Volen Siderov and someone else, to whom I do not remember the name, jumped and would have fought three days ago, is this what I think we should decide once and for all: do we have the right, or do we not, because each time this part of the Rules is read differently? Therefore, I appeal to you: find a way with Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva or with a decision of the National Assembly to at least have a clear interpretation of this text. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. [[The National Representative Stanislav Stanilov gives lines to the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Colleagues, I suggest we continue with the work and move on to the vote. [[Replications from OP and from MP Anton Kutev, who is going to PG of OP.]] Mr. Kutev, colleagues, please! Mr. Kutev, please sit down! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Kutev, please sit down. I ask the Quaestors to intervene! [[Relation of lines between MPs from OP and MP Anton Kutev.]] I ask the Quaestors to intervene decisively! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u98	Keep leading like this, keep leading!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u99	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. [[Extending loud noise and lines.]] Mrs. Ninova, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u100	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please calm down, everyone. I'm asking you for three minutes to change this tone of personal assaults, fake news and so on. [[Extending loud noise and lines from GERB: Where did it start?]] I would like to put to your attention a big theme and a big issue, which in this commotion will pass, will go away and will be another nail in the coffin of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Colleagues, do you understand what happened in this room? I'm talking about the big and important thing today?! State institution or independent body KEWRC challenged a public law passed by the Bulgarian Parliament, before you, before us the authors of the Law. [[Extending loud noise and lines.]] An independent body elected by parliament declares from the stand that it refuses to comply with this law because it is not qualified.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u101	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u102	A parliamentary group that has supported this law, which is an importer of this law, came out and said to the independent body: don't do it because it has no particulars and is blanquet. [[Executing noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, this is an extremely serious thing in the parliamentary republic, not our personal throwing and trying to charm one another! Do you understand what is happening in the hall, in the state and how the last remaining foundations of statehood and of Bulgaria are being destroyed?! At the place where the laws are forged, the people who have signed them give up, and an authority elected by parliament comes out before us and tells us: I will not obey your law because it is blanquet and evil! [[Extending loud noise and lines.]] Where are we going, guys?! Where's parliament going?! Where's the country going?! And what do all these people think they've sent us here looking at us right now?! The ruling majority contests its own law, and a body elected by parliament tells you: you are good for nothing, I will not enforce your Law because it is bad. [[Executing noise and lines.]] Wake up! Let's all wake up, because we are doing this to our country and our people. There's talk here about who's morally entitled to go out on the stand. The only criterion for moral right is that one million standing behind us; that one million and 100,000 standing behind you, behind your colleagues from the DPS, behind the Patriots, that's the moral right. These people are our moral criteria. What are we doing today?! Who has how many charges, with what immunity is removed, while such a slap is struck at parliamentaryism today with the support of the government and with a single body elected by parliament?! I appeal to you with an appeal or I don't know what to do anymore: let's get it together! We ourselves cause the death of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Then we have no one to be angry with if our state, institutions and statehood are in total chaos. And those people who sent us here do not see in us those who will solve their problems and will move Bulgaria forward. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Just for clarification: in Mr. Ivanov's statement I did not feel a challenge to the Law, on the contrary, he declared that he would fulfill what was written in the laws by which he was governed. He stated that he had no authority under this law to do what you urged him to do. The way you're running things? [[Calls MP Valentina Naydenova.]] You too, Mr. Atalay?! Aren't we overdoing it, guys?! I don't mind, you can speak up, but so many ways to conduct yourself now?! I think it's time to get on with our serious business. You have the floor, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning, we voted for the Commission I respect to enter the Chamber and remain in today's debate. I am making a procedural proposal to release the Commission. I guess she's no longer needed. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u105	Thank you. Disgusting opinion? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Atalay, you have the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u106	Mr. Chairman, I accept Mrs. Cornelia Nino's call to calm down because the subject we are dealing with is very serious. In the manner of conduct you have given Mrs Cornelia Ninova to speak on the subject that we are discussing today in the Chamber with which you made a mistake. So I'm going to take the liberty of saying two sentences. Ms. Ninova, the bill was tabled by your political power, by Tasko Ermenkov..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course it was supported by Mr. Dobrev, because Mr. Tsvetanov pressed it. Mr. Tsvetanov pressed it and said: we will accept because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u107	Mr. Atalay, to me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u108	It's the way I say it. ...the nationalists would have voted against it and the deal would have been broken. Dear colleagues, energy is a very serious sector in Bulgaria's economy. The Energy and Water Regulatory Committee is doing everything possible to be at the level not of the National Assembly, but of the independent regulator, but the level of the National Assembly we saw. Colleagues, I have been in this Chamber for many years, but in recent years words have started to be heard as liars, as thieves. Things that society, when it hears what we are talking about, I think of Mr. Guinho Ganev, who said: "When people see what kind of ministers and MPs there are, they all want to become ministers and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. You were far from the way you behaved, but because of the particular meaning of the word, in the good sense of your speech, I listened with interest to what you said. Colleagues, I suggest we stop and move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] See the meaning of the proposal where it is and then. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have allowed the Commission here, please! I will put to the vote the draft decision, which was presented by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, on the report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 102, against 48, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u110	Dear Members of the National Assembly, the next item is: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR PROTECTION OF THE 2017 CONSTRUCTION An opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism has been delivered. The President of the Commission will introduce us to him. Mr. Kanev. You have the floor, Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u111	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 49 of our rules, I ask for access to the Chamber of Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u112	We are voting on Mr. Dimitar Kyumurdjiev's motion for admission. Vote 100 MPs: 95 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mr. Kyumurdzhev to the hall. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u113	Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of competition for 2017, No 820-00-15, submitted by the Commission on the protection of competition on 30 May 2018 The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 13 June 2018 examined and discussed the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, who presented the Annual Report. This report is submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the requirements of art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition. It reflects the results achieved, the main findings, conclusions and assessments of the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition during the reporting period, as well as the objectives set before it for the following year. The Commission's priorities for protection of competition in 2017 were focused on ensuring the protection and sustainable development of markets and free economic initiative. The Commission has made efforts to increase efficiency in the control of concentrations between undertakings. A separate sector analysis examined the negotiation mechanisms and pricing processes of the goods with their own brands of the retail chains and the goods with brands of a producer. During the reporting period, it was found that the infringements found in the area of unfair competition are most often related to unfair behaviour contrary to the general prohibition of unfair competition followed by infringements representing imitation and misleading advertising. Several decisions have also been made on the new ban on the abuse of a stronger position in negotiation. In the exercise of its powers of advocacy for competition, the Commission for Protection of Competition adopted opinions and made proposals to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Code and the Food Act. The statistical activity of the KPC is as follows: In 2017, the Commission for Protection of Competition formed a total of 1117 proceedings, of which 139 under the Law on Protection of Competition, 9575 under the Public Procurement Act and 21 under the Law on concessions. In the period covered by the report, the definitions and decisions adopted by the Commission were in total 1445, i.e. 302 more than 2016, of which 847 decisions and 598 definitions. During the reporting period, the Commission has completed the relevant proceedings under those laws, made allegations of infringements committed or imposed fines on natural persons for infringements committed by them under the Law on Protection of Competition or for failure to provide information, and the rest are the acts by which the Commission for Protection of Competition ruled on other matters of its competence. The Commission, by decisions adopted in 2017, imposed fines and property penalties of a total amount of more than 12.5 million. lv. In 2017, three proceedings were initiated in the Commission, which had as their object the existence or absence of infringement under Chapter 3 of the Law on the Protection of Competition, and two of them were initiated on the basis of the Commission's decisions on the basis of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law, i.e. on its own initiative, and the third is at the request of persons whose interests are affected or threatened by a violation of the Law. In 2017, the Commission for Protection of Competition carried out a total of 3 on-the-spot checks on production since 2016. In 2017, the Commission issued 13 decisions on the application of art. 15 of the Law on Procedure, formed in 2015 and 2016. In 2017, the number of decisions increased many times compared to 2016, mainly due to the large number of proceedings initiated in the previous years. In the framework of the sectoral analysis of the competitive environment of the insurance market in the country, the Commission has established the existence of conditions in the settlement of trade relations between insurance companies and insurance intermediaries, which restrict the possibility of insurance intermediaries to make a call to their final customers at the expense of their own remuneration, in which case the Commission for Protection of Competition initiates 9 proceedings to establish a possible infringement by insurance companies. In 2017, 8 proceedings were initiated with the purpose of establishing the existence or absence of infringements of a monopoly or dominant position which were initiated at the request of persons whose interests were affected or threatened by a breach of the Law. 12 decisions have been made. Property sanctions and fines of 4 decisions for more than 6 million have been imposed. lv. In 2017, the Commission for Protection of Competition carried out an analysis of the information contained in a total of 377 notifications and reasoned requests for concentration between undertakings sent by the European Commission, whose assessment periods for the implementation of the procedure under the Merger Regulation expire on 31 December 2017. In 2017, the Commission, by its decision, initiated a sectoral analysis of the markets in food and fast-moving goods. In 2017, a total of 81 proceedings were initiated in the Commission aimed at establishing the existence or absence of infringements under Chapter 7 of the Competition Protection Act "Untrue Competition'. 73 proceedings were initiated by the Commission, and Chapter....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of these, 71 were formed at the request of persons whose interests were affected or threatened by a violation of the Law, 4 on the grounds of self-trialisation, on the basis of signals submitted by citizens and as a result of their own market observations, and 6 on files returned by the Supreme Administrative Court for a new ruling. By 27 decisions, the Commission has identified violations of Chapter 7 and Chapter seven "seven' of the Law on Protection of Competition and has imposed property penalties and/or fines of a total amount of more than 6 million. lv. The most frequent distortions in the area of unfair competition established in 2017 are related to unfair behaviour contrary to the prohibition on unfair competition under Article 1. 29 of the Law, followed by unholy conduct contrary to the prohibition of imitation under art. 35 of the Law and unholy conduct contrary to the prohibition of misleading under art. 31 of the Law. In 2017, a total of 87 complaints were submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court against the decisions and definitions given by the Commission for Protection of Competition. The Supreme Administrative Court has ruled a total of 108 appeals, with 46 acts remaining in force, 7 files being returned for a new ruling, 7 acts being definitively revoked, of a three-member Chamber. The Supreme Administrative Court has given its final ruling with 48 decisions and definitions, leaving the Commission's acts for protection of competition in force with 33, returning one file for a new ruling and completely repealing 14 acts of the Commission for Protection of Competition. In general, the Commission for the Protection of Competition has the necessary resources and expertise to effectively protect competition by resolving market problems. In this way, protection is also achieved for the interests of citizens, market participants and society as a whole. The annual report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017 sets out the priorities and objectives of the Commission's activities for 2018. During the discussion the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) asked questions about the sectoral analysis of fuels, the nature of the issued acts, the collection of fines and the stage at which the verification of the purchase of the companies of CEZ Group in Bulgaria by Inercom ЕAD, to which the President and Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition responded. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION on the Annual Activity Report to the 2017 Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u114	Are there any who wish to speak on the Report and the proposal for a decision? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems to me that it is not normal for such an important report concerning the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition to go without debate, and I will therefore allow myself a few words on the subject. I will not talk about these powers and actions of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which are given to it for procedures concerning the Public Procurement Act. They really take away the huge part and engage her work. However, for me, it has always been more important what the Commission for Protection of Competition has in these designated powers, which, you know, we have several times further developed, namely: Chapter seven, Chapter four, concerning the abuse of a stronger negotiating position, the abuse of a monopoly or a dominant position. We have made the relevant legislative changes and given the Commission the opportunity to have these powers, namely: to monitor market freedom, free competition. From there you know that this is ultimately for the benefit of all consumers and all participants in the relevant sectors. I have carefully familiarized myself with the Report and the Commission's proceedings on these decisions concerning the companies concerned in the insurance sector and on the proceedings that were in the electricity distribution companies and on the fuel sector industries and many others that were the subject of the Commission's work. What seems to me to be missing and it is like an interaction between the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Bulgarian National Assembly is precisely a much more active role of the Commission, and hence already on the obstacles, the difficulties it encounters in its work, these proposals to be able to submit to the National Assembly and become the respective legislative regulations and legislative texts. Although we have had disagreements with the Commission for Protection of Competition, for example from a legislative initiative of ours, as was the proposal of our parliamentary group for amendments to the Food Act, there we got away with it, the Commission's opinion for Protection of Competition did not support the proposed changes, and they were in support of the Bulgarian producers and their presence in the retail chains, guaranteed presence in the retail chains, does not mean that there should not be much stronger interaction and demand between the two institutions. My appeal here is also to the Commission for Protection of Competition. We know that we have given powers that are not light and are difficult to apply in practice, and European practice shows this. We therefore rely very much on you to make proposals and they will meet the corresponding change in the law. Because your most important power in my opinion is really to guarantee the free competition and equality of all market participants. This is your great calling, and I want to tell you that this is one of your functions, which we will monitor very closely from here on out. I wish these sectoral analyses that you did, these depth analyses didn't end with just one report and one finding. The point of these actions is that these reports and findings should then be written in the relevant legal texts and applications so that Bulgaria really becomes a good place to do business. You see, we are trying to be constructive in this discussion. I also took the liberty of saying something in the debate that was in the Commission. Finally, however, I will allow myself to make a remark to the Commission for Protection of Competition. It, among other things, honourable members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, also gives a very clear signal to foreign investors, at all, to all investors in Bulgaria, with the procedures that there are in concentration and the permissions that you give respectively. And there I wish, by making these decisions of yours, that you be guided by this responsibility that you bear, namely not to receive such a type of situation or such a type of doubt that it is evident in some or other cases that the Commission does not measure with the same arsin. I'm not gonna set up specific cases right now, but what do I mean? Sometimes the Commission for Protection of Competition is very quick to rule on a request. Sometimes it takes months to produce and then pronounce. I think you understand what this is about. There was a bank that had one pronunciation. A moment ago, it was the scandal of an electrical distribution company standing with you. There's a TV on the market right now. And I wish that in these actions you would be guided by the corresponding responsibility and be precise enough, because we are thus signaling to the business environment in Bulgaria, and there, in my opinion, such a type of regulatory authority should set an example in that they are guided only by the provisions of the law and by the interests of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Kirilov asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to take an opinion on the Commission's Annual Report on Protection of Competition, as an ordinary MP, albeit not a member of the respected Committee on Economic Policy. Our Committee on Legal Affairs in the previous year, in the beginning of this Parliament and in the final of the previous one, had many reasons to interact with the newly elected composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition and with the experts working in the Commission. For this reason, I would like to express my definitely satisfaction with the activity, the participation, the views of my colleagues from the Commission for Protection of Competition. I believe that they fulfil their legal obligation to participate in the legislative process through opinions extremely active. They have responded to serious challenges that have been faced by our legal system in several draft laws in the Law on concessions, both of which have participated in the Public Procurement Act and are currently continuing the participation of representatives and directors of the Commission in the discussions on the Administrative Procedure Code. I believe that my fellow Members have established their professional position in the complex procedures of their far-reaching activities. So I would like to congratulate them, encourage them and support them. I would also like to share that about a month ago, although not in the reporting period of the Report we are discussing, I had the opportunity to personally verify the authority of the Bulgarian Commission for Protection of Competition in the context of the other committees in Europe, as our Commission for Protection of Competition hosted the celebrations in relation to the European Competition Day. I have witnessed the collegial attitude of other professionals in the field, with which they respect their Bulgarian colleagues. All of this, although I am not directly and directly in the kitchen of their activities, gives me reason to believe that the Bulgarian competition authority and anti-monopoly body has established its serious place in this activity, which, in truth, is strictly regulated by European law and requires a very high standard of precision. I wish this job would move on. I know that an open meeting of the Commission is held today and that is why the President of the Commission cannot be present in person, but I see that the Vice-President of the Commission is here. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the entire composition cannot be present, but I hope that through it my admiration and wishes for success will be passed on to the Commission. Of course, there is always more to try, more to achieve, more to be precise, but I would say that when we have had a legislative case and a request for a reaction from the Commission, we have reacted at a reasonable time and with the corresponding responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u119	Colleagues, I'll do my best to be as brief as ever. You remember the serious turbulences a year ago when we had to proceed with the selection of a new leadership of the Commission for Protection of Competition. You remember that after two failed attempts finally half a year ago, I think a little more, we already have one leadership, one team of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Naturally, not everything looks as legit and as beautiful as described in the Report, it is quite normal. Quite naturally, at the very meeting of our Commission, there were many questions addressed to the Commission's management. This is one of the most important committees, I would say that this is a vertical committee dealing with all sectors of our economy, which does not deal with purely sectoral policies, as is the KEWRC, as is the Consumer Protection Commission, the Financial Supervision Commission and so on. So I would like to say a few more words about the work of this committee. You can see from the figures that were drawn in the meeting of our Economic Policy Committee, you can see the ratio between the files under the Public Procurement Act "960" last year from a total of 1117 all types of files. The trend continues, it is also governed by the Law and by the powers that we entrusted to our committee, continues the serious volume of files under the Public Procurement Act, although in the Law that we adopted, the main tasks of the KPC are mainly competition. The total number of proceedings initiated under the Law on Protection of Competition is significantly lower than that of the Act on Protection of Competition. This is, of course, objectively conditional on the fact that the number of proceedings depends on the number of complaints lodged. However, it should not be forgotten that the Commission's activities in implementing competition legislation are of utmost importance for the development of our economy as a whole. In carrying out this task, it is necessary for the KPC to make more fully use of the possibilities for initiating own-initiative proceedings to establish infringements under Chapter Three of the Law. These are prohibited agreements, decisions and concerted practice. In view of the fact that the Commission for the Protection of Competition has on its own a significant volume of information relating to public procurement, it would be appropriate to analyse this information in such a way as to allow concrete conclusions to be drawn on possible possibilities for the presence of so-called tender manipulations. It is like a metastasis, as a cancer entity already in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act,.. the handling of tender documents in certain regions or in certain activities, and accordingly checks for infringements should be carried out. The fight against such violations should be uncompromising. Finally, more attention has also been paid to the advocacy for competition, what Zhelyo Boychev spoke about just a moment ago, about the market environment, about the business environment, carrying out an assessment of compliance with the rules of competition of the draft regulations and the existing ones is extremely important and I would like the Commission's management in the future to pay more attention to this preventive activity. Thank you for your attention and success to the Commission in its future work!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any MPs who want a line. Are there any other statements? No Members of the National Assembly have been recorded. I don't see any requests from the gym either. Mr. Kyumurdzhiev, will you take an attitude if you wish, of course, you don't have to? No. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are about to vote on the draft decision proposed in the Commission Report, which the President of the Commission Mr. Kanev briefed us on. Project! DECISION on the 2017 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017 Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 96, against 3, abstention 30. The motion for a decision has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to the next point of our weekly programme, and it is: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENT FOR 2017 Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, 9 May 2018. With the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mrs. Radoslava Chekanska will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska. Let's hear the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "Please allow Borislav Chalakov, Deputy Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u122	Thank you. Please vote for admission to Mr. Borislav Chalakov's room. Vote 109 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Chalakov to take his place in the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u123	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on an activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2017, No 804-00-5, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 May 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 14 June 2018, the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report for 2017, No 804-00-5, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 May 2018. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Maxim Minchev General Director, Borislav Chalakov Deputy Director General, and Dancho Antonov Financial Director. The activity report of the Agency was presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev and submitted as required by Article. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency is the source of more than 18% of the information in Bulgaria. The report traditionally contains information on the activities of the Agency, the role of the media market, international contacts, financial situation, the functioning of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs. In his speech Mr. Minchev defined 2017 as good for BTA and noted the successful coverage of the preparation and holding of the parliamentary elections. He pointed out that the Agency distributes about 1,000 information daily and between 2000 and 3000 photos from the country and the world. During the 13th World Media Meeting in Chisinau, Moldova, a new 16th regional Press Club opened in Taraklia, which is second outside Bulgaria after that in the town of Taraklia. Bosillegrad. The report has once again cut off the two most serious problems for BTA, which also apply to many agencies around the world: the unauthorised use of information by the national agency, which affects its financial revenues and the correct citation of the source of customer information with a signed partnership contract, which damages the authority and scale of the Agency. Following an annual analysis of BTA production and its implementation on the market, two conclusions are drawn which the Agency will follow: to create accurate and timely information using verified and authoritative own and foreign sources, and to create niche, specialised emissions for individual target groups. In relation to the financial situation of BTA, it is noted that a budget of 7 million was formed in 2017. Two hundred and eighty-eight Of these, the transfer from the state budget is 4 million. 836 thousand. lv.; election funds of MPs from 192 thousand lv.; 500 thousand. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 768 thousand. lv. In comparison with 2016 own revenue was increased by 141 thousand. BGN, as the aim is to increase the relative share of own revenues after an in-depth market analysis. During the discussion the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Krasimir Bogdanov expressed support for the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. After the discussion the MPs from the Culture and Media Committee unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to accept the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2017, No 804-05 submitted by the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u124	Please also present the draft decision, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u125	Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. Dear colleagues, a guest of the National Assembly today is the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic Radek Vondracek, who is on the balcony of the plenary. Mr. Vondrachek is on a one-day official visit to Bulgaria. Please welcome him! [[(People's representatives and guests are up. (Applause)]] Thanks, guys. We are continuing the debate. Are we going to have an importer's motive? No. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! As in the Commission, today we confirm our position that we will support the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. I remember that in the election of Mr. Maxim Minchev as Director-General of this tribune, we reiterated our support by expressing that the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has remained as a kind of oasis in the Bulgarian media environment in relation to the lack of false news, a problem that concerns all of us, especially lately. It is also important to note that the activity of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency in fullness is expanding and the offices it opens abroad are useful for the activity itself, of course, of the Telegraph Agency. We, as a parliamentary group represented, are satisfied and therefore, once again, I say that we will support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the decision proposed in the Commission report. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion for a decision has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, with this the weekly work programme of Parliament has been exhausted. The meeting is adjourned tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
