ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the Draft Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period 20 June 2018. 1. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers: Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2017. Adopted at first vote on 22 May 2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. Draft decision for early termination of the term of office of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Importer: Health Committee on 14 June 2018. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers: Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018. Adopted at first vote on 30 May 2018. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Exporters: Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importers: Ivan Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. Adopted at first vote on 22 May 2018. 6. Draft decision approving an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman. Importer: Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 April 2018. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. Adopted at first vote on 3 May 2018. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers: Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. Adopted at first vote on 22 June 2017. 9. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017. Importer: Commission for Protection of Competition on 30 May 2018. 10. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2017. Importer: The Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 May 2018. 11. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2017. Importer: Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2018. 12. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the draft agenda so read. Vote 181 MPs: 134 against 3, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am already with a traditional procedure in the way of conduct, so that for seven months now, in my opinion, the Law on interest rates has not been on the agenda of the National Assembly for second reading, respectively, before that it has not entered the Committee on Budget and Finance under Menda Stoyanova. Last time I did this procedure, General Manushev was against it, we even went into communication with him, then he came and told me that it was a lot of hate speech in parliament and we should take it easy. Then I argued, as I have said now: You are lying to your constituents, it is about colleagues from GERB, because at first reading you unanimously supported this bill and since then you have not put it on the Commission's agenda, respectively to the National Assembly. This happens for the second time, because with the same bill in the past the National Assembly happened exactly the same... you have waited for just to end the National Assembly. With regard to interest rates, the only thing you do besides lying to your constituents is wait for you to fall out of power so that this bill doesn't come into force. Therefore, I would like to address once again all GERB MPs personally: you, gentlemen and ladies, are personally lying to your voters because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u3	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev, not to fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u4	And to you personally, Madam President. You, Madam President, as the leader of the National Assembly, I think that this is the seventh time I have put in place this procedure, you have no influence on the work of the National Assembly, so that a law that passed at first reading eight months ago cannot enter for second reading. You are lying to them, personally you, Madam President, along with each one of the GERB's groups. Therefore, gentlemen and ladies, when we talk about morality and integrity, think about what you are doing. Once again, you're lying to your constituents. If you like it, you can move on. I will continue with the procedures every time, including during parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kutev, I will try to influence Mrs. Stoyanova to insert the bill into her Commission and pass so she can enter the Chamber. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importers: Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending the Social Security Code. Importers: Svetlana Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer: Svetlana Naydenova. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Sincere Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importers: Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision on the questions, No 854 05 33, submitted by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov on 9 May 2018 to the Minister for Health on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Bulgarian Language Bill. Importer: Volen Siderov. The Committee on Education is the lead. It is distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad, the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. It's about to be deployed. Mrs. Karayancheva, I would like to withdraw my support as an importer of the Bulgarian Car Chamber Bill, No 854-01-43, submitted on 18 May 2018. Mr. Anton Donchev, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party. Messages: In the performance of t. 4 of Decision No 829 of 30 September 2016 of the Council of Ministers and art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch of a military ship with his state arms and crew soldiers to participate in a NATO maritime security operation in the Mediterranean Sea from 17 November to 15 December 2018 including the dates for transition to the eastern Mediterranean. At the time of the voyage, the ship will visit the Naval Base of Aksazaz, Turkey, and the city of Haifa, Israel, allowing the ship to participate in a joint exercise with Israel's naval forces on 11 December 2018. The notification was made on 14 June 2018 with entry No 803-09-36 and was made available to the Defence Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, a little quiet please! The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 19 June 2018 to 30 October 2018 a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility of the school polygon. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2018 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, to another State or organisation, armed forces [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, I asked you to be quiet! In the joint preparation will take part a formation of the US Land Forces in Europe in a group of soldiers with the necessary equipment, state weapons and combat, auxiliary and repair equipment. The notification was received on 19 June 2018 with entry No 803-09-37 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Communication on questions: Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, due to his absence, is prevented from participating in the parliamentary control meeting on 22 June 2018. In fulfilling the requirement of art. 105, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be held in the presence of the Minister concerned, the absence of Minister Ananiev imposes the setting of a new deadline for the discussions on the question addressed to him No 854-05-33 of 9 May 2018 by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Debates on that question shall be redirected to the next parliamentary control meeting. The National Statistical Institute has received information about inflation and consumer price indices for May 2018. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're moving to point one for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE WATERS. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm just going to ask you to read § 16, because we voted it and it hasn't been reported. We will vote again § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u7	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 16, which shall become § 18. Vote 160 MPs: 153, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote readings in the previous sitting § 25, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become § 28. Vote 166 MPs: 162, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u8	Proposal of Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29 with the following wording: ........................ 29...................................................... In § 133 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word the localities shall be added from a separate section of the locality. 2. A new para is being created. 2: For the areas of mineral water fields under point (a) (2) 31, 99, 100, 101 and 102 of Annex 2 to art. 14, p. 2: 1. the borders shall be along the administrative boundaries of the municipality concerned; 2. determine the operating resources of the mineral waters in the section of the underground water body and the technical possible flow rate of the watercraft, such as: (a) the amount of resources in the divisions shall not exceed the resources of the mineral water field; (b) the resources and the technically possible flow rate of the water-based facilities shall be calculated at a set decrease equal to zero times the limits of the area concerned; 3. motivates and outlines a buffer zone along the administrative boundary of the municipality, which does not allow the construction of new water-based facilities that would violate the requirement under point 3. 2. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the word 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The production of mineral waters under para. 1 shall be made following a written application by the mayor following a decision of the municipal council of the municipality concerned, submitted by 31 January of the year following the publication of the list under para. 3. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 6. A new para is being created. 6: In the case of the provision of mineral water fields or separate areas of mineral water locality from Annex 2 to art. 14, p. 2, designated as bodies of water in the Plans for river basin management (POSD), in the decision under para. 5 include specific requirements including: 1. equality between the available resources of the underground water body and the operating resources of the mineral water field; 2. the collection, maintenance and provision of the relevant pool directorate of the information required for the purposes of the RMP; 3. implementation of the planned monitoring at the designated points of quantitative and chemical status of the underground water body; 4. implementation of the water body measures provided for in the RMP; 5. determining the part of the natural and available resources of the underground water body to be provided to the municipality concerned; 6. determination of acceptable water level declines in such a way as not to create a risk of lowering water levels: (a) in sections located in neighbouring municipalities; (b) and change of the location of the boundary between the mineral water field and adjacent water bodies with a temperature of less than or equal to 20 °C; 7. restrictions on the construction of new water-based facilities that may hinder the fulfilment of the conditions under point 7. 6 along the border with neighbouring municipalities and adjacent underground bodies. 7. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 7 and 8. 8. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and in it in t. 2: (a) in point (b) at the end of the year, a letter shall be added to the letter (s) and shall be added to the letter (s) at the (b) New letters shall be (d) amends, continues, re-issues, terminates or withdraws authorisations granted before the mineral water field is granted for management and use by the municipality; (e) Control: (aa) the implementation of the parameters and conditions in the permits issued for water collection by the mineral water field or area; (bb) maintenance and compliance with the prohibitions in the zones and areas for conservation of the mineral water field or area; (c) the following points shall be inserted: (e) collects the fees for mineral water water collection; (g) spends the fees collected for the water taking from mineral waters from the fields or sections of para. 1 for the purposes of para. 15, p. 2; (d) the previous letter..................................................................... is replaced by..................................................................................................................................................................................... (e) the previous letter................................................... and is amended as follows: by 31 March of each year it shall submit to: (aa) the Minister for the Environment and Waters, a report on the use of mineral waters including: a balance of resources of each locality/division; a balance on water-based facilities indicating the established technically possible flow rate of each facility, the flow provided for use by each facility and the free flow from each facility, a list of water-users with data on the quantities of mineral water authorised and actually used during the previous year and the paid water collection fees; (bb) the director of the respective pool directorate (s) a list of water users with data on the quantities of mineral water and paid water fees and information on the measures implemented in the municipality (s) where the mineral water deposit is defined as a water body in the respective river basin management plan. 9. So far, the Al. 8 is repealed; 10. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: For mineral water deposits provided for the management and use of municipalities, water collection fees shall be: 1. determine by a tariff adopted by the municipal council, such as: (a) the principle of reimbursement of costs shall apply when determining the amount of fees; (b) for mineral water deposits in which divisions are separated, the fees for the respective water collection purposes shall be the same in each section. In the event that municipalities do not agree on the amount of fees the tariff under art. 194, para. 6; (c) for mineral water deposits identified as water bodies in river basin management plans: (aa) the objectives of water absorption shall be determined in accordance with the water services defined in the economic analysis of the water use under art. 192, para. 2, p. 1; (bb) the amount of fees shall comply with the determined target level of reimbursement of the costs of the service concerned in river basin management plans. 2. transfer to an account of the respective municipality, published on the website of the municipality. 11. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 and amended as follows: The mayor of the municipality amends the official permits issued before providing the mineral water field for management and use by the municipality in the part defining the rules and obligations for payment of the water collection fees. 12. A new para is being created. 12: The mayor of the municipality shall determine the rules and obligations for payment of the fees for water collection in the permits issued and in the amended permits under para. 11 for the period of the provision of the mineral water field for management and use by the municipality, determined by the decision under para. 5. 13. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 13 and finally added to it the fields and sections included in the list under para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): 14. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 14 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 15. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 15 and amended as follows: The funds collected from the water collection charges under para. 10: 1. enter the revenue of municipal budgets; 2. walk for: (a) conservation and efficient use of mineral water; (b) implementation of the measures planned in the RMP to achieve and maintain a good quantitative and chemical status of the water body in the territory of the municipality where the mineral water field is defined as a water body in the respective river basin management plan. 16. So far, the Al. 14 becomes para. 16 and amended as follows: The right to management and use of mineral waters under para. 1 shall be repaid at: 3. its non-exercise for a period of 5 years; 4. expiration of the term under para. 1 (Species) 17. The creation of para. 17: In the event of repayment of the right of management and use of the mineral waters under para. 1 The director of the pool director of service amends the permits for mineral water taking from the respective locality, the part defining the rules and obligations for payment of the water collection fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u9	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 29 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Veselinov has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure I would like to ask you to put to the vote an extension of the deadline for submission of proposals between the first and second reading of the Law on Device on the territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Iskren Veselinov for an extension of the bill by one week. They voted 153 MPs: 131, none, abstention 22. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u12	The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a division named "Transitional and Final Provisions." They voted 143 MPs: 141, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u14	Proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. (1) The provision of art. 118g, para. 1, t. 4 shall not apply to hydroelectric power plants which were put into operation on 9 August 2010. (2) The exception under para. 1 shall also apply to: 1. water capture for hydropower plants for the realization of which, by 9 August 2010, including the necessary solutions and permits have been issued under the applicable environmental legislation and the latter have not been terminated or revoked; 2. water capture for hydropower plants which are built and put into operation before the end of the action or withdrawal of any of the solutions and/or permits necessary for their implementation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u15	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the creation of § 30 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 57 against 2, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 31 and which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 51, against 3, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u17	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 32. They voted 122 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u19	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 33, and the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 34, both paragraphs shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 3. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 35, and shall propose the following wording: .............................................................................. Within 3 months of the entry into force of this law, the mayors of municipalities shall submit to the Ministry of Economy a reasoned proposal to change the ownership of the dams in the event of a decision by the respective municipal council for transfer of ownership to the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u21	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission on the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 35. They voted 136 MPs: 121, none, abstention 15. The proposal is adopted by which the Law of the Second Voting is adopted. Thank you for presenting the bill, dear Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u22	Colleagues, let's move on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION FOR THE PRE-COMMITMENT OF THE MANDA OF THE MANDA OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH CARA. The report will present Dr. Daritkova. In view of today's point this morning, I tried to contact Professor Plotchev to invite him to the National Assembly meeting, but he did not answer me and voice mail was included. Please, Dr. Daritkova, read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on early termination of the mandate of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund At its extraordinary meeting held on 14 June 2018, the Health Committee examined and discussed a letter received from the Commission by letter dated 14 June 2018. No 839-00-13 on 12 June 2018 by the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) in implementation of Decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF No RD-NS-04-36 of 8 June 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. Dr. Daniela Daritkova briefed the MPs on the content of the above letter and the documents attached to it. She clarified that in her letter Prof. Dr. Kamen Plotchev explicitly stated that the last three months he was absent because of illness and was unable to perform his duties and also informed that in the opinion of his team, he would not be able to work for at least another month, which is demonstrated by the presented hospital list. In the light of the foregoing, Professor Plotchev believes that these facts require a decision as to whether he is able to continue to perform the position of Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, according to him there is the hypothesis of art. 19th para. 4 t. 4 of the Health Insurance Act. In conclusion, Professor Plotchev states that he believes that the Law should be respected. According to the provision of art. 19th para. 4 t. 4 of the Health Insurance Act terminates early the term of office of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund if it is objectively unable to perform its duties as manager for a period longer than three months. During the discussion, it was clarified that the objective inability to terminate the management contract meant that a new factual situation had arisen which was either related to the working conditions or to the personal characteristics of the person in which the actual implementation of the management contract had become impossible. Thus, an objective impossibility exists only where the reasons which caused it arise from sources and factors which are not subject to the will of the parties to the management contract and are therefore insurmountable to them. Lasting caselaw takes the view that an objective impossibility is the inability to carry out the work entrusted because of a disease which has led either to permanent incapacity or to a period longer than that laid down in a special law, in which case that period is three months. As a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dr. Ivan Kokalov informed the MPs that there is a very responsible decision to be taken in relation to the NHIF budget, as well as other important activities related to the ongoing work of the Casa, which requires the existence of an active manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed an opinion that the question referred for consideration could be dealt with in two aspects In essence, it concerns the extent to which the health condition of Professor Plotchev does not actually allow him to carry out his duties, and the formal one is regarding compliance with the provisions of the Health Insurance Act. It was stated that it was not clear how another early termination of the mandate of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund would lead to improvement of the activities and functioning of the health insurance fund. In conclusion, another part of the MPs pointed out that Professor Plotchev's health problem was unduly politicized, without taking into account the fact that the conditions of art are in place. 19th para. 4 t. 4 of the Health Insurance Act and that the absence of an acting manager of the National Health Insurance Fund seriously violates the normal activity of the National Health Insurance Fund and regional health insurance funds, which has a negative impact on all health professionals and patients. On the basis of the documents presented, the discussion held and the vote taken on the following results: the National Assembly proposes to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION on early termination of the mandate of the National Governor Health insurance fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 4 t. 4 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He suspended the term of office of Kamen Sotirov Plochev as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u24	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Associate Professor Ivanov. First speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u25	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making this statement regarding Professor Kamen Plotchev's resignation, as this is an extremely important act at the moment, which concerns not only him but also the health system. I start this speech with words for Professor Kamen Plotchev because I have worked with him for 17 years and we have known each other for over 20 years. He was an outstanding specialist who at the Military Medical Academy created the discipline of Imunology and later laid the foundation of a modern infectious hospital. This is an extremely responsible professional, an outstanding doctor who knows to be responsible. Because today we're looking at his resignation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u26	It's an early release project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u27	... The project for his early release. lapsus, I would like to protect all colleagues from political gaps, from arguments for the protection of Professor Kamen Plotchev. As an outstanding specialist, as I said, and a man who is responsible, he very well realizes that his illness, which, apropo had before then, and I am sure that here will be made many different speculations on the subject, because a person, when he has a chronic illness, can never be sure when he will sharpen himself and when he will deteriorate. As a responsible person using his legitimate hospital for three months, he makes his volition in relation to the Health Insurance Act under art. 19th para. 4 t. 4 where it is explicitly stated that the Supervisory Board must decide on its release if it is not feasible to carry out its tasks within more than three months. As a conscientious, honorable and responsible physician, he makes this his volition. His three months passed on May 28th. Here I expect that various speculations will be made and perhaps someone from here will speak as an expert, as a kind of LKK committee, to say what would happen, what would not happen, and I am also in a hurry to protect my colleagues from these temptations. The second important problem that I will address is that as a person who knows how important the National Health Insurance Fund is, as a person who knows that he is in charge, and you know that this is the only financial institution that actually finances healthcare in Bulgaria, it is left on autopilot for three months. Very important things have happened. The framework contract was signed, which happened without the presence of Professor Kamen Plotchev. A lot more has happened, but trust me, the system, driving on autopilot for three months, can't continue to function like this. The problems that have accumulated in these three months are huge. No responsible decisions can be made. In addition, I can say that in the district health offices there is a need for competitions in order to be able to perform the functions. You know that the head of regional health care banks when allocating funds must reassign them to the relevant health care facilities. All this hinders the functions and work of the National Health Insurance Fund. I will not continue with my argument that today we want to give light to the election of a new head of the National Health Insurance Fund and that we can also start implementing the reforms that are to come in healthcare. I am sure that now colleagues will come out who will say: yes, here you sample a mistake, so many people have changed. Yeah, there's that moment. We have never run away from the responsibility of revealing our mistakes and weaknesses. In this case, I will conclude with Professor Kamen Plotchev's statement with the words: I personally believe that the Law must be respected and I ask to be released. I graduated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u28	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Replies to Professor Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u29	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will make a statement on the case that we are looking at now, but before that I would like to say that I am provoked by what we have heard so far by the person who spoke, who mentioned twice Professor Plotchev's resignation. In his letter, Professor Plotchev has been inconclusive...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u30	Fix yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u31	Resignation, I said. ...inconstantly, the manager of the NHIF, Professor Plotchev. Since associate Professor Ivanov never mentioned the title of manager, but five times he said: "Professor Plotchev," I walk on it. But you didn't comment on him. Please be so kind as to lead the meeting as follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u32	I didn't make a remark to anyone, not even you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u33	Professor Plotchev did not write in his letter the word "repair." It's explicitly written: I'm not resigning. Colleagues, please be so kind, Madam President, we are deciding an important issue for the fiscal and health security of the nation. The proposal that Dr. Daritkova read is for the release of the Governor of NHIF, not for resignation. I ask that we be so kind as to observe what we say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u34	It was a lapsus.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u35	Dear colleagues, the data from the health status of each Bulgarian patient are personal data, they also run under the Personal Data Protection Act. Dr. Daritkova quoted several speeches from the Commission meeting, but did not say that the sitting behind her Dr. Ivanov did not mention anything else. He has told the Commission that he has known Professor Plotchev for many years, that he knows very well about his illness, that it is severe, that it is interfering with him and so on. I'd like to ask: how do you know, Dr. Ivanov, about the disease? You don't know Professor Plotchev well enough. You know him from visions, you hardly knew his father's name until a while ago, until they read it, you didn't treat him, he didn't have a pulmonary or gynecological problem, and you allow yourself to interfere with the personal data of a Bulgarian citizen. In addition, he has submitted a hospital list from the LKK, but has not submitted a decision to TELK on permanent disability. Please do not warn others not to go political after you politicize the question and I will tell you why. So much for health. The chronology of events, honourable Members, shows that with multiple letters, which are 15 in number, the NHIF manager, as early as 2017, warned the Minister of Health of what is next in the accumulation of NHIF's obligations to foreign social institutions. Only on February 9 he wrote a letter to parliament, as no one paid attention to him. But what happens next? An exact political crusade begins against the NHIF governor with the heavy artillery. The chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB is on television, the Minister of Health comes out and says on seven media how much he lies to Professor Plotchev and that there are no such debts. I would even quote him, he said: "When I asked him for his resignation, he started squirming. I am sure that Mr. Ananiev is watching this broadcast at the meeting on the relevant television and I will ask him: how exactly was the professor squirming, Mr. Minister? As your replacement, Women Nacheva, when they threw eggs at her in Vratsa, and Bulgarian doctors, was that how she squirmed? What does that have to do with the question he asked me? The Minister of Health said six times that such debts of NHIF do not exist. And when we chose the manager here, he said the Cashier had no obligations. Where are these duties, honourable Members? A little later there was a joint committee meeting. There was once again confirmed, and not by anyone, but by the Chairman of the Governing Council that there are no such debts. Dr Daritkova, President of the Commission, said that she did not know the case of refusals to treat Bulgarian citizens abroad and brought claims. It's a few hundred, Dr. Daritkova! I'm surprised you didn't request them by name from the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u36	There was a response from the minister of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u37	I have no intention of having a dialogue with you, I speak in front of the Chamber, so be kind to respect me, as I respect you. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] I quote Dr. Daritkova at the meeting, here is what she said: "Whatever you do, you will not come to power. Who didn't go to the media to lead this crusade? Finally, what has proved to be, ladies and gentlemen! It turns out that everything Professor Plotchev said is true up to a penny that the NHIF has accumulated these duties, especially at the time when the chairman of the Supervisory Board was the former Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev, assisted by his replacement now, who is now Chairman of the Supervisory Board. As early as 2015, I'm showing you [[shows documents]] The courts are clogged by cases of denied treatment abroad. I also want to tell Dr Daritkova something else that after the meeting we talked about, people died from refusing treatment. And five-year-old Nikolai died, and you must have the courage to stand up here and say you were wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u38	Who is this Nikolai? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u39	Here's a protocol for the NHIF meeting with the German Health Insurance Fund. [[shows documents]] , representatives of the Germans are four cases where exactly and clearly Mr. Ananiev assumes the obligation that they will pay Germany priority at the expense of the other countries. One month later on October 10th, he assumed the same obligation to the representatives of the Republic of Austria. Of course, no one pays. I will tell you this: in 2009 payments to foreign banks are suspended, for example, the Austrians. In 2010, the outstanding value of the claims increased sharply. It continued until 2014, then the paid value rose by 300% and again decreased by 200% in 2015, now things are unmanageable. Something else. The Minister of Finance of the Republic, to whom Mr. Ananiev was a longtime deputy, is now a runner-up, in mid-February he writes letters to the NHIF and to the Parliament, and to the Medical Unions, the Doctoral and Dental Union, with which he says: "Don't sign the National Framework Treaty, because we don't know what NHIF's obligations are to that date. I'm showing you a summary reference. [[shows document]] on the overdue liabilities of the central and local government and social security funds as at 31 December 2017, which was at the Office of the Minister of Finance, where it writes: 446 thousand. We're talking about overdue. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the 446 thousand. What insolence, fellow Members? To have a reference, to manage the fiscal policy of Bulgaria, to know how many obligations are and by official letter to say that there are no such obligations, and to ask the two unions not to conclude the National Framework Treaty. Imagine if you'd listened to this minister, what would have happened? Who corrected his mistakes and insolence? Your Prime Minister. He obliged them to be concluded. Does the Cashier continue to have these duties? It's going on. Is he still piling them up? Perhaps Dr. Daritkova will say how much leva were paid on innovative medicines, where with scandal the decision was made twice.. one time you thought that there should not be. I'll tell you zero leva. And now you stand up here and convince us that the reason for this condition is almost the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. Something that I think is impertinent. I want to ask you this: of course, at the moment, the foreign social security institutions have already informed you, here is a letter. [[shows the letter]] The German health insurance fund, one of the four, has hired four Bulgarian law firms to collect the claims, debts from the NHIF and possibly with the relevant criminal risks and interest, which leads to other issues that have not been found in the public domain. I ask you, has this debt not been accumulated fully consciously and purposefully through a policy in order to arrive at exactly the kind of procedure in which intermediary firms will be able to absorb in the form of huge debt claims part of the debt?! How many percent of the commissions will remain for the intermediary and how many will go to those who apparently purposefully have fully consistently accumulated this debt? And as we can see, it's always the same person, the Deputy Minister of Finance. I can give you the graph of debt accumulation. The biggest debts have been accumulated over the years when Mr. Ananiev was Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund. And you are now looking for a fuse, you are talking about a health condition, which in this case is irrelevant, and in fact it is about a fiscal and health policy which has a severe, harmful result for Bulgarian national security. Even that is enough for you as a motive for the vote of no confidence in the part of fiscal and health security. What you're doing is unworthy. And I will address here some people in the hall who well know Professor Plotchev, unlike associate Professor Ivanov. Brother eyebrows, are you here? You're gone! Let me see you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u40	There he is!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u41	...your hand will reach for the green button or some colleagues from the Volya will see how you will vote for this release.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u42	Mr. Velkov, please. Everyone has the right to vote by choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u43	Everyone has the right, ma'am, but General Popov, to be alive and well, here some time ago he rightly said: "He who does not vote for the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian army is not a worthy man.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u44	Please, on the subject! Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u45	Well, I'm talking about it. You're putting me in this hypothesis. [[Laughter at GERB.]] So, colleagues, uh...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u46	I'm just paying attention to you, and I'm not putting you anywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u47	... You politicize things. But keep in mind: disaster is always a collection, a set of tragic events. Destiny gives you a sign of these events several times and you don't read them. You can't read them! A week ago, it was Vidovden. Open the Internet and see what happened on this date, which we are talking about a lot 2 February this year. I don't want to suggest anything. What you do is politics. What we are doing is effectively countering this harmful policy. Right now, under a magnifying glass, we're going to look at your new NHIF manager proposal and ask him questions here. The first question will be: Does he know how much the debts are? Where's the money for the return? Minister Ananiev has undertaken to clear our debt to the German Health Insurance Fund until this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u48	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u49	How could it not be true, you want me to read you the protocol? You're obviously not familiar enough. Do you want me to read it? If you allow at the expense of time, I will not do it, as there are other colleagues who I suppose will continue what I say. The fact that the manager will be released today won't solve your problem. Your question is very difficult because you suggested this man. Then did Professor Ivanov know that he was chronically ill, knowing a lot. I'm saying associate professor, not doctor, even though he's not an associate professor of medicine. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u50	Please, Mr. Velkov. Any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? I can't see. Personal explanation Dr. Daritkova, come in. And Mr. Ivanov too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u51	Madam President, because I have been repeatedly respected by the speaker and mentioned in his eclectic sum and statement of facts and their speculative interpretation of the conspiracy theory that he presented here, I have nothing to add. [[Applause from GERB.]] I just want to say that here we are discussing the personal volition in Professor Plotchev's letter with his desire to comply with the law. From now on, any other speculation is at his expense, and anyone who speaks must be responsible for it. I would like to point out that I have not been irresponsible in any case to any of the facts which have been presented during the discussion of the obligations and during that it was quoted by Professor Plotchev himself that 330 Bulgarian citizens are denied treatment in Member States of the European Union. I have addressed a parliamentary question to the Minister of Health........................................... the Minister of Health........................................ is that really the case? I have a detailed answer that is on the website of the National Assembly, you can meet it. I will quote only separate texts of this reply, because the time will not be enough to read you the whole, but in conclusion the information is a quote from the letter: "Written complaints for refusal to provide needed medical assistance to Bulgarian health insured persons with a stay or residence in the European Union are not officially registered in the National Health Insurance Fund. I would recall that Professor Plotchev was the one who submitted the budget of the Cashier for 2017, that is, he did not know about these obligations at the end of last year and suddenly discovered them when this budget was already a fact. So it should not be an accounting problem and a problem in the case's operational management to be politicised to such an extent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u52	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. [[Applause from GERB.]] Docent Ivanov will have no personal explanation. We're moving on with our speeches. Colleagues, let's alternate the parliamentary groups. Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We are discussing not just the personal volition of another Governor of the Health Insurance Fund. We are discussing once again the issue of the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the people we choose and release in a few months. There's a statement that says: "It's better when you don't know what to say, to tell the truth because it's easier. " - Let's try to tell the truth. Here it was said that there was a new factual environment. To think about what really led to Professor Plotchev's resignation? Actions, statements, findings that political correctness, discipline and hypocrisy could not forgive. These findings have been made repeatedly by the opposition, but they have not been heard. It's bad when a person you're proposing says them, either you accept them or you want his resignation for whatever reasons. Professor Plotchev said this. First, that the system during this or at the latest next year will collapse in full, in spite of the 407 million more. He said he wanted an update on the health fund budget in February with a letter to all the political forces, although there are 407 million more, as you reminded him. Stubbornly, he claimed that the funds owed to foreign hospitals were not 7 million, but 70 million, something that many people knew, it turned out that there were two people in the state who did not know, and these were the Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister, one former Head of Supervision of the Casata, the other current Director of Supervision of the Casa. Due to the lack of any political experience and administrative in management techniques, most likely Professor Plochev will be released. The case, however, is yet another fragment in the deepening deadlock in the healthcare system, and this is something that no one will deny the opposition and rulers. Professor Plotchev is the 17th Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Most of them, with one exception, have so far volunteered their resignations. Today we are discussing a semi-resign because he categorically in that letter that you have decided to respect says that he is not resigning. I wonder why the last time he wrote us a letter in February, you asked for his head. Since, colleagues from GERB, you have changed the order for the selection of managers of the Health Insurance Fund, and this is what we tell you every time, we have come so far as not to have a single manager of the Health Insurance Fund for a full term, and this also applies to the health care ministers. The absolute paradox is that the more consensus we choose the governors of the National Health Insurance Fund, the faster they go away, and this is a symptom of our activity for what we achieve here as solutions. Save the humiliation of both the elected and the National Assembly itself, because it is not he who should resign, and the chaos of health care will not be resolved with his resignation and release. The conversation today, and before that, must be not just about the selection and release procedure, but about stability, how the system works, how it works, how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works, and how it works. of the insured citizens to be managed by the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. There is no way you can understand that the small matter, in your opinion, is what is volition and what is the essence of the problem, you are trying not only to humiliate the people we choose and release, but this puts at risk the existence and predictability in the system. Moreover, with each release of another governor, we are simply creating a new precedent. Now you're referring to art. 19th para. 4 t. Four, but it's not the procedure that's really important. After all, the legislator, however bad the legislation, has made the reasons and the members for the exemption simply to guarantee a full mandate and not to make it easier to release another person we do not like. Professor Plotchev will most likely be released. What, though, will remain after the saga, Professor Plotchev? There will remain a health insurance model, which is a mixture of leftovers, of solidarity without justice, on the one hand, and insurance. For a long time the uninsured are not the biggest problem of the system. [[Applause from GERB.]] The question is, what do those who are provided get, and how do we motivate them to provide? There are wonderful doctors and bad, inadequate management decisions in the system. Good medicine and bad health. More money and more money. In this crisis of values and vivid deontological problems, which we have witnessed with the latest scandals of the last days, the most constant thing has proved to be the unpredictable, the inconsistent of priorities, of teams and of legislation. And the responsibility of GERB is clear, not just another manager of the Health Insurance Fund. We have time, which is irretrievably wasted because many mistakes have been made. There are no innocents, but the greatest responsibility lies with those who have ruled nine years in the last ten. Insecurities and mistakes made by ignorance and incompetence, but also intentional. And we've been talking about the mistakes from here. The Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament will refrain from voting on a decision because we continue to believe that Plochev is not the person responsible for the state of the system and the Health Insurance Fund, and other people have to go. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u54	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for an extension of time before I begin my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u56	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u57	For the second time, we will have to share that this discussion is very unpleasant and I have the painting of déjà vu in front of me. Last year at the time of the discussion of Dr. Komitov's resignation he was absent, there were raised those for his serious illness. Now in the same way we have volition or what to call it a game of procedural words, and again the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund is absent. The balance for a year and two months is as follows: two ministers of health, two managers of the Health Insurance Fund have been replaced. What is the effect of all this, honourable Members? And that is the point of our entire discussion in the Chamber, not the personal problems of Professor Plotchev. I wouldn't call his case his case and his case as my colleagues called it before me, because then we should call Professor Petrov's quick release, a well-established specialist, and twice I think of a minister of the service. We need to turn into a saga and Dr. Komitov's release, so I wouldn't use those strong words in this case. I would rather use the words of Associate Professor Ivanov, who raised the question that the system was left on autopilot. [[Heckling]] I don't agree with the fact that the system was left on autopilot. Rather, we should try to understand, and I will try to prove to you now where the pilot of the Bulgarian healthcare plane is taking you or repeat the title of that film: "Is there even a pilot on the plane?" I will quote to you a whole series of documents issued during these 8 months by both the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health. They caused a very serious negative response throughout the professional community and led to this tension that we are currently witnessing in healthcare. When we stood here until midnight and even long after midnight to accept the National Health Insurance Fund budget, the government said that we wanted peace of mind in the system. This calm did not come, on the contrary, came many problems and these problems came from the preservation of the status quo and up to now. What are the papers? First of all, the very loud decree on the financial management of hospitals, which blew up the Association of Regional Hospitals, the Association of Municipal Hospitals because of fragments in it, which were absolutely unacceptable by the professional community and could lead to personnel and financial collapse. Secondly, the decree issued for the conclusion of a contractual relationship between the National Health Insurance Fund and the medical institutions, which, in the words of the lawyers, was mapped by the old regulation, and on top of that, there was a fragment that fell into the court. Thirdly, the publication of the so-called National Health Card, expected by everyone with great eagerness to show as a mirror the state of the health system, which also caused a huge negative response in all professional organizations, starting from associations, the Doctor's Union, which came out with provisional declarations and even the Doctor's Union with a declaration after its 68th regular accounting and election council. There's a whole series of documents I don't want to go into detail. The claims of the National Health Insurance Fund for strict control over the spending of oncommedicines also sparked letters from the Cancer Association, the Association for Hematology. The radiation problems were then explained by the presence of indicative values. In fact, the entire series of documents over the last 10 months shows that there is no pilot on the plane... If we speak the truth, colleagues, the National Health Insurance Fund is not a public body at all, it is directly subordinate to the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of Finance. Her Chairman of the Management Board is Deputy Minister of Health, and even more so here, Dr. Jeffer hinted, and I will really put this issue very seriously in front of the honourable Chamber. What do we really choose in Parliament? Governor of the NHIF, who has no vote in the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, and all the questions we address to the problems of the National Health Insurance Fund, which manages 80% of the health resources, are addressed to the Minister of Health, who is not directly responsible for the policy of the Supervisory Board of the Casa?! It is high time that the measure, which was introduced a few years ago, was carefully considered by lawyers and changed, as the Casa Governor cannot influence at all. It is a fuse which, as a reverse, is rejected every eight or nine months to release the management of the government from some tension which it believes will be settled, but it will not be settled. Next, extremely serious drug policy problems. I advise you: one who is really interested in health care should carefully review what is happening in the drug policy system. More than 60 drugs have a chronic deficiency in the delivery system when required by the Bulgarian patients - anti-inflammatory, anti-rheumatic, not to list all groups. During the whole year discussed and uninitiated hospital packaging, refusal of automatic reconstitution or semi-automatic reconstitution of medicinal products in medical establishments accompanied by a proposal for strict control which cannot be carried out on the cost of oncommediations, and constantly elevating the mantra for the huge cost of oncommediations in the country. All of this shows, Associate Professor Ivanov, not that there is no pilot on the plane, but that the plane is heading towards the ground, which is an extremely serious problem and it is high time instead of dealing with the procedural questions. 19 should be released Professor Plochev, to start solving the problems of Bulgarian healthcare. I will conclude by saying that with all these decisions, the debt of medical institutions remains the same until now; the measures taken are absolutely palliative and do not change the status of these medical institutions. I do not want to ask the honourable colleague from Vratsa to get up and tell you what the current state of the Vratsa Hospital is, what patients there are feeding on, how the elevator does not work for patients with strokes and are driven through the common elevator, how there is no duty schedule. All this can't let us feel here in white almost, putting all these problems behind us and wondering what procedure to release another governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u58	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u59	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Mihailov! You said: we need to start solving the problems of Bulgarian healthcare. Am I to understand that in the last term, although not so soon, although in politics it is rather soon, you, as a ruling party, have not solved health problems?! [[Heckling]] Right, because we have to start there. You come and go. I'm not just saying you, you all come and go, and every time you're in opposition, you say, "We have to solve our problems." And when you come to power, you don't solve them. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] When you were in charge, was the elevator at the hospital in Vratsa working? The sick in Vratsa, which elevator did they take up and down? So a little shame, go back a little bit, remember the time when Bulgarian citizens died with a 3 dollar pension. [[Heckling]] Indeed, if you are willing to change something, give real suggestions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's no irreplaceable person. Moreover, if Mr. Plotchev has been absent in the past few months, I do not see any change in the health system for good or for bad. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, then what difference does it make? Let's find another guy! To Mrs. Jaffer: Let's tell them who the people for dismissal are, let's say what the problems are, and how to solve them, and let's move forward, not deal with empty talking. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Professor Mihaylov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, with all due respect to you, Mr. Mareshki, at least I expected you as Raymonda Diane to lay down on the railway line, as in the famous story of the French author, and to protect the current status quo and the current health situation. [[Laughter and excitement.]] This is how we can return before 1989, and before 1944, and seek guilt in the depths of our history. We are talking about a period of 10 years, sorry, in which the government has been dominated by a political power for nine years. This is a sufficient argument and any explanation of how the elevator was moving four years ago and what happened 24 years ago. Please are not serious about the responsibility of this room. I therefore call on you, indeed, as people who claim that you have an attitude towards the future of Bulgaria, to assist this policy of neglect, to disregard the problems in health care to finally end. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u62	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Next statement? Procedure. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. It is notably known, Madam President, that Mr. Mareshki is dealing with drugs and apparently has a relationship with the Health Insurance Fund. I therefore ask that, when he speaks on this subject, before speaking, he be asked by you to declare a conflict of interest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u64	Perhaps all doctors, when speaking, should declare conflict of interest, Mr. Popov?! Next statement? Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Listening to this discussion, I ask myself: what is the point of this discussion? And my short answer is that this discussion doesn't make any sense. I say this because this discussion is about to solve the problem with the elevator of the Vratsa hospital, ignoring the movement of the elevator of Bulgarian healthcare, which, unfortunately, is down. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is a strange fact to me that when Professor Plotchev, at the beginning of this year, referred to the National Assembly about the problems with the duties on foreign cases, then this letter became a political problem and as a basis for a request for resignation. Now that Professor Plotchev is again addressing the Committee on Health, this becomes a well-intentioned act and a basis for a request for resignation. This means to me that expert arguments are replaced by procedural arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is elected by the National Assembly, just as is elected by the National Assembly and the Prime Minister of the Republic. The difference is that the prime minister is elected for a period of four years, and the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund is elected for a period of five years. But let's look at the powers of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and the other powers of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. The governor, elected by the National Assembly, has limited powers, unlike the Supervisory Board, only that the Supervisory Board is elected on a proposal from the relevant structures that have the right to propose the nine people. The Supervisory Board manages the huge financial resource, and the Cashier is only an executive on the basis of a management contract. If we in the National Assembly do not change the powers of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, it does not matter what is the name of the one before Plotchev and this "after Plotchev," governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, because his hands will be tied. He will always be a hostage to the legislation that has been adopted here in this House since 2009, I stress this largely. That's why the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, whoever he is, is not the important person in the system. The important person in the system is the patient! And if we don't figure that out, we'll never get to the right decisions. I would also like to say something else, and this governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, was following the procedure, was proposed by a parliamentary group, but it is no secret to anyone that this was a proposal from the previous minister. Let us not forget that the National Health Insurance Fund by law and by definition is a public institution. Unfortunately, it has been turned into a state institution since 2009, almost as a directorate of the Ministry of Health, this financial directorate, this paying agency, and, by definition, the Casa has quite other powers. And therefore, please, do not be tempted by the current minister to offer a near-by manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, because this will lead to the same problems in the system. With respect to each of the elected governors of the National Health Insurance Fund, but also the next, and the latter, under this legislative framework, will be the victim of a systemic and not a procedural problem. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u66	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Colleagues, I am closing the debate. We are going to vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I've closed the debate already, colleagues. I've asked you several times to be more active. I ask the MPs to take their seats. As you take your seats, I will read the Decision one more time: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on early termination of the mandate of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 4 t. 4 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He suspended the term of office of Kamen Sotirov Plochev as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Please vote. They voted 211 MPs: 109, against 72, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Who will present us with the Second Reading Report? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u67	In addition to the provisions of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Ministry of Interior, No 854-01-32, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 3 May 2018, adopted on the first vote on 30 May 2018. The Law on the Ministry of the Interior was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: the Act amending the Ministry of Interior Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u68	Statements? I don't see any speeches. We are voting on the proposed change in the name that the Commission supports. [[Noise and lines. A group of MPs from DPS and Coalition for Bulgaria are right, some of them are leaving the Chamber.]] Colleagues, please take your seats so that the vote can normally take place. Vote 134 MPs: 107, Against 19, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u69	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 5 the words "one month' shall be replaced by "three months'. 2. "Alinea 6 is cancelled."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u70	Statements? I don't see any speeches... [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any speeches? Mr. Ivanov, I didn't see you, but if your colleagues from your parliamentary group sit in their seats, it will be easier for me to see you when you raise your hand. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues from the United Patriarchs, please sit down! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for the remark, but I think the group of BSP is not a bit noticeable.. 80 MPs are quite.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u72	When 45 are on their feet, however, it is difficult to notice, Mr. Ivanov. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u73	Same goes for the right side.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u74	I made a note of them, too. Please proceed to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u75	My fellow Members, I expected the importers to be more precise here between first and second readings because we had this discussion at first reading that the texts tabled were not perfect enough, not clean enough, but in the end I see that the text is offered to us in the same version as it was in its original form. We will be against it for sure, because this is largely in connection with the reasons for the no-confidence vote that we are bringing, precisely what is happening at the Ministry of Interior and the serious lack of staff. I do not believe that with the proposals made, this will solve the problem of non-completion. It is true that colleagues from GERB came to power with serious promises to fill in numbers, to increase the number of investigative police officers, but what are we really doing right now? Once again, we're opening a door for footage turnover. This, my fellow Members, is going to open up, for example, a huge gap to those places that are extremely unattractive inside the system. I asked, even then, when the debates were at first reading, whether this law was made for someone who needed to be transferred to another office. We could have found another way, not changed the law. I expected that the government, Mr. Tsvetanov, would not allow such a thing. After all, you are stimulating really an escape of employees within the system where they find it difficult to carry the service, but ultimately the Ministry of Interior is a strictly hierarchical structure and things have to happen. It is better to find incentives to recruit new employees, capable, to pass quality training, rather than those who have already completed the training, built up as staff, because almost all of the Internal Commission who have passed through this ministry, say it takes years for an employee to build in the system, to be able to gain the necessary experience in order to be fully used. What do we do now? Those who have already built up the experience that has taken place for certain reasons, if they do not want to work in this place, give them the opportunity to migrate into the service and to expose this nerve that it is. I do not see why and should support such a text. Colleagues, indeed, I urge you to prevail over reason and this text to be rejected. Those who are being imported here and today want to vote are harmful. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov. Look how quickly I noticed Mr. Yankov when you all sat down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am surprised to note that, in the event of a change of the Ministry of Interior Act, there is no representative of the Ministry's political leadership to argue its support for the texts so proposed. Why should the political leadership be present, provided that it is a performer of the will of Prime Minister Borisov, of the majority in the National Assembly, which is led by the chairman of the parliamentary group of the political party GERB Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and in fact he has no say in changing the rules according to which the employees of the Ministry of Interior work. Thus, the proposed amendment of a species is a minimum one-month change to the three-month shift, but it is actually a comprehensive strategy regarding mobility in the Ministry of Interior and the Security sector. This change aims to create an opportunity for this mobility to be used by civil servants working in the structure of the security sector. Honourable colleagues of the majority who will support this amendment, you do not understand that the big problem of the Ministry of Interior is the motivation of the employees. This motivation creates conditions in which the Ministry is not effective, the individual structural units not only do not communicate with each other, but you will also create additional tensions with this amendment because there are no rules, no rules, and this mobility option will be used only by the appropriate employees of the Ministry of Interior. You, as governors, have partied the Ministry of Interior and will also use this change for political purposes, not according to principles that will enable greater motivation. How, ladies and gentlemen, ready to press the green button, work for 800 BGN.? That's what he gets for a new employee at the Ministry. And with this amendment, and giving the opportunity to move an employee that you will decide, you are actually preparing an additional sector of security not to perform its functions under the Law, but to carry out your political tasks, which, by the way, include indirect provision for the purchase of votes during elections, because when the security sector and the Ministry of Interior cannot secure the enforcement of the law and cross the buying of votes...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u78	Does this have anything to do with a bill being discussed?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u79	It actually indirectly helps to buy votes, which makes you feel like you're in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me just remind you that this change that is currently being made and the current norm in the Ministry of Interior Act allows and gives the possibility of reassigning employees from the Ministry of Interior, going and expressing their desire to move into the structures of the State Agency. National Security. However, at the moment these employees had to pay for their education, which is at the Ministry of Interior Academy, or the training paid by the Ministry of Interior. However, let's say that all the structures that have competence on the topic of security are part of national security and I see no problem in releasing those employees who have the necessary capacity, have the necessary qualities and want to move from the Ministry of Interior to the structures of the State Agency of National Security. There better be an opportunity for the National Agency to use this kind of expertise than for an outsider to come along, and we know that at the moment, such expertise of people who can be trained is hardly available. What you are currently speculating here is perhaps not more than 10 people who would wish to move from the Ministry of Interior to the National Security Agency, but let me say that there is also the opposite opportunity of staff from the State Agency to move to the structures of the Ministry of Interior. I think last year's ratio is 12-14. I'm not going to be quite accurate, because this is from a memory of conversations I've had with the Ministry of the Interior's leadership. There is more political speech here, which you have made, colleagues, and not, essentially, on the draft and on the texts that have been voted on in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here I would just like to remind you that the texts proposed by a group of MPs also had representatives of the political leadership. Even when we watched a second reading last week, they gave a positive opinion and there was absolutely no problem and a debate almost did not take place in the Internal Commission. I understand that now that we are in plenary, of course, it gives us the opportunity to talk a lot and to say things that do not correspond at all with the legislative change we are making right now. Where did you go, colleagues, for elections? What does it have to do with the opportunity that we are giving at the moment to improve, because at present employees can move and reassign themselves to the respective posts? And here it will be with the consent of the supervisor who accepts it. Of course, there is also the opinion of the head, who gives this opportunity for the employee to have his development. Why should we stop a professional development of employees who are part of the security system and work in the different structures of the Ministry of Interior or the State Agency for National Security? I think the debate is more political than essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you must know them by name: 10 This was my statement that you created an opportunity by personal will of the management of the Ministry and of the management of the State Agency to move employees, and because there is no principle, you are actually supporting the partisanization of the sector of Security, the participation by GERB. And it was no accident that I referred to you as the majority leader in the National Assembly and Boyko Borisov, who single-handedly makes decisions in the executive power. The devil is in the details and this small change actually opens the big door of the additional grip of the GERB party in the units of the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u84	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov wants a line, and then I'll give Mr. Lazarov a line. Yes, there are from another parliamentary group, Mr. Velkov, so I'm sorry. [[(Replication by National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov:]] Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u85	The procedure is: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov is in the towers of parliament. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u86	Let's vote, fellow Members, let's let the Deputy Minister go. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's okay, since the Deputy Minister is here. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I don't understand why you don't really listen to what's said and don't watch what's happening. You've been Home Secretary, you know what this is about, you know how hard it is to build this footage. What is the aim of the Ministry of Interior to be stripped of personnel who have passed their professional path, who have received the necessary training in the work........................................................................................... Mr. Tsvetanov, we are talking about the problems in the sector. You know that DANS is generally an underfunded structure with a serious failure. What is the point and what will be the result of transferring employees from the Ministry of Interior to the DANS? We doubt, and rightly so I said, and colleague Iankov that they may already have specific names, because such an amendment is not accidentally introduced. I then asked my fellow Patriots, if it was one person, to raise money, to pay him, not to change the Law in this direction. But keep in mind, when the next DANS budget is adopted at the end of the year, increase their budget so that they can fill in their personnel shortages so that people can get in there, they can prepare them. What's going on? In practice, you, as a defender and at the competition beginning of the Ministry of Interior, are somewhat bypassing this thing. What's the point? Why are you opening? You will then regret this thing yourself, because the stripping of certain places by professionals in the system leads to such cases that have also happened in Botevgrad. The lack of professionalism to some extent, said your minister. There's nothing to wonder about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Lazarov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u89	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand from your speech that you did not want to politicize the problem, but you wanted to explain exactly and clearly what it was about, because this opportunity had it before. It's really about pay, extension, maybe that's why you missed. Here we hear people being transferred from one place to the other from one place to the other from the people who a few years ago a whole office of the Ministry of Interior took it to the DANS [[Applause from GERB]] With all the consequences that came out of it. We also know the opinion of the partner services. But here they started talking about elections, that if you saw this, that was the goal of buying votes. The same people, during their management in 2014, stopped buses and recorded the names of the people entering Sofia to protest. Should I remind you in Varna when the names of whole party structures were recorded? That's why I'm making this line for you. Yes, professionally, they don't want to understand professionally. They know very well what this is about and that this opportunity has it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u91	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, who have spoken your lines! Mr. Lazarov, I believe that what fellow Members are doing is currently warming up for the debate that we are going to lead for the vote of mistrust, which has absolutely no arguments about the members and paragraphs that we are discussing and want to make this legislative change. Of course, I reserve the right to be quite reasoned with political ones when this political debate is taking place, and now, at the moment, I will stick more to the texts that need to be adopted and to be able to continue our parliamentary activities and the other bills that are in our weekly programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u92	Thank you. Mr. Tsvetanov, do the clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u93	I am making a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, who is here in the couloirs so that once again we can stop the speculations offered by BSP colleagues that representatives from the Ministry of Interior and political leadership are absent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Please vote on Deputy Minister Tzipov's clearance. Vote 119 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, on the balcony of the plenary are our colleagues from the Friendship Group Armenia, Bulgaria, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, led by the group's chairman Gemma Bagdasaryan. Guests are on a two-day visit. Please welcome them. [[Everyone rises up and welcomes the guests with long applause.]] Thank you, colleagues. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 124 MPs: 95, against 23, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u95	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 2 and in it the words "the State Agency" are replaced by "State Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u96	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the change in the name of the division supported by the Commission and § 2 by the corresponding version. Vote 124 MPs: 95, against 23, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u97	Under § 3, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Kasabov, made in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u98	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 3. They voted 127 MPs: for 96, against 7, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, let's move on to the next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX, No 854-01-44. The bill was submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018. The report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 854-01-44, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018. At its meeting held on 12 June 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 854-01-44, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev from the Supreme Judicial Council, Ms. Daniela Marcheva, Mrs. Boryana Dimitrova and Mrs. Veronica Imova from the Supreme Judicial Council; Ms. Emmanuela Balevska and Mrs. Emilia Vasileva from the Sofia City Court; Mrs. Valeria Bratoeva from the Ministry of Justice; Mrs. Daniela Belchina from the Ministry of Justice; from the Ministry of Justice. Mr. Ivaylo Kostov is a lecturer in civil proceedings. The bill was presented by Mr. Zarkov, who pointed out that it proposed changes in the local defendant of consumer claims, the claims for unlawful damage when they were brought against the insurance, guarantee fund or the National Bureau of Bulgarian Car Insurance, as well as changes in the proceedings for opposition to indiscretion. With these changes are aimed at achieving an even load of courts in the country and achieving quality and speedy justice. A change in the claims of and against a consumer is offered mandatory conviction at the consumer's permanent address, which will ensure easy and cheap access to justice of the economically weaker entity and will help to effectively protect the rights of the consumer. With the obligation for the victim to file a claim against the insurance officer of the delicacy, not at the defendant's permanent address, but at the scene of the insurance event, the importer shall endeavour to ensure a more rapid and effective examination of the case in which the subject of proof is facts occurring at the scene of the accident. All procedural actions relating to the collection of evidence shall be closely linked to the place of occurrence of the insurance event. The changes will ensure faster collection of evidence and reduction of the financial resources of the countries, as well as the judicial budget. The bill shall also contain changes relating to the possibility that the court may formally object where the proceedings brought before it are not in line with the changes made to the local jurisdiction of the claims against state institutions and legal entities, claims relating to the location of the immovable property, claims of and against the consumer and claims against the insurance company of the delicacy. According to the bill, opinions were received from the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of Cassation. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov, Daniel Kirilov, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that the proposed texts reflect the requests of representatives of the judiciary and the Supreme Judicial Council and aim to ease the work of the Sofia courts. He added that the views of all interested parties and editorial remarks of the Supreme Court of Cassation should be taken when discussing the Bill. Kirilov noted that he supported the proposals made in principle, pointing out that they were the subject of the debate on the adoption of changes in the Civil Procedure Code in 2017. He clarified that it was then decided that these changes on the defendant should be included in a legislative procedure before the Ministry of Justice, currently dealing with them a working group which discusses and works on the proposed texts. Mr. Mitev expressed his principled support for the proposals made, adding that the texts relating to the local jurisdiction of consumer disputes and claims against insurance companies should be refined and a transitional provision should be laid down for welded proceedings. He expressed reservations about the possibility for the court to formally object to the local defendant's claims against state institutions and legal entities, claims on the location of the real estate, claims of and against the consumer and claims against the insurance company of the delicacy. Mr. Magdalenchev thanked the Committee on Legal Issues on the Emergency Order in which she examined the proposals and pointed out that the even distribution of the burden of the courts was set by the updated strategy adopted in 2015 for continuing the reform of the judiciary and the road map to it. He added that their support will facilitate the work of the Sofia courts. Ms. Marcheva, Mrs. Dimitrova and Mrs. Imova joined Mr. Magdalenchev's statement and explained that the judges in the Sofia City Court were twice and a half busier than the judges in the other district courts. They pointed out that these legislative changes are necessary and timely, adding that they will improve the workload of the Sofia City Court and the Sofia Court of Appeal and will protect the public interest from quick, effective and quality justice. Mrs Belchina noted that she fully supports the opinion expressed by the Ministry of Justice, specifying that currently a working group at the Ministry of Justice is discussing changes in the Civil Procedure Code and changes tabled by the Law are discussed in the Working Group and are discussionative. She clarified that the working group at the Ministry of Justice agreed on the version of paragraph 2 concerning art. 115 of the GPC. Mrs. Gigova added that the working group of the Ministry of Justice has been working for two months and added that the current version of the Code provides that claims against an insurance company will be made at the applicant's permanent address or the occurrence of the insurance event. She pointed out that she supports the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the need to refine the texts. Mrs. Balevska and Mrs. Vasileva noted that they support the opinion of the VCC for the withdrawal of paragraph 3, and Ms. Vasileva clarified that the majority of the supreme judges support the proposals made in principle. They also pointed out the need for a transitional provision to settle the legal proceedings pending. Ms. Bratoeva expressed the need to adopt the proposals made in urgent order, pointing out that they will protect the economically weaker entity in the relationship and will achieve a more even distribution of cases. Mr. Kostov expressed reservations regarding the proposals made and added that they are discussional. He pointed out that if it is supported by the possibility for the court to take care of the local criminality, this should be carried out at the earliest possible stage of the proceedings at the stage of sending the application to the defendant. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 854-01-44, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Presentation on behalf of the importer. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the aim of the Bill I present to you is to ensure easy, cheap and effective access to justice of disabled persons when they have disputes with their insurance company, the Guarantee Fund or the National Bureau of Bulgarian Motor Insurance. What's the problem? The general principle of the Civil Procedure Code establishing the competent court provides that the case is to be dealt with before that court closest to the address, respectively, to the defendant's seat. The defendant in the cases we are talking about now are mainly insurance companies whose headquarters is in Sofia. Thus, cases that have nothing to do with Sofia are concentrated in Sofia courts. Dellas, for example, of the crash of the Five-Four are viewed in Sofia. Moreover, this is not logically justified, it also leads to quite serious practical consequences for the outcome of the case, since the elements of proof in this type of case are, above all, those elements of the factual composition of the unlawful damage, i.e. the facts that occurred at the site of the event. This leads to a journey not only of the injured persons from the respective settlement to Sofia, but also a journey of experts, witnesses and other participants in the process. This, of course, also leads to a greater difficulty in determining the factual circumstances underlying the outcome of the case. Therefore, at the end of the year, the National Assembly took measures in this direction, and under alternative conditions provided for exceptions to the general rule of this type of case, namely that the courts may also be competent at the address of the applicant or at the place of the event. However, this has failed for the first six months of this year. The reasons why the cases remain in Sofia are complex, they are objective and subjective in nature and perhaps between the two readings or today, if there is a debate, we can refer to them in more detail. The point is that the cases remain in Sofia. Why is that a problem? Besides, as we have already explained the practical direction, easy and cheap access to a court would have made sense and only when this court is able quickly and qualitatively to deal with the case. We know and often talk in this Chamber about a major problem of the Bulgarian judiciary, namely the uneven burden of the various jurisdictions in the country. This burden is actually an essential element of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. It has been repeatedly written in the concepts, and now in the policy of the new Supreme Judicial Council, it is also subject to observation by our international observers. Why am I mentioning this? It may seem to you that insurance cases are only a small detail in all this difficulty of better distribution of cases in our judicial system. However, the scale of the problem is impressive. More than half of the cases in Sofia City Court concern this type of dispute. More than one third of the appeal cases in the Sofia Administrative Court are on this issue. And it became clear to the Legal Committee that over 80% or about 80% of the cases conducted in Sofia are by plaintiffs whose address registration is not here and for events that are not here. The change we propose will contribute seriously to the unloading of the Bulgarian courts, respectively the burden of others who are not sufficiently burdened, and this will have a good effect on the system and on the citizens. I hope that we can confirm today the consensus we have reached in the Legal Committee on this matter. I am obliged to thank my colleagues from the Legal Commission, who have shown understanding and supported the Bill, and personally the Chair of the Legal Commission, who has made it move forward. I hope that today we will confirm this consensus without rushing, but at a clear pace to move forward, looking at the various proposals that will take place between first and second reading, reflecting the views of the institutions concerned and achieving texts in the interests of citizens and our judiciary. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov, for presenting the bill. We're moving on to his discussion. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I preferred to speak in the finals, but there was no desire for other speeches. I would like to emphasise the following on this bill. As the report pointed out, the basis and the focus of my speech was that this topic was discussed in September and October last year particularly intensively and strongly. At that time, in the big debate on the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, we did not decide to change the conviction in the way proposed in this bill. This was because we were aware of both the pros and the shortcomings in this decision regarding the distribution of cases. It is true that a new fact has emerged in this debate, which is essential in this direction, I would say that for the first time we saw the exact numbers in terms of the number of civil cases in the Sofia City Court, which are in insurance claims and claims for compensation. Turns out this size is about halfway there. I also admit that I was quite surprised by the severity of these kinds of cases. I was surprised, but if we have to honestly analyze this fact and this number, there is an explanation. The explanation is that this share of the cases for damages and insurance claims is because that is our trust in justice. The parties already go to court only when there is no other way to resolve their disputes. This, unfortunately, is a negative forecast that the people we work in this area made 15 years ago. It is also indicative that, in any case, we must not stop trying to strengthen trust in the judiciary. Outside the principled issues, I'd like to return to the specific bill. I declare and recognise that the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs was entirely in the direction of obtaining guarantees that such a legal solution would not be politicised. On behalf of the importers, my colleague Zarkov tried to be consistent in this commitment, and indeed our aim is not to politicize this issue, although I cannot say that such trends are not seen in the Magistrates. Evidence of this is the fact that 84 judges of the Sofia City Court signed a request demanding that the Legal Commission and the Supreme Judicial Council appear at the appointed time at the Court of Justice for discussion. I will not comment on this request on its formal side, on its relation to the Constitution and the legal principles, but I will state that we have always been as responsible as possible with regard to any application by the Bulgarian magistrate, no matter how it was presented "Whether in the form of a petition, an urgent letter, a statement in the debate, or a legal opinion published or expressed even in a judicial or interpretation act." This is because we believe that we should continue the tendency to work towards strengthening the institutionality and independence of the judiciary. We trust that this system will respond reciprocally to our efforts and will be jealous of compliance with and enforcement of the law. To conclude, it is obvious that on this bill we will have a technical debate that will lead to the best and most correct editing. I believe that in this case, too, an appropriate solution will be found to respond and respond to this situation. However, I stress that we continue to expect that the burden issues will not be resolved partially, separately, in part, but to see the overall picture and already drawn up a burden card and for the distribution of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start from where my colleague Kirilov graduated for the workload. Yes, indeed, we should not solve the burden problems in a piece, but I am looking at this bill not only in the direction of solving the problem of the workload of the Sofia City Court, for which we already have specific data, but also in the direction of relief of the injured person. In this sense, I believe that the bill still needs an amendment between first and second readings in the direction of extending the options for the selection of a claim by the injured person not only more permanent but also at the current address, taking into account respectively the provisions of the Civil Registration Act and the position expressed in that direction by the magistrates of the Civil and Commercial College of the Supreme Court of Cassation. I also believe that the ruling proposed in § 3 of the Bill on the plea of conviction after the first hearing in the case is too late and will create more problems than will solve such problems. I believe that in this sense there should also be a clarification of the text. In principle, both objectives pursued by this bill are positive, legitimate. Such questions and proposals we discussed last year when the draft amendments and additions to the Civil Procedure Code were reviewed. In that debate, we did not come up with any concrete solutions. I hope that this time we will have solutions in a positive direction and I call on you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 854-01-44, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The offer is accepted. I'm interrupting work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u107	We continue with: SECOND READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will present Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, a procedure for admission to the hall of Mrs. Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry; Mr. Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of IRA; Mrs. Tsvetana Belomacheva, State Expert in the Directorate General Policy in the field of Hydromelioration and Fisheries and Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u109	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 73 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u110	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-29, submitted by Ivan Nikolov Mihovski and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. On 22 May 2018, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the adoption of a resolution adopted by the Council of the European Union on 22 May 2018. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u111	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 80, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u112	Proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 1 and 2: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15c the following 1. In para. 3 the word "suddenly" is deleted. 2. The creation of para. 4. In the list of complex and significant dams referred to in Annex 1 to art. 13, p. 1 of the Act on Waters used for aquaculture in networked cages with significant production shall be defined water protection levels which ensure a minimum permissible depth occupied by gridded cages. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15d the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "aquacultures" the areas and the levels of security are added. 2. In para. 2 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u113	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 1 and 2, with a text of § 1 on a proposal from the Commission, and the amendments to the text of § 2 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u114	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal to drop out. 2. supports, in principle, the proposal to drop out of t. 3 which is reflected in its systematic position in § 4 and the proposal under paragraph 4. 1 is withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal to drop out. 2 and supports, in principle, the proposal to drop the item. 3, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "possibly', the word "possibly' shall be added. 2. A new para is being created. 2, 3 and 4: The persons wishing to be granted a ticket for recreational fisheries, except those referred to in art. 23, para. 2, p. 1 shall complete a statement on a template approved by the Executive Director of the IRA declaring that they know the requirements of the rules applicable to recreational fisheries. (3) Up to the 10th number of every month the persons under art. 22a shall present to the IRA the original copy of the completed declarations under para. 2 for the previous month. (4) No ticket shall be issued for recreational fisheries without a completed declaration under para. 2. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 5 and 6...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u115	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech relates to the rapporteur's reading that those wishing to be issued a ticket for recreational fisheries fill in a corresponding declaration that they are aware of the criminal liability they bear. Dear importers of this proposal, you should know that even in ancient Roman law it is said that Ignorantia legis neminem excusat, i.e. the knowledge of the law is not an excuse for anyone! Why should this provisional declaration be filled in? What is the point when a person who commits an appropriate violation is liable with or without a declaration? How expensive will it be and it will make it difficult for the administration to fill out such a declaration? How much is this gonna cost? And instead of this resource being given for fishing, for filling in the fish stocks in Bulgaria, we will fill out declarations, spend money, and it for meaningless declarations?! There is no need to fill out such a declaration. First was the proposal to pass the relevant exam, which, thank God, was not supported, was withdrawn, but now we are getting a senseless declaration that costs the whole process, creates administration The ignorance of the law is no excuse for anyone! This is also with the caselaw in the Republic of Bulgaria in both administrative and criminal matters and civil cases! I suggest that this text be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u117	Mr. Popov, you are proposing that the entire text be removed from para. Two? Okay. You have the floor for lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I do not see any case or dilemma in this matter whether to fill out such a declaration or not. I see nothing wrong with having another guarantee in the direction of confirming the knowledge of the laws. He's right, Mr. Popov. Undoubtedly, any citizen who is undertaking any activity relating to legislation must know him, but by guaranteeing himself once again with such a declaration his knowledge, I believe that we will have additional security that the relevant violations will not be committed. My line is that way. I support the proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Any other lines? I won't. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, this is absolutely no guarantee! It is like declaring all of us or all Bulgarian citizens with one declaration: I will not commit violations and crimes because I know the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's a legal and logical nonsense. That's no guarantee! Yeah, it's gonna be a guarantee of appreciation, of creating a new administration, of administering these declarations, if you're gonna even print them out. It's expenses. Necessary expenses in the already heavy budget for Bulgaria! There are so many misses in the budget for a number of payments. What day are the mothers of disabled children protesting here? Point that money in the right direction! There's no need for such a statement. This is an unnecessary administration, I repeat, with unnecessary expenditure for the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Instead of this money being directed in the right direction, you will simply fill in some unnecessary, legally insignificant declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will address the majority responsible for those who will support the proposed texts, which amend the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. The government's commitment you support is to alleviate and reduce the administrative burden. With these texts are you aware that you are not fulfilling the commitment of the government of Boyko Borisov? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] You increase the administrative burden of Bulgarian citizens and in particular those who practice recreational fishing. The completion of this declaration is linked to the commitment that anyone wishing to fish will make this effort to waste time to verify that he has completed this declaration and made it available to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency. This one, first. Second to the esteemed representatives of the... United Patriarchs........................................................................................ Colleagues, in this hug where you are together with the representatives of GERB Party, if you think you will suffocate them, you are very mistaken! With the request that you have made that you support the proposed texts... My logic is this: you catch, you get sick of the same disease... that the administration will solve the issue before you during the elections, with the support you may rely on the agency in question to provide support for you when the term of office of this government is over. Do you need an administration? Because these texts will actually increase the administration, which we have repeatedly proven to support the GERB party.. GERB actually rely on it, it and the families. The pressure on employees from the Executive Agency will also be increased by "United Patriarchs." They can't vote for both GERB and for the United Patriarchs, you know? This confirms the second thesis that tensions in the ruling majority are beginning to grow and generate tension even in relation to an executive agency. Otherwise, I must remind you that when Bulgarian citizens with these provisions make them fill out this declaration, you usually expect to be congratulated. You know how they greet Bulgarian citizens? [[Comments from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u123	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Iankov, I agree with everything you have said, but you have missed that this declaration will also contain personal data. How will this personal data be operated? How much will this cost the Bulgarian taxpayer? The bill is silent here. This thing is not foreseen even in the motives and impact assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u125	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Another line? Line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Iankov, I do not understand your pathos and dramatism, which here you are betting on the issue of declarations. You are completely misinterpreting the requirement for a declaration in the wrong context. The declaration in this case would help and I believe that the importers were motivated by making the proposal to ease the proof of the form of guilt, of intent. Once you fill out such a declaration, undoubtedly and categorically from now on, you release any administratively punishing authority or punishing authority to prove intent. Since my colleague Iankov is a connoisseur of the Ministry of Interior Act, I would ask him: what should we say the neighborhood policemen in violation of the order make you fill out a declaration? They don't keep you, they don't take any other measures, but they make a warning.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u127	It's not the neighborhood. Meet the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u128	Yes, you can safely answer me, you can also correct the thesis with regard to the implementation of the Ministry of Interior Act, but I stress that this is a practice in criminal procedures and including administrative criminal procedures. There's no pathos on the personal data either. And now fishing clubs are operators and meet the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. So you're not right at all, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? There's no other line. Mr. Iankov, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think the texts discussed should be ridiculous and it's not about something funny. We are opposed to increasing the administrative burden, including in the part increasing and swelling the state of administration. With regard to Mr. Kirilov's reply, I ask myself how Mr. Kirilov is still chair of the Legal Commission, provided that from the parliamentary tribune, first, he shows the unknowns of fundamental, fundamental, in law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u131	Mr. Yankov, please. However, with respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u132	What I'm... Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u133	I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u134	I respond to Mr. Kirilov's line. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I have the right to qualify what he said.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u135	Don't break it, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u136	Secondly, what he actually said is: everyone who wants to practice recreational fishing, you call it a criminal because you set an example with the warning protocols that are for crossing a crime and refer to a contingent that has been observed. That is to say, you have accepted that up to now, according to information from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, about 400,000. Bulgarian citizens are potential criminals and therefore have to fill out a declaration. However, on the other hand, the application for this declaration is nothing more than that the person is familiar with the legislation. And in this part I sincerely advise you or stop with this echidical attitude, which I do not accept to us as MPs, but to the Bulgarian citizens. And, on the other hand, to consider whether you have the qualifications to continue to be President of the Legal Commission. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u137	I'm paying attention to you again, Mr. Yankov! You're disrespecting your colleagues. [[Heckling]] Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for dropping the text of this. 2. Vote 126 MPs: 41, against 69, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1, which becomes § 3. They voted 121 MPs: 91, against 16, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Negative vote. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this proposal as it further burdens the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and lovers of fishing in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Please continue, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u140	Proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4 shall spend annually not less than 5 per cent of the value of the tickets sold by them during the previous year for recreational fishing to catch the sites under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 designated for recreational fisheries. A protocol shall be drawn up in accordance with the order of the regulation under art. 15, para. 1. (6) Every year, upon a proposal from the Executive Director of the IRA, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall by order designate the sites for fishing under para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u141	Statements? You have the floor, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What is proposed in § 4 is the redistribution of funds that enter and are subsequently spent on fishing at recreational fisheries sites. In the current texts, 80% of the ticket value goes to the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture; 20% goes to those who distribute, i.e. those who sell tickets, which is a change of the Law a few years ago, when the ratio was 90 to 10. Even in the motives of importers, it says that the financial interest that those who offer tickets have 20% is too high, so 5% of the value of what they receive is proposed to go on a fishing procedure. Excuse me, my fellow Members, but this is a negligible amount of money which, with a special procedure by the Executive Agency, the Minister of Agriculture must be used in some form. During a Commission meeting, it was about 26 thousand. lv. Twenty-six thousand. lv. We say we do miracles. That is, we are creating prerequisites for these recreational fishing sites to be hooked. Look, I understand if 5% of the 20 go for this activity, we'd support it, but for 26,000. lv. We're signing such a complicated procedure, I'm sorry, it really doesn't feel right. Rather, the proposal should have been, which should have been formally now, if I did it, 15% would remain in those who distribute the tickets and 5% would go for the fishing activities in these sites. But 5%, I'm telling you, 26 grand. lv. Nothing and a half! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u143	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I first put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Professor Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 41, Against 49, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: 75 against 11, 14 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u144	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 14. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u145	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the rejection of § 3 as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 14. They voted 116 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u146	A proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Establishment of a New § 5. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 3
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u147	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly created § 5, which the Commission supports. They voted 120 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u148	Proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 4. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "Conservation', the "reproduction' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u149	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 6 which the Commission supports. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u150	Proposal by the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 4. Proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 39a. (1) Fishing with net fishing gear shall be prohibited at the sites referred to in Article 1. 3, para. 1, with the exception of fishing carried out: 1. in the waters of the Black Sea and the Danube, under the conditions of art. 17; 2. by persons registered in accordance with art. 25 at the water sites for which registration has been carried out. (2) It shall be prohibited to carry and carry net fishing gear. (3) The prohibition under para. 2 does not apply to persons: 1. holding a valid permit for commercial fishing under art. 17; 2. registered according to the order of art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u151	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the purpose of para. 2, namely: the transport and transport of net fishing gear is prohibited, but this is how it is written. First of all, in practice, you prohibit trade in such networks at all, you prohibit shipping companies from carrying such networks and you almost incriminate their ownership. Do you know how many crimes, say, were committed with a cool weapon in Bulgaria? Give, forbade both possession and carrying a cold weapon. Maybe people can fill out a declaration before buying a knife from the market. That's what you do with this law. More than that. It doesn't describe what kind of nets. Because, honourable MPs, there are networks that are 50 cm long by 30 cm for recreational fishing and they cannot be carried and carried, and also throughout the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Well, put it in some diameter of the corresponding water space. Let's say 500 meters, 1 km, do something. And that's a second reading. You announced that between first and second you would make changes to this text. You didn't do anything, you're just banning the transport and transport of network fishing gear. Those who carry network fishing gear will be responsible with all the strictness of the Law. This is absolutely illogical from both legal and from any point of view text in this law. I'm offering Al. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? Only for para. 2 you have an offer, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u154	Yes, paragraphs two and three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u155	Yeah, well, drop it. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the proposal of Mr Popov, who proposed from the version of § 4, which becomes § 7. Two and three. They voted 114 MPs: 43, against 59, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4, which shall become § 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 121 MPs: 86 against 15, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u156	A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 9, p. 1 the words "three names', "GNN', "ID card number', "COMMERCIAL' and "COMMERCIAL' shall be replaced by "COMMERCIAL'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u157	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 8. They voted 109 MPs: 105, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u158	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... A new article shall be Art. 44. It shall be prohibited to carry and transport technical devices and electrical equipment, except where the person holds a valid catch permit for research purposes under art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u159	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u160	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under b. "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) To be created t. 6a: 6a. draw up a protocol for the surrender of the detainee to the relevant police authorities; the content of the report shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 8; (d) (b) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. in the performance of their duties, they shall have the right to detain a person who is not subject to a legal order and/or resists the execution of a legal order; in the event of the detention of an intruder, they shall immediately inform the competent police authorities; c) create t. 9a "9c: 9a. in the case of the identification of infringements of this law and of regulations, technical means or systems taking pictures or recordings shall be used: (a) the offence, the date and the exact time of the offence committed; (b) the perpetrator, witnesses and means used to commit the infringement; 9b. use motor vehicles with special driving mode; 9c. use physical force and assistance after warning, except for cases of sudden attack; use of physical force and assistance shall take into account the specific situation, nature of the infringement and the identity of the intruder, and the employees of the IRA shall be liable: (a) where possible to protect health and to take all measures to protect the lives of those against whom they are directed; (b) suspend the use of physical force and assistance immediately after reaching the objective of the measure applied; (c) not to use physical force and assistance in relation to visible minors and pregnant women; (d) prepare a report to their supervisor when using physical force and assistance; (d) point 11 is amended as follows: "11." verify vessels when stopped or anchored; in border or customs control areas the suspension and verification shall be carried out jointly with the authorities competent for carrying out it; (e) create a t. 11a: 11 o'clock. stop with a stop-lamp signal and check vehicles on the territory of the relevant area in which the water object they control is located; 2. The creation of para. 8. The conditions and procedures for the use of auxiliary vehicles, motor vehicles with special traffic regime and stop-sticks by IRA employees, as well as the organisation and order of the forced departure of intruders with unidentified identity in the nearest regional management of the Ministry of Interior shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, agreed with the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u161	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I made a commitment to Mr. Tsvetanov, who is not in the Chamber, to introduce all MPs to the statement made on behalf of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture in relation to the amendments to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Mr. Ivo Papazov at the Internal Commission announced: From the point of view of powers, yes, the employees of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture do not have any legal powers. I'm giving you examples: they're stopping the intruder, there's no I.D. In a small town where there is a police car in charge of 3 villages, we do not meet any support. In this regard, there have been absolutely justified and changes made concerning the powers of our employees. Firstly, this is recognition by the Executive Agency that the Ministry of Interior is not working. Adapting from the functions of the Ministry of Interior?? What do you propose to do in this regard? To replace the commitments and powers of the staff of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, part of those powers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the police powers. And what exactly are you suggesting? In the performance of their duties, the staff of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency shall be entitled to detain a person who is not subject to a legal order and/or resists the execution of a legal order, which I repeat, is a duplication of the activities of the Ministry of Interior, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, is a transfer of responsibility. I am impressed that the Minister of Interior periodically announces that his office is not responsible. Who will be responsible? Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture? Do employees have the qualifications to carry out detention? This is a specific work for which the employees of the Ministry of Interior are being trained, and not a day, not two. Use motor vehicles with special driving mode. What kind of special regime is this? As in the Ministry of Interior or as in the employees of the Forest Agency? And why do they have to have a special regime? It's because they have police powers. Sorry. It's written down, and I'm paying attention to you, if possible, to protect your health and to take all measures to protect the lives of those who are being targeted at their actions. Colleagues, what does "possibly" mean? And what is the measure whether or not there is a possibility? Do the employees of any state structure not have the commitment to protect the health and life of the Bulgarian citizens? The first proposal, if possible, shall be rejected, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u163	What does it mean, Mr. Iankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u164	Point 9c (b) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) How precise are the texts you've proposed, have you noticed? Sub-point (b) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 9c: not to use physical force and assistance in relation to visible minors and pregnant women. What is the measure for "visible" and "invisible"? [[Radio.]] What does "visible" mean? These individuals are either underage or underage. Dear colleagues, what you are proposing is the fruit of your frustration. I propose that these texts be dropped and that you consider how to engage civil society, citizens to support the work of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With repression from the state...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u165	The weather, Mr. Yankoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u166	...you won't have any effect. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u167	I take it you want the whole letter to go into.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u168	There are three proposals: all of them. 9c to fall, from point...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u169	Okay. We are starting to vote on Mr. Iankov's proposals. Are there any other speeches? - What's the line? Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u170	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This Paragraph 10, apart from being ridiculous, I don't know what else to say about it. I propose for these IRA employees here to add, say, in art. 8 that they are obliged to go through the relevant training, which the Ministry of Interior's employees are going through, because they practically have the same functions as the Ministry of Interior's employees, only they didn't pass through the Ministry of Interior School. They do not know how to use these aids, how to deal with them, so that they do not damage life and health, which is the highest value. In a modern-day rule of law, a member of the European Union should be a single value for the lives and health of citizens. However, it is recorded here if possible to protect them from individuals who are not trained to protect the lives and health of Bulgarian citizens. This is what you are proposing with this text - changing the powers of the Ministry of Interior, transferring them to the IRA and fulfilling their powers by untrained employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u171	Am I to understand that you're proposing that IRA employees go through training? That's kind of what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u172	To go through the training that the Ministry of Interior has gone through.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u173	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Apostolov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u174	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The time has not yet come for debate on the vote, you have only just submitted it. These statements I find them to be debates during a vote because we look here at the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, and do not make speeches on a vote of mistrust. In relation to what you asked for, colleagues, I think your thesis is untenable, as it is well known what poacher means and meet him at twelve, at one or two o'clock in the morning and face him on the shore of some inner watershed, or, God forbid, inside the pool. Let me also give you an example that on May 1st at Batak Dam two IRA inspectors were thrown out of their service boat in the water of the dam by precisely such poachers, who subsequently proved to have placed over 2.7 km of nets, which the IRA employees duly removed the next day and were burned with several hundred kilos of fish in them, respectively. In what way, colleagues... [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] I'm not going into your rhetoric.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u175	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u176	I think we should take these things very seriously, colleagues. Let us support this law so that these people can perform their functions, as you have not walked, perhaps you do not know how dangerous these people are, in my opinion they are even relapseists, because they are feeding on this kind of illegal activity. I can tell you that you both left and right, because I'm from very recently here, maybe you created them. And I'll tell you why you created them because by changing the status of inland waters in the years back, many inland waters have been taken away from the possibility of being used for business fishing legally. And these people, who are now poachers, were not poachers, they worked in these inland waters, made their livelihoods and livelihoods for their families. After changes have been made to the Green Seas, these waters have been stripped of the possibility of doing business, placed under some kind of protection, and these people have been left without livelihood. It is these people that we have made poachers because they have spent their whole lives feeding on fish and its sale. When they have taken away the legal opportunity to do so, they, of course, start doing it the same way, but illegally. I call on everyone in this House to support these texts, as they are on the Commission, so that we can stop these attacks and attacks on the lives and health of the people defending the institution, the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u177	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, this is your attitude towards the security sector, which is also seen in this bill, which leads to the vote of mistrust.. the lack of security in Bulgarian citizens for being protected by the state, by the authorities who are called to protect them. And here you are transferring the powers of the Ministry of Interior to another agency. In Bulgaria there are bodies that are called by Constitution and by law to fight crime. These are the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the prosecution, our security services, but not the IRA. The IRA hasn't entered these organs yet. Until now, because that's what you're going to do with this law. You incriminate certain activities of transporting and transporting networks, and assign the IRA police officers to arrest by supporting means. What's with all the help? You know, under the Ministry of Interior Act, what are aids? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u180	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Apostolov, first of all, I would like to assure you: the BSP is never guilty of anything, either for privatization or for dams or for TTZS. They're never guilty of anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u181	On the subject, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u182	So have no doubt about it. The principle issue on which a decision is to be taken is as follows: is there a possibility for employees outside the structure of the Ministry of Interior to exercise their powers in part? This issue stands for fisheries and aquaculture, stands for the protection of forests, even stood for Ivancheva's arrest, for the employees of KPCONPI. A decision must be made in principle on this matter. Otherwise, speculation about powers is absolutely untenable. As responsible as we are, I cannot respect the attempt to interpret the powers, because they are classic. They are established in the Ministry of Interior Act in this law, both in the previous law and in the previous law, and in the one that brought BSP along with colleagues from the DPS during the Oresharski government. Those are the powers. The question is whether they should be provided. I don't remember, but you do remember how they acted during socialism, did they act together with a militiaman or without a militiaman?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u183	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Apostolov, with your statement you have contradicted, but you do not seem to understand that abdication from basic activities, replaced by a law of the Ministry of Interior, leads to chaos. Transferring responsibility leads to irresponsibility. When you mention faults in respect of offenders, you propose with these changes that offenders become criminals and appeal with the proposed changes to the police powers of employees of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency to lead to their protection. Incompetently speaking, you will not let anyone down because there is no defense. If you listened carefully to my statement regarding qualifications, when it comes to the use of force in detention, you would also answer the question of whether they are protected. Regarding how the intruder becomes a criminal, at the moment you are in government, which helps the rich to become richer, the poor to become poorer...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u185	Mr. Yankov, I'll take your word for it if you don't talk about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u186	Why, wasn't it on the subject?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u187	For those you target as criminals, you must not use the power of the state, but through measures to raise the standard and find employment to achieve a democratic society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u188	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Time's up. A hole? There won't be. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on Mr. Yankov's proposal. 9c to drop. Please vote. Vote 113 MPs: 41, against 69, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Yankov's second proposal. 9c (c)........................................................................................................ Those are the first two words in the sentence. They voted 106 MPs: 37 against 60, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants a re-vote.]] Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u189	Madam President, please invite the Members of the National Assembly with the appropriate sound signal to enter the Chamber of the National Assembly and exercise their right to vote in connection with the proposed proposal. They voted 106 people. I think there are others present in this Chamber and in the couloirs that can participate in the vote and prevent this ridiculousness. [[Loud voices in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Gather together the parliamentary group and inform your MPs that we are still in parliamentary mode and working. I will give the appropriate sound signal and ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. It's a re-vote. They voted 123 MPs: 48 against 67, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote again Mr. Yankov's proposal. 9c (in) to fall. They voted 123 MPs: 35, against 74, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on it. 2 screate para. 8: The employees of the Ministry of Interior, on a proposal from Mr. Popov, to add the employees to the training, as the employees of the Ministry of Interior are going through. They voted 120 MPs: 31, against 67, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 10 of the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u191	Vote 124 MPs: 93 against 22, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. For a negative vote there is the word Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not repeat all the arguments that have given me reason to vote against, I will add one more. Based on my practice and on my observations to the Executive Agency, I am not sure whether these great powers, which have just been given by your vote, have been given to other organisations outside this agency. There's been such a practice so far. There are contracts concluded with the Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency (AIF) those powers are committed to non-governmental fisheries organisations. That's a serious motive to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u193	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Please continue with the presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u194	Under § 7, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u195	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 7. They voted 116 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u196	There is a proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: For a person who issued a ticket for recreational fishing in violation of Article 2. 22, para. 4, a fine is imposed from 100 to 400 BGN, respectively a penalty of 400 to 1600 BGN. § 12. A new article shall be created. 67a: Art. 67a. Legal person who violates the provision of art. 22a, para. 5, shall be punished with a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 1 the words "seven" shall be replaced by "seven" and "seven" and "seven" shall be replaced by "seven." 39a, para. § 14. A new article shall be created. 78: Art. 78. (1) The Executive Director of the IRA or an official authorised by him with an order shall, for a period of up to one year, withdraw the right to distribute tickets for recreational fishing to a person under art. 22a, para. 1 which does not issue a ticket for recreational fishing to a person under art. 23, para. Two or three. (2) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop the execution. § 15. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 81a: Art. 81a. Transport or transport of net fishing gear and/or technical equipment and equipment for catching with electric current in violation of art. 39a, para. 2 and/or art. 44 is punishable by a fine or a penalty of 2000 to 3000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, in § 14 "Art. 78, sees the lack of any legal and logical link between the texts in this bill. It is said that the Executive Director of the IRA or an official authorised by him with an order shall, for a period of up to one year, withdraw the right to distribute tickets for recreational fishing to a person under art. 22a, para. 1. That is, when a legal person or the person who distributes the ticket does not issue one because the corresponding declaration that you want at the beginning of this bill has not been completed, he will bear this penalty. I ask: when a minor or minor has the right to fish, what declaration will he fill out and on behalf of whom? What declaration will a minor fill out and what responsibility will he have, fellow lawyers and non-jurists?! Precise these texts. That declaration had to be dropped. Here again shines her bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 90 against 5, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u200	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 48, 49 and 50: It's 48. "Help funds" are the funds under art. 85, para. 3 of the Ministry of Interior Act. 49. It is not less than 20 per cent for the species concerned from the IRA statistics for the previous two years. 50. The level of protection is a level of water that meets the minimum requirements for carrying out the physiological functions of the kept species, as well as for production activities in the establishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u201	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 8, which shall become § 16. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u202	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u203	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the amendment of the name of the division in "Concluding provisions'. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u204	A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 17, 18 and 19: Seventeen. In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. (c) in § 12a of the Transitional and Final Provisions, after the word "territories', the members of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture under art shall be added. 54, para. 1 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture in the exercise of their control powers over the use and conservation of fisheries resources. § 18. In the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 the words "the contents' and "the contents' are deleted. (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: If agreed in the contract, the tenant may rehire a part or the entire subject of the contract and is obliged to notify the landlord immediately in writing of the rehire. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "the contents' and "the contents' are deleted; (b) in para. The first sentence of the sentence of the first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of the notary case. The third sentence shall be replaced by the notary case shall be replaced by the notary shall be kept by the notary; (c) in para. 3 the words "the content and the statement" and "to comply with the requirements of art. 4a (a) are deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 3 all over the words the content and the statement shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37b, para. The words "only' shall be deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37p, para. 1 after the words "small-scale property" "or parts thereof" shall be added, which shall be determined by a situational sketch. 6. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (SG, No. 42 from 2018): (a) Paragraph 10: (aa) in para. 1 after the word "supplier' is added for a period of more than one year after the word "supplier'. 4a (a) is added. Article 1 (a) and the words (b) and (c) and (c) shall be inserted after the entry into force of this Agreement and shall be inserted after the entry into force of this Agreement. 4b "and' is concluded for a period of more than one year and is deleted; (bb) in para. 2 the words "one-month period from the entry into force of this Act' shall be replaced by "one-month period' until 31 July 2018'; (c) in para. 3 the word "supplied" is replaced by the word "supplied" under para. 1.................................................................................. (b) § 15, para. 2 in the first sentence, the words "the content' and "the second sentence' are deleted. § 19. In the Law on Landing in Agriculture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the words "save" and "save" are deleted, in the sentence second, the words "save" and the words "save" shall be replaced by "saved" in the third sentence after the words "saved" and the words "notary" shall be added in the sentence and in the fourth sentence shall be replaced by "notary" shall be replaced by "saved." 2. In para. 2 the words "the contents' and "the contents' are deleted. 3. Allinea 5 is canceled. The points 1, 2 and 3 are technical corrections proposed by the Financial Texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u205	Statements? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We have a proposal relating to the leases, which is due to a written notification to the landlord of the rehire. So far, the leases didn't have such a requirement, only in the lease law. During the debate in the Commission, we adopted the principle that, when renting agricultural land with rental contracts, land owners should be informed of this rehired. I'm making an offer to edit para. Four, which I'll read. The point is that when we have one year's agreements and in them the lease contracts lead to the coma and consolidation of the land, then no notification is due, but when the lease contract is transferred for the entire term of the contract, then the owners must be informed by the tenant. The editing is as follows: If agreed in the contract, the tenant may rehire part or the entire subject of the contract. When rehiring is for the entire term of the contract, the tenant is obliged to immediately notify the landlord in writing of the rehire, which corresponds accordingly to the proposals in the Rent Act adopted in the previous National Assembly. This is my proposal for para. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u207	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u208	I believe that the proposal made by Professor Bachvarova is resonant, it also reflects part of the debate that took place in the Commission at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Another statement? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on Professor Bachvarova's proposal in § 18, item. 1 in point (b) the new content of para. 4 to change the way Professor Bachvarova read it earlier. Vote 116 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the creation of new paragraphs 17, 18 and 19. Vote 114 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u210	According to § 10 there is a proposal received by the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. There has been a proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There was a proposal from the MP Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. Art....) 238 is amended as follows: Art. 238. (1) Whoever fishes, catches fish and/or other aquatic organisms by using explosive, poisonous or stunning substances shall be punished by imprisonment up to one year and a fine of 10 thousand to 15 thousand levs or by probation. (2) Whoever fishes, catches fish and/or other aquatic organisms: 1. with technical devices and electrical equipment without a valid permit; 2. with fishing nets in sites other than the Black Sea, the Danube River and the sites for which the person has registration under art. 25 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture and has entered into force two or more criminal decrees for administrative infringements under the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture; 3. in prohibited places or underprivileged; 4. in non-industrial waters during the breeding season of the fish; 5. of species prohibited from catching shall be punished by imprisonment for up to six months and a fine from five thousand to ten thousand levs or with probation. (3) For a crime under para. 1 and 2 punishment is imprisonment from one to three years and fine from fifteen thousand to twenty thousand BGN when: 1. is carried out by two or more persons who have spoken in advance about its implementation; 2. has been carried out in collaboration with an employee of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture who has benefited from his position of office; 3. has been remanded; 4. The subject of the crime is large in size. (4) The caught fish, other aquatic organisms caught, as well as the instruments and means by which the offence was committed, shall be taken away for the benefit of the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u211	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u212	Thank you, Madam President. And in the current Penal Code in Art. 337 is clearly written that whoever produces, processes, modifies, develops, stores notice, stores explosives, firearms, nuclear weapons, ammunition, and so on, is punished by imprisonment from one to six years. The possession itself, without due permission, is punishable by imprisonment from one to six years. You write here that whoever fishes or catches fish using explosive, poisonous or stunning substances, those already contained in art. 337 is punishable by imprisonment for up to one year. In other words, you significantly reduce the penalty, even though these substances are used illegally, poisonous substances for catching fish. The very storage of these substances is punished more severely. You open a loophole in the Law, obviously it is not thought of on this text of the Law. Next, et cetera. It is recorded again with fishing nets. Dear Members of the National Assembly, you are telling the Bulgarian citizens one thing because you have not described exactly what is meant by a legal definition of a fishing network. Also under this law, a fishing network should be understood, and the jargon is called "Tsapalo".50 cm by 30 cm. Some kid goes fishing in some dam with this net and it's criminally responsible! Or an old man, an adult, it doesn't matter. Precise this text! It is not in such a crude way to amend the Penal Code through the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u214	I propose that §10 be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u215	All of it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u216	All of it, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u217	Okay. Any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put, first of all, to the vote the proposal of Mr Popov § 10, which becomes § 20, the entire version shall be dismissed. They voted 112 MPs: 33, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 10, which shall become § 20 of the Commission Report. They voted 104 MPs: 72, against 23, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u218	There is a proposal received by the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. The regulation under art. 54, para. 8 shall be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u219	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 9, which shall become § 21 of the Commission Report. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u220	The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 18, t. 6 (a) (b) (b) shall enter into force on 20 June 2018 (b)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u221	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of the new § 22. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and thus the amendments to the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE APPROVAL DECISION OF THE CHANGE AND APPROVAL OF THE RULES FOR ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN No 839-02-6, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 April 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva, to read the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u222	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I present the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the plenary hall Mrs. Maya Manolova supplier of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u223	Please, a voting regime to allow the Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman in plenary. Vote 87 MPs: 80 against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall, please. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u224	♪ I can't believe on draft decision approving amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman, No 839-02-6, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 April 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, held on 10 May 2018, a draft decision on the approval of amendment and supplement to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the Ombudsman was discussed, No 839 02 6, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman. The draft decision was presented by the Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova. She stressed that the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman are necessary to bring him into line with the adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman (No. 20 from 2018). They relate to the Ombudsman's opportunity to defend, but also to promote the endangered rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as to the extended scope of his power to deal with complaints and signals of violations or endangered rights and freedoms of citizens against individuals. Those changes shall also be imposed in relation to the accreditation procedure of the Ombudsman institution before the United Nations Accreditation Sub-Committee for the acquisition of the highest status as a protected institution. Ms. Manolova said she agrees with the legal and technical revision of the draft decision text and urged the MPs to accept the draft with the proposed editorials. The MPs united around the proposal and unanimously supported it. After the discussion and the proposals made, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously supported the text of the importer and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION approving a supplement to the Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure and Procedure The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman relating to § 11 of the Final provision of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Approves addition to the Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure and Procedure as follows: § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 shall be added at the end, as well as against persons of interest for violated or threatened rights and freedoms. 2. A t is created. 4a: 4a. make proposals and recommendations for the promotion and protection of the endangered rights and freedoms of citizens by individuals; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The 8th sentence is created second: "Observes and promotes the effective implementation of signed and ratified international acts in the field of human rights. " § 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 10a: Art. 10a. The Ombudsman's administration shall be appointed in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency, pluralism and responsibilities. § 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 10b: Art. 10b. (1) The selection of candidates for appointments in the Ombudsman's administration shall be carried out through a competition which may be internal (for Ombudsman employees) or external (for unlimited number of persons). (2) The announcement of vacant positions in the conduct of an external competition shall be published on the Ombudsman's website on the Internet. (3) Applicants for participation in the contest may submit documents in person, through an authorised person, by e-mail, by courier, and by mail with a registered letter with a return receipt. (4) The documents for participation in the contest, as required for taking a particular position, shall include: 1. an application (free text) indicating the position to be applied for, telephone and/or e-mail for contact, a description of the documents attached to the application; 2. a biographical reference with a detailed indication of the work and/or service experience accompanied by copies of documents for its verification; 3. a copy of a diploma for completed education; in the case of a diploma issued by a foreign institution of education, a certificate of recognized education and degree of education; 4. a copy of the certificate of competence issued by the Ministry of Justice where higher legal education and acquired capacity is required for the competition position; 5. copies of documents for acquired qualifications, knowledge of foreign languages and other skills, if required; 6. written recommendations relating to work and professional qualifications containing the name, address and contact number of the person who signed the recommendation (at the request of the applicant); 7. other documents relating to the requirements for taking up the post and specified in the order or advert. (5) The contest shall include a written part and an interview, except when holding a document contest, which shall include only an interview. (6) No contest shall be held for the appointment of the Head of Staff. (7) The written part shall consist in solving an open and closed type test and shall aim at verifying the applicant's knowledge in a specific area relating to the functions of the post for which it is applied. (8) The following criteria shall be used for conducting an interview: 1. knowledge of the Ombudsman's activities; 2. knowledge of the regulations; 3. approaches to achieving goals and results; 4. ability to work in a team; 5. analytical competence; 6. Communication skills. (9) The evaluation of the results of the contest shall be carried out by the Commission in a Chamber: Head of Cabinet, Secretary-General, Attorney General and Head/Director of the relevant department/director of the institution on a five-step scale in which the lowest assessment is a unit. The overall assessment shall be drawn up as arithmetic of the assessments of all the members of the Commission. When conducting a paper contest, the final evaluation is formed only on the basis of the results of the interview. (10) The results of the contest shall be reflected in a protocol signed by the members of the competition committee. (11) In case of reassignment and promotion, no contest shall be held if the staff member meets the requirements for taking up the new post. In such cases, the reassignment or increase shall be made on the basis of a written application submitted by the person or report. (12) Within 7 days of the drawing up of the minutes under para. 10 shall be notified to the candidate ranked first and may be appointed within 7 days of notification. The appointed person shall be required to be employed within two weeks of notification by the first sentence. For respectable reasons, this period shall be up to one month. (13) If the person does not work within the term under para. 12, the relationship is considered non-existent. (14) The employment of posts requiring education not higher than average (hygienist, driver, driver, driver) shall be carried out without a contest, drawing up a proposal to the Ombudsman by the Secretary-General to which the request from the applicant applies. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 is created t. 2a: It's 2a. to promote and protect the endangered rights and freedoms of citizens; Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u225	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Will there be speeches? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u226	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, in such a reduced composition as we are in, I will present a few doubts, concerns and try to alert you to what we are doing. To tell you the truth, I don't know what we're doing! Isn't there an institution, isn't there an organ that will alert us to what we're doing? The vice in things is back in the distant year 2003, when under foreign pressure we created this institution, right or wrong is another matter, of ombýdsman or ombudsmán. I think only Mr. Murdarov, who is a prominent specialist and who listens to the questions, can tell us where to put the emphasis. But the most important thing is not the emphasis. The issue is in this institution and the amendment to the 2003 Constitution, which created the figure of the Ombudsman. And an even bigger question about what we are doing today is in the very Law on the Ombudsman in which, in art. 3, para. 2 it is indicated that the National Assembly shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman. In the Constitution it is explicitly written in art. 87 who has a legislative initiative. I will not remind you who has a legislative initiative because, being here, we must be very clear about who has the right to legislative initiative and who can submit acts of acceptance to the National Assembly. In this case, I cannot explain how it dictates us and how we accept the Law on the Ombudsman as normal to oblige us to adopt the Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure. Once adopted, can the Ombudsman submit requests for amendments to these Rules? How, without any comments, have I examined this, has the Ombudsman's Rules been adopted and how now, without any comments, shall we not continue this vice and this error.. to adopt amendments to the Rules which have just been read? I wonder how we will accept these amendments................ whether an block, as read, or text by text?........................... Will there be no debate on these requests for changes and on these texts, and on some of them, I have a great deal against. Because, according to these changes, the Ombudsman starts to interfere in relations between individuals, as has been said, and in cases where there may be a legal dispute, there may be a problem before a court where there may be civil and other legal conflicts of another nature. All of a sudden, the Ombudsman comes in, I say, for example, as an arbitrator or as a special court of law. I don't know! You can see in the materials that have been distributed and on the agenda, we are looking at the Ombudsman's proposal. A moment ago, in the Commission report, the Ombudsman was called the importer of these changes and these rules. And I don't understand how it happens, how it happens, is an importer, as here an importer can be the Council of Ministers, can be a MP. Shouldn't all these changes go through a MP or a parliamentary group? Or should the Ombudsman have brought them into the government, which should have examined them accordingly, had some legal, legal expertise? Where acts are introduced here, a financial estimate shall be made, a report shall be made on the impact of the act in question. There's no such thing. The Ombudsman has decided to make these changes to his rules. And here there are many lawyers who clearly have the basic rule, when rules are made for the work of one institution, of one body, this change is made by another, who is either superior or evaluating the rules for the work of that body. Of course, you will tell me: what about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which the National Assembly accepts? Yeah, well, that's another thing, it's an act of a different order in relation to the Constitution of a different nature. There's nothing personal about me here, but these are all issues that are legal, which are institutional, that have accumulated over the years. We are making the Ombudsman a bender and master of relationships which are internationally legal and of international importance. In many of these questions I may not be answering correctly, my legal position is not correct, disprove me, until now no one has put these problems from this place or elsewhere. So what now? Press the button and accept the rule book of all these problems lightly? Imagine in what directions, what relations in civil law, international law, and any other aspect of what we will adopt in the Rules can affect. And should we not deepen these issues, on which the Constitutional Court should have long ago ruled on the text of art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman? I put all these questions, and I believe that in this Chamber that we are in, at the end of working time, it will be a very big mistake if, as we do very often, we vote, give the green light and say: let's accept these changes in the Rules that are being proposed to us, nothing will come out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u228	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Shopov, I understand a lot of the questions you're asking, and I think they're very clear. Why did the legislator once decide that the Ombudsman's Rules should be seen in the National Assembly, I was also interested in the transcripts, it is not clear. It is worth it, you have rightly put this question, to think about it. We have a legislative initiative. This is a question of the Law on the Ombudsman and not of these Rules. Hence my line: if we find the procedure wrong, it is legal and we need to change it there is not the point we are thinking about now. As for your concerns in substance, they are also legal. You, of course, have the right to dislike a provision or authority of the Ombudsman, but these powers we have given by law soon and now the Rules must comply with this law. Again, the legislator, that is, we, in previous Legislatures, have said that this is happening here. Your criticisms and questions are clear, but they are directed to the National Assembly, to each of the MPs, not to the importers at the point which is legally required to do so. Therefore, we must now support this text, as the Law so commands, but you are right that it is worth considering whether this is the best procedure. I do not think of any institution whose rules are to be made in the National Assembly except the National Assembly itself. Thank you. I think these are important questions, but it's not that point and maybe it's not the plenary place. Rather, you should take advantage of or take advantage of the legislative initiative and together with the Ombudsman and the institutions concerned to correct the procedure if we think it is inadequate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u229	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other lines? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Shopov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u230	I also hope that other colleagues will be concerned, especially fellow lawyers, because here it is about constitutional issues, things about the thin ratio, about the fine setting in the institutions and the acts with which these institutions are managed. If we now adopt these rules, we will deepen the problem again. The question is to invoke and comply with the Constitution, and the rules of the Constitution do so, how to call it an act, a draft act, because what is the rules, is not a law, is not a solution, I do not know what it is, for me it makes it unfit for voting and for adoption. And to justify ourselves by the fact that we have voted here a law, which is clearly what vices it suffers from, because I think that your statement has also led to the fact that this law, as it is, and to which the formally submitted draft decision refers, is to deepen the problem. We need to stop deepening the problem, to see the entire Bulgarian political class and the National Assembly, and to see how to correct these errors, which have been made since 2003 with the amendment of the Constitution, when this institution was favored, it was one of the conditions to move forward towards the European Union. You remember these things. I'm telling you again: I don't know how to adopt these rules. How are we going to vote, Madam President, are you going to put each of the texts to the substance or all of the anblocs? If you put them in an block, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u231	The Constitution says the Rules are adopted here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u232	Mr. Kirilov, you've made your decision too. Are you chairman of the Legal Committee or are you separate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u233	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Colleagues, do we have any other comments? If we don't have any further speeches, I'm going to put to the vote the decision on approval anbloc. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u234	Madam President, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, as you are obliged to answer the question of MP Shopov as to whether we are performing constitutionally appropriate actions. The truth is that in the Constitution itself it is enshrined that the National Assembly voted on these rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-20.u235	The Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure. That's right, Mr. Zarkov, you gave me a hint. Colleagues, we passed after 2:00. I put to the vote a decision approving the Appendix to the Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure and Procedure. Vote 112 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, the time for plenary is over. Tomorrow's regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
