ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we proceed with yesterday's point, I want to read you a few messages: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Family Aid Act for Children on 6 June 2018. Importers: Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The next communication concerns debate on questioning: The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev is prevented today from participating in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of paid annual leave in accordance with the requirements of art. 105, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be held in the presence of the Minister concerned. The absence of Minister Ananiev imposes the setting of a new deadline for discussions on the questions made to him, No 854-05-33, from 9 May 2018 by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Georgi Gokov on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Debates on that question shall be redirected to the next parliamentary control meeting. We continue with the point of yesterday: PROJECT OF A PROJECT ACCOMPANYING THE PROJECT FOR THE INVESITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF THE MACHINED BRIGAD AND THE AQUALIC PROJECT FOR THE EXPECTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF BATALION FIGHT GROUPS OF THE MECHANISM BRIGADA. Here you are, General Popov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I want clearance procedure for the commander of the Land Troops. Major General Mikhail Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 147 MPs: 141, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the general into the room. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Generals! Today we are continuing with a very important topic on which we must make the right decision, namely the modernization of the Bulgarian army. We are talking about two projects that have been talked about for a long time, but there is never a specific solution for a number of reasons. Unfortunately, speaking of the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, we must say that we have come to this situation where the armed forces are very difficult to carry out their constitutionally set tasks and that is why it is urgent to make such a decision. More than that. In the last four-five-six years, the strategic security environment has changed strongly and this requires the armed forces to have new capabilities to develop. The complex, which combines new weapons and equipment and the human factor in the armed forces, would give exactly this new model, new capabilities of the armed forces. We are here today to talk about modernization to show a national responsible attitude towards the army and the country, because national security concerns each and every one of us. While it is difficult to understand from the common man, security is everywhere, both individual and collective. Of course, this decision is not just about the country, the armed forces and the Bulgarian army, but it is also about our commitments to the European Union and NATO. All of this requires the non-alternative solution to adopt modernization projects. However, we must say that the projects so tabled have a number of weaknesses that we need to bear in mind. First of all, we need to mention the lack of enough specifics, requirements that are missing with regard to planes, the fighting machine and the special technique. This lack of specifics related to the armed forces raises doubts in terms of the right choice and of the defense capabilities that the Bulgarian Army must acquire. Next, it is important to mention, as a failure in the projects, that we are talking too generally, theoretically, about leasing, we are talking about good European practices. It is nice not only to point out these good European practices, but to say why they are good and how they relate to the Bulgarian conditions, what we can use them with and take the best of them. Of course, there is nowhere to talk about how maintenance is carried out after the expiry of the guarantee period. I'm giving you an example of the Spartans. Why am I talking about armaments? We have sad experience with cougars, with Spartans, which requires us to think deeper when we talk about these two projects. Of course, there's something else we need to keep in mind. We from BSP for Bulgaria have been talking for one year that the approach to the Bulgarian army, to the defence, should be different. A thorough, strategic review is needed. Stepping only on this basis, we will have the exact and clear state, we will know exactly what defence capabilities are needed, we will draw up a modernisation plan, and then a logical conclusion to this process will be the three modernization projects, two of which we are currently looking at. We have been talking about this for a very long time, but today is the time to show attitude and to have a national responsible attitude towards these important security and defence problems. That is why I would like to address all of you and show with your vote this national responsible attitude, thinking about the future not only of the Bulgarian Armed Forces and the Bulgarian Army, but also of a country as a whole. Because we from BSP for Bulgaria have repeatedly shown that we are politically consistent, always supporting modernization, protecting the people who are the main factor in the armed forces and not least have shown that we are nationally responsible, talking about such major security and defence problems. So I appeal to all of you, support the modernization projects! Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Veselin Mareshki, Vice-President Veselin, stands up to the Presidential Bank and applauds.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Please, Mr. Mareshki! [[Noise and lines.]] A line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Mareshki. So spontaneous, you inspired your reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Now I understand why Cornelia Nino moved out so soon and left the shame of this speech to pick Mr. Tsonkov because just yesterday or that day at bTV she inspired how they did not always agree with the President. Here, on the subject of the purchase of the aircraft BSP is categorically against because it considers it unnecessary luxury and unnecessary spending. The trembling in the voice of Mr. Tsonkov also shows the inconvenience with which he made this passionate speech. And the ridicule I saw in Mr. Hamid's eyes also shows the assessment of this pun in which you are in the last few days. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Out of complete denial of the projects...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u7	Mr. Hamid is not in the room, Mr. Mareshki. [[Laughter]] Maybe you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u8	I apologize. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter. National Representative Hamid Hamid enters the hall.]] I saw him outside, yeah. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u9	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u10	So it is really nice to know your priorities, because we will also want to desecrate the transcripts in the talks with the President, where the position of BSP was clearly exposed and it was not as we hear it today in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, my mood has increased sharply, even more enthusiastic than Mr. Mareshki's loud applause, for which I thank him. Obviously, the words do not correspond to the actions and, in fact, it supports modernisation, albeit unspokenly. I would like to clarify to Mr. Mareshki, who obviously has not listened carefully, that Mrs. Cornelia Ninova is also talking about the cost of defence, which should not exceed 2%, but should gently and gently increase, but this is not about the modernisation we are talking about, because we are not even reaching these 2 percent, Mr. Mareshki. I ask you: why should we oppose one system or another in Bulgaria? Security, health and education are equally important, but thirty years have not been spent on the Bulgarian army. It is now necessary, at this moment, to make the decision. Politicians owe the Bulgarian Army. I mean, modernization projects are also a very powerful tool for the Bulgarian economy through offset programs. And we will insist through industrial cooperation the money that is given for new aircraft, for new fighting machines and special equipment, for many of them to remain in Bulgaria for job opening, for creating new productions. Because, once again, I stress, the BSP for Bulgaria is thinking about the development, the future of Bulgaria, the young people, the future of national security and the Bulgarian armed forces. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mrs. Ninova, I'm assuming a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that since yesterday there has been speculation about BSP's position. So I'd like to make one thing clear. Mr. Mareshki knows it best because he attended all of the president's advisory councils where we discussed these topics. He knows it without deciphering the transcripts, but, of course, whoever wants to, let them unscramble. And then, and today, BSP says the following: "We are about the modernization of the Bulgarian army under the following conditions: Firstly, not to exceed 2% of gross domestic product. The projects presented to us by Mr. Karakachanov do not exceed 2% of the gross domestic product our first condition is fulfilled. Secondly, to engage companies from the Bulgarian defence industry and the Bulgarian economy along the lines of offset and industrial cooperation, similar to what Romania did. In the projects presented to us by Mr. Karakachanov, there are such commitments. Therefore, our second condition has already been met. That is why under two conditions set by the BSP for Bulgaria, we will support these projects. Please stop speculation! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Minister, Honourable Generals! I would like to express my personal satisfaction with the fact that yesterday and today in the Chamber are held extremely constructive and principled talks on a topic that is important not for the army, not for the armed forces... for Bulgaria as a country, for Bulgaria as a future. And here it should be clear that today, as we continue a process which I hope will soon end again here in the Assembly, we will give perspective for both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian army to develop in the next tens of years. I want to make a few things clear to my fellow Members, who are further away from the specifics of the military topic. If we vote laws here, if we change regulations, if we create new laws, they can be corrected by us. What we will take today as a decision to give the government a mandate to negotiate and to conclude contracts that will be finalised here in this meeting, we will no longer be able to correct the development of the Bulgarian armed forces in the next 30 years. This is a fact that must be made clear to everyone. And that is why, with the small exceptions we hear here in a slightly vaudeville nature, I am pleased with the discussion and now I will argue why we should give this chance to our armed forces to continue to develop in the direction that has been determined many years ago before it has been there and GERB. In response to colleagues who have a very contrary opinion, I would like to say that we from GERB, I hope that our colleagues from BSP, as well as our colleagues from the United patriots, are responsible for the future of our armed forces, because after 10 years, when the process of modernization of our army will end in these three major projects, and BSP, and GERB, and the Patriots will bear and continue to bear responsibility, and will be on this platform again colleagues who will give answers to why something else happened and why something else has not happened. And those who now say that it should not be, that it should not be, that it should not be, that it should be elsewhere that these funds should be directed, perhaps they will be in the written history of Bulgaria. Colleagues, two Projects are now approved, which are to a different extent prepared and represented by the Council of Ministers as documentation and philosophy in the National Assembly. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that we are criticising the Project for a new fighter fighter because it was very specific and almost predestined the things. On the other hand, we criticise the Marine War Machine Project because it was very framed and did not give the particulars enough to be able to prefer a manufacturer. And we get into a pretty messy situation, so in one case, let's say why not, and then we say why not? But the two things are different. Bulgaria is not able to participate in any form in the production and arming of a combat plane. But Bulgaria has experience, Bulgaria has good traditions, Bulgaria has a prepared working industry that can participate in the production and arming of the infantry war machine. The dignity of both projects is that in both cases parameters are set which allow the Bulgarian industry to participate in the maintenance, repair and repair of the plane and the infantry fighting machine. I, of this tribune, would also like to call on the Ministry of Defence in the face of the Minister, the Deputy Ministers, the political cabinet and the general, as well as the Council of Ministers in the shortest possible time to submit decisions to the National Assembly and to approve the PIR for a new ship of our naval forces. [[Applause by National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] This is essential because we also know the decisions of the Advisory Council with the President, as well as the decisions of the Security Council, which advises the Prime Minister that this is a set that must go in full. We shouldn't worry about the fact that it's not the three of them now, because in a matter of time the difference of several months is not fatal, but I personally hope this happens before our summer vacation. With regard to the financial framework, which is mainly criticised, I would like to tell you, colleagues, that when GERB 10 years ago began to participate and manage our country, the gross domestic product was somewhere in the order of 60 lv. It's over 90 a year today. I hope that we will vote on a budget that will be in the order of 100 billion. And in the final process of modernization of our army, it will exceed 180 billion. lv. And if we make a quick bill, it will prove that the expenditure on an annual basis is less than half of this gross domestic product, so there will be no burden, there will be no reason for the other activities financed by the budget to be delayed or ignored. One more thing. What we are all talking about, and I am grateful to our colleagues from the BSP who spoke before me, is that we, as well as them, as well as the United patriots, hold the Bulgarian economy in our maximum capacity to participate in the production, arming, repair and maintenance of this equipment, including our naval forces. Thus, the money that we are now voting on will not be expenditure, they will be an investment that will bring revenue. In practice, if we manage to make the treaties so that we can achieve the best practices, including the former Central and Eastern European countries, at the end of the process, the money that we are now investing will be restored to the Bulgarian economy. It's a fact. Why do we need 150 fighting machines, of which 90 real combat machines, and the rest of the maintenance equipment? Because these are the parameters set in the concept of development of the three battalion groups. That's the read. Keep in mind that military science is pure mathematics. On the other hand, why aren't we offered a specific for the second stage? There are colleagues who disagree with me now, but let them hear me too. Because, colleagues, after 6 years, when the second stage will start for the next three battle groups, we here and no one in the Ministry of Defense can guess what technology options will be to bet on both war machines and ships as well as aircraft. Next thing you know, why do we need eight plus eight planes? In order to have combat-ready pilots in NATO regulations and standards, a combat pilot must have a nude, he must fly at least 100 hours per year. In order to maintain a combat duty in the air, the so-called air policy, we must have a minimum of 30 prepared pilots. That means 3,000 hours a year to keep the pilots up. If we make an account, it's 760 shifts a year, which means that in order to maintain our resources in the coming years, we have to have a minimum of 16 to 20 planes. That no one attacked us, didn't attack us, because he knows that here he will find prepared and ready for action, naval forces, air force and ground troops. In the report, which we will be looking at in a few minutes, we will talk about this topic and, although with difficulty, we will note that the Bulgarian army, the Bulgarian armed forces are able to fulfil their constitutional obligations to maintain the territorial integrity, sovereignty and safety of our citizens. Colleagues, thank you all for supporting us. Those who will not help us to weigh on their consciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Any lines to Mr. Toshev's statement? There's a line, Mr. Mareshki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Toshev! Only the Bulgarian people decide which party to be represented in parliament. In my case, I think there is no doubt that the Bulgarian people have chosen me because in an attempt to vex us you say that I have done so many things that even on my back an entire parliamentary group has entered parliament. In your case, the party leaders, not the Bulgarian people, have decided that you will be part of the Bulgarian Parliament and I will advise you to do your best so that in the next Parliament you can be re-arranged in a elective place. But basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u19	The line to the point, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u20	Yes, in essence, my line is this: in history you can enter as our great heroes, I will give an example with just one of our greatest heroes, with our saint Vasil Levski. But you can also come in as King Krustö. The story remembers both Vasil Levski and Pop Krastyo. And if you can't do something so good for your nation to be remembered as Vasil Levski, at least try not to do so that they remember you as pop Krustyo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Another line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u22	I'm a little surprised what that line was, but I'm gonna do a douche. Thanks to Vidin's voters, I am four mandates in this Parliament. How long will I be, they will still decide and, of course, the leadership of our party. However, regarding Pop Krastyo, let us not talk here, perhaps they will become colleagues who are more prepared on the subject, because no one has proved that Pop Krastyo has betrayed Vasil Levski, and this is another topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u23	On the subject, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u24	Regarding what you should be commenting on, I do not think that this is about the separation of pensions, education, national security, health care, because these are things that the state is responsible for. In the case of ruling party GERB and as the main opposition force BSP, we are responsible for the Republic of Bulgaria and all its policies. Thanks to the DPS, which will support us because they are not in this Parliament for the first time. I hope they won't be the last, and they certainly won't be the last. [[DPS lines.]] So we cannot divide the priorities of the state by sectors for today, for tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow. I do not think that there is a coliseum between what we are now deciding on the development of the Bulgarian Army and what we have undertaken as a joint policy with the United Patriarchs and for the pensioners, both for health care and for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Any other speeches? Here you go. Mr. Ibryamov, Mrs. Axiev was before you. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] Guys, be quiet! [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u26	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Bulgarian citizens, in our meetings with you around the country you turn to us and ask us all the time: Why do we work our whole life and pay our pension benefits, and finally we have small pensions? Today we can answer this question: there will be no pensions, there will be no working hospitals, there will be no adequate education for our children, because with your money you have to buy Karakachanov's planes with one signature. [[Radio and lines on the right.]] We at Volja.We believe that while people live poorly, the priorities of the state should be aimed at improving the living conditions of the citizens. In your opinion, which army can be stopped by three Russian, Turkish or which planes? In fact, the main threat in modern society is not our neighbours with whom we have good relations, but the growing terrorism, which cannot be stopped by ships, tanks and aircraft. We need to make sure that people are literate, that they are not misled by foreign ideologies and that more funds are directed towards the Ministry of Interior and the special forces. Did you know that in these institutions people actually rely on handouts of a bus to fuel them? They are the ones who will protect us in a possible conflict. We must raise the salaries and the military, create conditions for them so that they feel proud and satisfied that they are part of the Bulgarian army, attract more and more new personnel, not lack of them. As someone who has experience in business, I know that if a sum of money is invested in the economy, it is capitalized and multiplied. And if it gets into expensive airplanes, it's going to cost us so much more, and no one actually answers the question of what the maintenance costs will be for this technique. If I may, I would like to say a Bulgarian proverb: Think of the future of our children! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Admiral Manushev, come in for a line. [[From the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria...................... the National Representative Axieva is invited to sit in the front row with them. Radiation, noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll make a line for Miss Alexova when I say a parable. There was a kingdom that fought constantly, fought, fought, and decided: "Enough with these wars, let us melt the swords, let us make a rally, let us make instruments to dig the earth, and there will be more to eat. One year they enjoyed prosperity. The second year, they kept doing it, but they did it for those who didn't melt their swords. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u29	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. Second line, please, Mr. Angelov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My line is about the sayings you used. It's not called cross, it's called tumbak, isn't it, if you don't know?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u31	In Bulgarian, in Bulgarian!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u32	But since you've decided to bring a sense of humor into your speech, we welcome it, so I'm going to allow myself to replicate you with a joke I just heard. Why was Volja party against the purchase of airplanes? Because Mr. Mareshki was refused to put in a gas station for Graf Ignatevo to load planes. [[Shouting: "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u33	In games and pranks passes today. Here's a third line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Axieva, please don't be so diplomatic. Call things by their real names. You don't have to say "cross," really use "tumbak." [[Unique applauses from the "Volja", lines between the MP Plamen Hristov and the MPs from the DPS.]] Will there be a hole, Mrs. Axieva?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u35	Colleagues, I don't mind telling jokes here, but you obviously don't understand the seriousness of this issue. The real problem facing the Bulgarian society is precisely poverty. Until we deal with this problem, I think everything else is in the background. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm glad he has a high mood, and there must be a reason. Today is Friday, we are looking at an important project and to bring the debate back to the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u39	Modernization, colleagues, of the armed forces should be of a permanent cyclic nature. As the most important feature of this must be its continuity in order to have the necessary balance between the needs of the strategic security environment, the need to acquire new defence capabilities and the necessary public resources to be set aside. Before I get into the essence of the project, I would like to stress that the DPS will support the modernisation of the armed forces and the defence of Bulgaria, and not as my colleague Toshev expressed "GERB." Because we were consistent in our position. Even when the Temporary Committee of Inquiry was established, to monitor whether there were any violations, we found that there were violations, so there was a restart of this project. So it is a little incorrect for Mr. Toshev to say that we support GERB in this regard. Here I would especially like to congratulate the Chief of Defense, General Botsev, because the team has done its best and paid special attention to the recommendations that the Temporary Committee of inquiry addressed to this team, which has currently created this project and we are looking at it today. However, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, especially in the second decade of the new millennium, and in the last few years this process has been downgraded and seriously violated, which has led to the inability to acquire new defence capabilities, technological backwardness and outdated weapons and fighting equipment. Overcoming these adverse consequences and lag behind in implementing the projects of modernization of the armed forces have led to the need to carry out serious, I would even say shocking, defence investments, as is the current project for this modernisation. Naturally, this would lead to an enormous disturbance in the balance of distribution of public funds and public resources between defence and other public sectors. The current investment project is yet another attempt to restart the modernization of the army, with all these attempts in recent years ending with failure without using a stronger word. We remember well when the real implementation of this project began in the distant 2010 period, perhaps up to a period when the ruling members in the last term, I mean GERB, entrusted the management in the face of their coalition partner and saw what led to serious violations which subsequently imposed the establishment of this interim committee of inquiry last year. But we do understand that these lessons are now fulfilled and taken into account and we already have a duly presented project with the relevant requirements that I have just laid out. The project's reasons indicate that the meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security on 30 May 2017 reached a political consensus on the accelerated implementation of the projects for modernization of the armed forces and on the simultaneous implementation of the main investment projects, namely the acquisition of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of the mechanized brigade and the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. It is worth noting that these main investment projects are not two, as colleagues before me mentioned, but three. In a very convenient way, it is overlooked to note that they are not ready with the Project for the acquisition of two multifunctional modular ships for our Navy. This is a huge minus for the office's work, as a more serious delay in the project could jeopardize our maritime sovereignty. Also, the state, technological backwardness and outdated weapons and combat equipment of the Air Force and the Ground Forces would not justify in the eyes of society and part of the political class the spending of such serious funds. But it's necessary. We know what funds are at stake and I congratulate, including the Minister of Finance, who has been favorable and has given additional funds and the cost itself has been raised by 1 billion. Five hundred thousand. lv. at 1 billion. $800,000. lv. It should be noted that the financial resources envisaged for the implementation of the two projects represent a serious resource for our country, as I noted. But we really need to be aware that they are not enough to buy the latest weapons and equipment and are a consensus option in terms of our financial capabilities, the quality and the number of fighting equipment and weapons to be acquired. In this respect, it is essential to find the optimal balance to meet the minimum basic requirements from which it must not give way, and this can only take place in the context of full transparency and through the prism of military expertise, and any uncontrolled lobbyist intervention would vitiate this process. Perhaps the most important part of the project itself is the four main aspects to be taken into account in the subsequent analysis, evaluation, choice of option and subsequent implementation of the project. I'll point them out very briefly. The strategic aspect is very important in terms of the level of compliance that each of the potential options for realization must be responsible for the implementation of the country's foreign and defence policy priorities. The military aspect. Unfortunately, minimum basic requirements are defined for the effective implementation of the necessary defence capabilities. Perhaps the two most important aspects are precisely the economic and industrial aspects, which in the previous project were largely missed. Here again, I would like to thank the team Mr. General Botsev for setting these two main aspects, because it was the Commission who insisted that attention should be paid to them. Namely, the economic aspect is intended to take into account the economic efficiency in acquiring and subsequent exploitation and maintenance of platforms. The industrial aspect. The need for the Bulgarian defence industry to be part of the realization of these two investment projects is also reported. The planning and implementation of the two military modernisation projects will be implemented in a very long time period and in this combination of serious financial resources, because I must say, naturally, that a lot of financial resources will be allocated annually, all leading to a risk period. But all this depends on how the government will approach the relevant imported projects to purchase these techniques. The Army Modernization Project presents major risks in this process, but it is worth noting that there is always uncertainty and danger of the emergence of new underwater stones. In fact, the biggest risk that exists in these two projects is not to be defined because it is directly linked to the political will of the government regarding its implementation. Yes, the modernization of the army also has another alternative to the outsourcing of certain defence activities to NATO Member States. In this regard, adequate information to the public about the need to modernise and reach a public consensus on the parameters of its implementation is essential and this is the debt of the entire political class. Finally, I repeat: we will support the submitted project and hope to get acquainted with the next step as soon as possible, namely the already received offers from the countries and companies concerned, which will be submitted for the purchase of the fighting equipment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. [[Applause from DPS.]] Are there lines? I can't see. Any lines or other statements? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable generals! It was nice to hear how we are all unanimous and especially the statements of our colleagues from BSP, because they always claimed that they were for modernization of the Bulgarian Army that they have always supported this line. We heard it like a red thread! However, I would like to take the tape back a little bit so that we can draw some conclusions. I'll talk to the facts again. When they were operating in the Stanishev government, no fighter aircraft was bought, no armored war machine was bought, but a machine was bought for use. You remember this case. Mr. Deputy Minister, where's that tin machine? What's he doing right now? Is it working? I ask because it was given what, 8.5 million. The dollar? So when they're in charge, they show their attitude towards the modernization of the army. Let's look at the project to buy a new multi-purpose fighter. In 2008, we have already entered into a serious financial crisis. At the time, it was not logical for the Bulgarian government to allocate huge funds for re-arming. Firstly, we would not be understood by the people, we would not be understood by the Bulgarian people, we would not be understood by both our neighbours and NATO partners. By the way, during the same period throughout the European Union, defence expenditure has decreased. However, if you claim that it had to be done, you are thinking about some other times, I am talking about the 20th century, when through the re-arming and development of the armed forces a country has come out of the crisis, but with horrific consequences, I hope you do not have that in mind. Prime Minister Borisov's government at the time, however, thought stately. In 2010, the development for the purchase of a new multi-purpose fighter began. I'm saying this because it's state-of-the-art thinking. As of 2013 and thanks to the management, management, government and political leadership of the Ministry of Defence according to the March 2013 report of the team leader General Radev, the project is near completion. This is also recognized by the Minister of Defence, recognized by the Minister of Defence at the time Mr. Angel Naydenov. Moreover, Minister Angel Naydenov at this time sets out tasks that are feasible and according to him by the end of 2013. The project must be implemented, submitted for consideration. Unfortunately, the project is not continuing. These two examples are enough to show us that when he is in the government, BSP does not deal with a proper understanding of the development of the combat capabilities of the Bulgarian Army. Naturally, when they are in opposition, they vote against. For reference the ratio to the same Project or the Navy Modernization Project, then are the opposite. Perhaps they would be against it now, but I welcome them for the step they are taking right now. We have a new development in the government of Prime Minister Borisov 2. Then with great effort the team starts working, unfortunately, but the team is placed in some strange, I would say, not quite good working conditions thanks to the environment, thanks to the environment in which it is working. It is also acknowledged by the prime minister of the caretaker government Ognian Gerdjikov that he worked under instructions from the President. However, Minister of State Gerdjikov is a sufficiently experienced lawyer and has his own moral views, and does not allow the Council of Ministers to make a decision that would in some way undermine morality and, perhaps, the law somewhat. He deserves to be admired in this regard. The state of this project led to the establishment of a Temporary Commission. I will not dwell on her work, just to point out that the Temporary Commission has brought the project back into some acceptable moral and fair norms within other frameworks in which it is being worked. Indicatorally, in what conditions the team has worked is that now the same team presents us with an updated project which can now be supported without any doubt that something can be distorted. The comments specifically to it are rather non-essential, they do not affect at the time for the implementation of the project. From what we have said so far, we can draw several groups of conclusions. One of them is that when BSP rules, its interests as a ruling party do not coincide with the interests of the Bulgarian Army and, I would say, the interests of Bulgaria for the development of the armed forces and of the Bulgarian Army in particular the famous iron machine. When in opposition, BSP seeks to hinder the development of projects that would lead to the development of the armed forces and new abilities of the Bulgarian Army, and based on...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u42	That's not true. Can we please not provoke?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u43	Colleague, I understand you're excited, but before we get together, you're saying we have to separate?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u44	Stop talking against BSP, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u45	Based on the conclusions drawn, what can we say? The failure of these interests significantly reduces the combat potential, creates mistrust of Bulgaria as an ally... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u46	Please don't call from the hall, you have the opportunity to reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u47	Mr. Zablyanov, please, I say my thoughts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u48	Don't come in here and talk to the gym, Mr. Christov. Continue your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u49	... And it strengthens, of course, the negative attitude of the Bulgarian citizens towards the institutions and, above all, towards the structures that are called to build and protect security. This leads, of course, to a strong reduction in the motivation of the servicemen. The Bulgarian Army has already gained considerable experience in managing major defence projects. The team working on the projects is national, intellectual capital, however, the teams working on such projects, from the very nature of the army as an institution of strong subordination, are susceptible to external influence and to suggestion. We therefore believe that the leadership of the Ministry of Defence should not allow deviation from the set parameters, the leadership of the Ministry of Defence should not allow external influences and other institutions that are perhaps a little bit sideways in order not to influence the team working on the projects. Perhaps a good recommendation and one expectation on our part is that when the tenders are submitted after the work of the Interdepartmental Commission, the tenders will not be ranked in the first, second or third place and the tenders will be presented with advantages and disadvantages. Because the ranking of an offer in the first place makes it possible to speculate, and we already had one in the previous case, it gives us the opportunity to try in some way to influence or prejudge: Here, this is the first place and that is why our expectations are in this direction. Honourable colleagues, this project is neither GERB nor the United Patriarchs. This is a project of the Bulgarian Army, it is a project of Bulgaria, if you will. I thank you for this change in your position and it is indeed responsible. I hope that this is the beginning of a time when you and I will be able to vote together and regardless of the disputes we have at some points to support precisely such projects for now within the framework of the Bulgarian Army and why not on other projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you are, General Milev, then Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Generals! Dear Mr. Hristov, when you were buying this machine, where were we with you then? Let us trust the Bulgarian generals more because they rule the Bulgarian Army. I do not believe that a general can succumb to political pressure, political suggestion, first of all, at least I did not, and then it was the year 2008 that we certified this brigade in Karlovo, which we are currently talking about, and the whole project is about it. Even then, I am also being taken care of by Graph Ignatevo. Here things need to be a little more specific and for each project, doubts can be raised about any procedure. I am not convinced, as I said this morning, in the decisions of the Temporary Commission, and until now perhaps this project would have been carried out, and not to go back again to deciding what plane we would choose. Each procedure is an attack and we can always go back. I said: there must be political will to implement these projects! If we don't, we'll talk about what's happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u52	Thank you, General Milev. Mr. Mareshki and then Mr. Zablyanov. You're in the way, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, I would like to ask you to use your right as a duplicate and answer my question: did I correctly understand from your exposé that President Radev, at the time when he was chief of the caretaker government, was putting pressure on me? You have facts, perhaps data, doubts, or I don't know what, that he was putting pressure on the caretaker government to make a specific decision about the purchase of a particular plane without going through clearly in legal order? In practice, as you said, apart from immoral, it could be, if it is true, and against the law. Therefore, I would ask you to make a little more clarity on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Third line? I can't see, guys. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! General Milev, in fact, when the machine was bought, you and I fought for the certification of the 61st mechanized brigade, and successfully, and we cannot be held responsible neither you nor I nor anyone from here standing generals for the purchase of the machine. This machine was just an example, it's not the typical example. If you want, we can go into details. Then read the two reports of the generals seconded to the United States on this occasion. That's what I'm done with. To Mr. Mareshki's question. Mr. Mareshki, I have nowhere used the name of General Radev as an influence on the team, but only in the context of the fact that Prime Minister Gerdjikov said that he has consulted the President on the implementation of the project, which has already been completed. As far as the conclusions are concerned, the Interim Commission, and this can confirm all those working in the Temporary Commission, worked openly, with us always filled with representatives of the media, so the conclusions she was making were clear, clean from the very beginning. It is also a fact that they were not challenged here in plenary, essentially and were accepted in substance. Let us not use the presidential name in vain today, but bear in mind the work of this Temporary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Procedure in the manner of conduct, then Associate Professor Mihov, then Mr. Zablyanov for speech. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u57	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. I know it is awkward to make a comment by a colleague from the National Assembly's leadership, but it is nice when we come out here and talk, to remind the topic we have, what we have gathered here. The main task of our discussions today is to see and argue about the investment cost projects, what are the weaknesses. And when someone does not like our party's position, that we are giving you a hand, and although these projects are meatballs, we will vote for them only because we want national security and consensus on these issues. Someone coming out here and practicing the history of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the positions, forgetting that their government cut 40% of the defence budget,...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u58	To me, Mr. Ermenkov, the remark is to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u59	... It is your duty, Madam President, to bring order. Because we are gathered here today to solve issues of national security something that concerns the future of Bulgaria, costs of billions and you cannot stand by when someone here is playing and making fun of this issue. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. I'm not worried about making remarks, and I think you're convinced of that. Mr. Hristov's statement was essentially, there was a chronology, and I have no reason to interrupt it. You have the opportunity to make lines of his speech, so we continue with the speeches. Colleagues, our guests are students from Blagoevgrad district, awarded in the contest of MEP Asim Ademov and accompanied by residents of the municipality of Garmen. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The last few days here and the media are talking about spending will damage the poor, the socially weak, the pensioners, talk about Karakachanov's toys, about Karakachanov's planes and so on. I must say something very important: the Ministry of Defence under the leadership of Mr. Karakachanov, together with the leadership of the armed forces, the types of armed forces have prepared and done huge work for this year. This is an obligation to be said in order to take into account the work of officers and generals, experts and experts in the Ministry of Defence and headquarters. So I'm going to argue with three things. In 11 months, these people rebooted the Project for a new battle plane, and today we're watching it. In less than nine months, they rebooted the Navy Modernization Project and, at expert level, it was completed with its adoption into the Defence Council. In less than a year, they pulled the Land Troops Modernization Project out of nowhere, and today we're watching it. The opposition's speeches have said many things about the good introductions to these projects about the qualities of these projects, about the industrial cooperation, that the fighting machine will not be bought, but will buy licenses and technologies and will be assembled here in Bulgaria. That must be said in order to account for the work of all specialists, of all officers, of all generals. And it is very good that some, talking about guns somewhere, and singing the song of the sirens, are doing it here in this room, in front of these generals, in front of all Bulgarian officers and all Bulgarian citizens, to make it clear who continues to suggest to us that we should not have an army, that we should not have armed forces, that Europe and NATO will protect us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u62	Get it over with, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u63	I'm done!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u64	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihov, I don't know what the Ministry has done under the leadership of Mr. Karakachanov, but shortly before he became Minister of this Ministry, he said we have no money for these projects and it's good for the United States to give us a squadron, a whole squadron. At the same time, your colleague, who is sitting next to you right now, Mr. Veselinov, will quote it in my article shortly, says that these projects are an unnecessary luxury. And how today? What's changed since then? I'll tell you: the only thing that has changed since then is that then Karakachanov wasn't holding a pen, and now he's in a hurry to make this deal, because after it he'll probably never hold a pen again. Go back a little bit in history and remember what you said a year ago so we don't all get ridiculous in front of the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? Here's your coat, Professor Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] There will be a personal explanation with Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u67	Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Honorable Mr. Mareshki, a temporary MP with down immunity and criminal charges. I'll read you what he said...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u68	Please, Mr. Mihov, get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u69	I didn't say anything. I'm saying something that's real. Get to the point. Mr. Karakachanov said: Our campaign is to move all three projects simultaneously in November 2017. In the program of the party Volja. What is written in your program and why you change your messages for 24 hours, I cannot answer this question, but that IMRO, IMRO, IMRO, IMRO and Mr. Karakachanov have always been for a strong army, for a strong Bulgarian nation, to supply the army with modern fighting means is a truth that should not be proved. What did you read? What have you seen? What are you quoting from memory, this is your question. To conclude, I would like to remind you of a maxim: the birds are not worn on a bare cross. The screams are floating in some silaroids, and IMRO's silaly has never been left empty. Thank you. [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u70	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement. I missed you, Mr. Veselinov, for a personal explanation and then Mr. Zablyanov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u71	Mrs President, the chairman of the statistically inconspicuous party, Volja, repeatedly quoted my speeches and referred to them, defending his thesis, which is harmful, of course, for the national interest. Of course, this he does as the devil reads the gospel. The statements he quoted are in the context of the 2017 budget debate, if memory serves me correctly, when, defending the thesis that the fleet must first modernise its current ships and then move on to buying new ones, we proposed reducing the funds in the current year in order to increase the pensions of Bulgarian citizens. We have not in principle contested the purchase of new frigates, on the contrary, in the current format of the Ministry of Defence is being worked on exactly this scheme. In this regard, we continue to show a sequence that Mr. Mareshki lacks in action. He was from some liberal party, two or three times changing the party, the brand is now a Volja. The day after can be a ballet school or something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u72	Please, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u73	The point is that what, like these today, should be remembered tomorrow. We at least remember what we said yesterday, what we said the other day, because we have always been guided by the same principles and the development of the armed forces, the protection of national sovereignty has always been the basis of all the parties of the United Patriarchs, even when the United Patriarchs did not exist as a coalition. Therefore, we will continue to represent the Bulgarian citizens in this Parliament, and probably after some other year people will wonder who Mr Mareshki really was.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u74	Please don't engage in personal attacks! Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u75	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It seems to me that in one such discussion, reason should somehow be present, apart from political assessments and hasty conclusions about one position or another. First of all, the issue of responsibility for the current state of the Bulgarian Army. There is no doubt that this is a common political responsibility of the ruling majorities in the last.. I will not say 25 years, but from the time Bulgaria became a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. I suppose you all remember, even those not related to the topic of the army, that Bulgaria, in order to become a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, adopted a Reform Plan of the Army and carried out a series of actions in this direction. The number of the army, the armed forces, the structure, the construction, the command staff was specified. The Bulgarian army thus entered the North Atlantic Alliance. For me, therefore, the main question that must now be raised is why, as a result of this plan, which was adopted then, and Bulgaria entered the North Atlantic Pact on the basis of the Plan for the Accession of the Army and the State to it, we are discussing this issue today? That's the most important topic. Why, after Bulgaria entered and made a number of commitments within the pact, including military-technical, for building a command, capacity, officer's staff and all this military education structure, were restructuring military schools, why are we after all this today dealing with this issue? Because all plans are accepted on paper. That's the answer. All plans are accepted on paper! Because we've come from one union to another in the same way for years. This is a political defect of Bulgarian government. Political defect! Because we never, by accepting a single document, feel that we have to do it or that we will do it in any way, as long as there are any formal results to be taken into account. It's the actual defect. I can't agree with the speeches here before that about some party responsibility, Stanishev's government and so on. All governments, including all three of Mr. Borisov, are always in this mind and function in the same way. Why are we facing the need for military re-arming projects today? Because the international environment changed and said in the language of the Bulgarian people:.. because it got under our feet.. because until a few years ago we lived carefree; because in the Atlantic values there was harmony and everyone agreed with the existing international order. But today, apparently, international order is changing, and that's why we, by old custom, went back to campaigning to solve the army's questions. First of all, there were two projects without the Land Forces. You remember the debate in this room. The main reason BSP to vote against the projects were prepared two projects for the Air Force and the Navy, without a project for the Land Forces. Then we had a meeting, made our position clear and explained why the BSP voted against. If anyone has missed this moment, return to the minutes of the National Assembly, if he wasn't here at the time, and make his point clear. The next question, the Bulgarian Socialist Party, has always had a consistent and clear attitude towards the Bulgarian Army, which is the main force guaranteeing the Bulgarian national residual sovereignty, to call it the main power. So any discussion in this topic should not be allowed. For the condition of the two projects they bear the same shortcomings as the projects previously carried out, especially in the current proven corruption environment of the Bulgarian government. What difference do we have here? All the estimates of the state of corruption in Bulgaria are absolutely identical to external and internal sources. In such an environment, re-arming the army is disastrous. This means the leakage of funds, uncontrollable commissions and failure of projects is our assessment, and this is the main danger to the two projects. And just because BSP has declared a political position does not mean that the BSP will stand up uncritically to watch the Ministry of Defense exercise on these projects, some industrial collaborations and some other contraptions. Weapons manufacturers in the world are clear. These are political treaties, they are concluded with a number of other considerations.. are not military-technical cooperations, so let us not be fooled about what is going on as the National Assembly. Yes, the Bulgarian army has been brought here. Yes, we must ensure the military's fighting ability, but what you are proposing like these projects is premature again, it is like the NATO Accession Plan with all the defects they contain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Replies to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? Here's a line for you, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zablyanov, from your last words, I've decided to make a line about the hastyness of these projects. Strategic reviews were made several times before 2000. In 2004 I told you that a really strategic review was made there described how our army was modernised by 2010, and some of the things started. Then the government changed in 2005 came a new one. For the Air Force started, but stopped, the entire procedure for four Corvettes was completed for the Navy, but then qualified, did not win it, a French firm for GoWIND Corvettes. Do you know how much it was then? The four ships were 770 million. Now for two ships the difference in six, seven years is almost a billion. So if we wait any longer, everything in a few years will become twice as expensive. We have to do this! It's the same for airplanes. In 2012, General Radev then, I was on this project control board, reported 450 or 480 million. $8 for 8 planes F 16. You said it was the best time then, and I'm sure it was. I don't doubt it at all. But it was 480 million, and in six or seven years, now it's almost 2 billion. So we don't have time to delay. We have to do this! It must make this effort and political leadership, both parliament and the Bulgarian people! The army needs to be upgraded! I'm glad we're on the same page, except for Mr. Mareshki, that we have to do this thing. We have to do this because we've fallen behind indefinitely. We owe it to the Bulgarian Army, to the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian officers and soldiers. We owe it, we have to do it! We need this effort, no matter how much it costs, to make it an hour sooner, because in time it will cost us even more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u78	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Reply from the hall: "Procedure. "]] There'll be procedure after that. Please, let's finish our procedure and the other one later.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Manushev! The escalation of prices in the world economy does not only apply to the military industry. Now we don't have to teach each other elementary things. If you're talking about the Corvettes, when it comes to looking at the gross domestic product of Bulgaria then let's see it now. Put those 4 billion that someone stole from KTB, and you'll see another reality. In other words, the prices of a group of goods on the world market are always relevant, so this cannot be an argument. The second thing I want to say, which, I think, was misunderstood. We have reservations about the government's capacity to implement both projects. These are our reserves because of the corruption environment and because for political reasons you have destroyed a project to re-arm the Air Force at the stage of the Air Force finished. You destroyed it for political reasons, setting up a committee on party considerations in the National Assembly, it does not matter here how Mr. Tsvetanov smiles in the front row. You destroyed a project on party-political reasons. So this is not a Bulgarian re-arming project. These are GERB and IMRO projects with which they believe they can play some grip and pretend to be nationally responsible. I'm sorry, but the game is so transparent, there's no more! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u80	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Will there be any other speeches? Personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov. Then Mr. Kirilov's procedure. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I would like to thank the forty-fourth Parliament for the Committee of Research. And your reproach that exactly what is now being done creates a corrupt environment, I can tell you that what they were trying to do from the office, under the expert leadership of President Radev, was created at that time the corrupt environment was created. Read the Commission's report on page 20, the last paragraphs, and you will see what professors write saying about the way you manipulated and attempted to discredit one of the participants and not to admit it. What could be better than this, Mr. Zablyanov, when we create an environment in which there will be more opportunity for participation and for talks that the Bulgarian government needs to hold? Because in the correspondence that was carried out in this period, March, there is a letter that comes from a potential buyer and participant in this process. Then do you know what people wrote under the obvious leadership of someone in the government during the office? Do you know what that means? This means that: we do not care about this because we have made a political decision on how to proceed and what to decide. [[Noise and lines.]] Now what is being proposed and what is being obtained political consensus and your consent to support this investment spending of the state, here I would like to congratulate both BSP and DPS, and GERB, and the United Patriarchs and, of course, we must also respect the different opinion expressed by the Political Party Volja. But what we will achieve today as a consensus, let us give it a move. Each of us has the opportunity to sit behind this transparency and behind the procedures that will be made. But Bulgaria is part of the Euro-Atlantic Pact and Bulgaria will remain as a member state of NATO and the European Union, Mr. Zablyanov, and not as you might wish. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. First, Mr. Kirilov's procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honorable Generals! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time of the plenary of this sitting until the debates are exhausted, including voting on item eight of the agenda: Why? Because the debate is obviously a busy one. We need plenary time to finish it, however, with a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I will first put Mr. Kirilov's proposal to the vote. Vote 141 MPs: 121, against 8, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zarkov, please come in the manner of conduct. [[Reply.]] And you in the manner of conduct? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u85	Madam President, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, because you have allowed Mr. Tsvetanov to abuse the procedure of personal explanation. This Rules of Procedure shall be used when a person is mentioned by name and affected. Mr. Zablyanov said Mr. Tsvetanov was laughing in the front row. He felt affected, but essentially in his personal explanation was made a statement containing our long-known baseless accusations against the President of the Republic. I ask that if you really are the President of the National Assembly, first among equals, you take the time during which Mr. Tsvetanov spoke, from the speaking time of the parliamentary group of GERB, because it was clear to everyone that this was a statement and not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u86	Mr. Tsvetanov was personally affected and he spoke essentially the way he was affected. Mr. Zablyanov's statement was also harsh enough, and I think [[noise and lines]] The way Mr. Tsvetanov spoke was adequate. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] I'm not gonna pass the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is clear that Mr. Tsvetanov does not speak as an affected person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u88	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u89	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u90	It's the way it is, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u91	To me, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u92	I believe that Ms. Karayancheva should have taken Mr. Tsvetanov's word and offered him another procedure under our Rules in which he will develop his valuable and priceless opinions on the Strategy for the Development of the Armed Forces. On top of that, the insult in him was so deep that he turned to me three times, defending his own position. I'm asking you to be precise. Mr. Tsvetanov, I assume he has no claim to be sinless, and he makes mistakes in his everyday life, and when he stands up from this stands, too. Follow the Rules of Procedure, it is written for your parliamentary group. You abuse it often. To set an example and to inspire us with regard to the rightness of your decisions, be such an example. Not to rely on double and triple standards when you apply the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki had a statement before you, then, Mr. Velkov, I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! For lack of time I will be as short as possible and I will say that we are absolutely categorically against this Project because we appreciate it as the biggest robbery of all time, condemning future generations of poverty, of walking holes, of lack of medicines, of lack of security and health in small settlements. Since we will be accused of lack of memory, I will not speak on my own behalf, but I will quote excerpts from a commentary by "Deutsche Welle" as of May 2017: "There is no chance that almost none of their................................... are going to happen.......................................... So they voted 318 thousand. 513 Bulgarian citizens will prove to be the most insolently deceived voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u95	On the subject, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u96	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u97	Please don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u98	Because I only had one minute, she ran out every minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u99	It's gone now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u100	...I'm going on a statement on the subject. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u102	We have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u103	Make a statement on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u104	Declaration on behalf of the group. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] It won't be about that, we've learned our lesson.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u105	Just don't let it be about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u106	No, it's not going to be on this subject. It's going to be on the frigates. We don't have frigates to buy right now, do we? [[Laughter]] We don't have frigates to buy right now. I've read my agenda. Thank you. I go on: "So those who voted for them 318 thousand. 513 Bulgarian citizens for the United Patriarchs are the most insidiously deceived voters. They must be given what they deserve. The sting of such a stroke is really not visible every day. Like any political power, the Coalition is presenting its commitments before the elections. There would have been lower VAT for drugs, food and textbooks. There would have been a moratorium on increasing electricity prices. There would have been an object of Patriotism. There would be a fight against speculation. We wouldn't have any refugees. But none of these promises are included in the programme priorities of the third government. There is no other such case in the close history of Bulgaria. The smaller coalition partner has always been accused of making a lot of compromises with his election promises, but this kind of amnesia hasn't happened. However, I will draw attention to the strange change in positions on the subject whether frigates should be purchased or not to purchase frigates [[crowd cheering and chirping]] for the Bulgarian Navy, which is not the topic of today's debate in the position of BSP and Cornelia Ninova. On June 5 in the show on bTV to Tsvetanka Rizova she says [[(a line from the MP Dragomir Stoynev: What is this? Everyone does what they want. Come on now, you frigates!]] I'm gonna quote him because there's always talk that... [[Extreme lines by National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] I'm only talking about frigates. Even we have had our contradictions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u107	I understand you, Mr. Mareshki. Keep up the frigates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u108	Even though we have had our contradictions, the President speaks of the President, in terms of modernization and re-arming! There's been a big lie out here. But because I don't believe everything, I tried to understand why this thing was happening. Unexpectedly for me, news from yesterday came out of Cornelia Ninova's unexpected meeting with the American ambassador. Colleagues, say those things. Let's invite the American ambassador to join us right away. We'll become the American ambassador immediately. For the purchase of frigates, for the purchase of any other warships. Clearly, everyone ignores their election promises. Unlike most colleagues who do, we are absolutely consistent. Yes, we have recorded these things in our program, but as priorities after health care, education, internal order and security, a doctor and a police officer in every settlement. And then, and then, buying frigates. Since we do not believe everything, we ordered from the other day express, online inquiry into what the Bulgarian citizens believe.. the voters of all of you. If it were up to you, how would you spend 6 billion? lv. State money? s: 26% of them would give them for education, which would guarantee a better paid job that is the priority of young people between 19 and 29 years of age, the future of Bulgaria, to which we will now put the burden of paying billions of dollars for buying frigates. About 25% want state investment in key economic sectors. This answer has given the most Bulgarians between 40 and 49 years of age the Bulgarians at their strongest working age. 15% of respondents believe that money should be given priority for health care and improvement of municipal hospitals. People have pointed to higher rates: raising teachers' pensions and salaries, dealing with domestic crime, police officer in each village. And only 3.3% of the Bulgarians replied that we should give billions of levs to buy frigates. That's right now, the study is two days old. Based on these studies, I am sure that tomorrow, when you are preparing again an election program, your first point will be BGN 300. a pension that is not a fact there is no money there, the second will be a police officer in every village, but there will be no point to buy frigates! [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] There won't be a point like that. It will be covered somewhere, possibly neglected and owned at any election event. This unnecessary luxury with the possible purchase of frigates will lead to that there will be absolutely no money left for the next generations of Bulgarians to deal with the misery. For those million and a half Bulgarians who are below the poverty line, why are we not making decisions for these people? This is a priority for all of us, you are constantly talking about it on the left and on the right, it is also in our program. We will support you fully. Not a word! When it comes to robbing, robbing, somehow seeing a very tight... [[Replication by National Representative Valeri Zablyanov]] When it comes to the true priorities of Bulgarian citizens, consensus, synergies, and when it comes to the real priorities of Bulgarian citizens, then everyone hides and forgets what they promised. Dear colleagues, most likely we will remain the only parliamentary party represented, which will try to protect the Bulgarian national interest and the interest of Bulgarian citizens, not to waste this money for unnecessary purchase of unnecessary frigates. I can talk to you in substance, but I have no right to do it next week, about how much more modern weapons methods there are that would be much more useful to the Bulgarian army than unnecessary frigates. But, like I said, I'll keep the rules and do it next week. I leave it to each of you to remember what he promised his constituents. Remember, when you go back to your settlements and you see bankrupt hospitals, you see holes, you see robbed old people. And you don't see any attack on water that would require the purchase of frigates. Therefore, on the conscience of each of you, think whether to stand on the side of the Bulgarian people or on the side of people who want to rob the last money of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Nikolov, you have an application for a statement under procedure. [[(Reply by National Representative Valeri Zablyanov:]] Mr. Zablyanov, I see you, Mr. Nikolov has declared.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products should be extended by 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Nikolov. They voted 143 MPs: 124, none, abstention 19. The offer is accepted. The procedure had Mr. Zablyanov, before him was Mr. Popov in the manner of conduct. And you, in the manner of conduct, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I call on you, when you lead the sitting, not to express your personal attitude towards those who speak, because, when Mr Mareshki spoke, you paid ironic attention to continue for the frigates. Your comment contained an ironic note. This is unacceptable for a person who presides over the National Assembly. Please don't let it happen again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u113	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I didn't put any irony into it. If he had the smallest, Mr. Mareshki would have reacted. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, it is indeed unacceptable for you to violate the regulations. I can even see the ease with which you were smiling at this joke or Mr. Mareshki's slickness to change his declaration, because under the Rules of Procedure it is not right to be on the subject that we are debating and to have genuine fun. Unfortunately, you can have fun, but do not entertain the Bulgarian people and this is what the Bulgarian Parliament institution suffers from. In this National Assembly there should be people who have not come to have fun, but to solve specific problems. Yes, at the moment we have a dispute and we want to find the right way to modernise the Bulgarian army, and at the same time you turn it here, see, to sweet talk! It is shameful, dear Mr. President, that you did not intervene from the political party GERB clearly do not understand the seriousness of this parliament. Unfortunately, you do not understand and the institutions that this is why the Bulgarian people do not believe in the institutions and people to leave the country. Such cheerful talk, when it comes to millions and billions, is completely unacceptable! It's pathetic! It is a pity, because before you was Mrs. Karayancheva that you did not make a remark, you did not stop talking about the modernization, who explained to him even that no one is talking about one-what-Fregati, because in this way he is mocking not only the National Assembly, but also the importance of this debate! You are simply not worthy to occupy these seats in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I want a personal explanation. I just want to say that I wouldn't qualify Mr. Mareshki's statement as a sly one. You have the floor for a personal explanation. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Wait, after him, I'll give you the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] He was affected. I understand. Mr. Mareshki, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I did not know that the use of the right to procedure in the manner of conduct, because it cannot be answered, must most viciously offend colleagues. When there are no arguments, insults begin! That's why I'd like to make a note. When someone dares, apparently after meeting other people's ambassadors, to go blaming, to insult...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u117	Mr. Mareshki, focus!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u118	I'm focused.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u119	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u120	I was insulted. Until yesterday, I wasn't offended. [[Noise and lines.]] That's your upbringing? I have listened most carefully to the harshest insults you have ever been able to utter. If that's your upbringing, let everyone look at you! You'll be entitled to your five minutes of fame. I will not let anyone treat you this way, especially when he robs the Bulgarian people!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u121	Mr. Mareshki, I ask you again, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u122	To note that after all their governments have led the Bulgarian people to poverty, they have no right to treat a person who makes sure that the Bulgarian people live better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Who's gonna go first? Mr. Popov, then Mr. Kutev. Mr. Velkov, do you support... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. You, within a few minutes, have already violated the Rules of Procedure harshly twice. Firstly, circumventing the Law, Mr. President, you should know it very well, including the attempt to circumvent the Rules through this cheap trick, I would call it, should also be sanctioned by you. However, it is not sanctioned. On the contrary, you were sitting quietly, undisturbed in the back, smiling at all these violations of the procedure in the Rules of the National Assembly, expressed here by Mr Mareshki. Then you violated the procedure again. You should have a type of behavior from this tribune here when you sit on top. We have repeatedly asked you in a procedure to allow for a personal explanation. You didn't give BSP such a procedure, but you gave Mr. Mareshki! It is obvious from these two only procedures and from your overall behavior here, in this Chamber and on this issue, what is the case between GERB and Volja. The NATOs convince the anti-Naths, and in the end, they're all happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u125	Thank you. Mr. Angelov, on behalf of a group? Let's just finish the procedure, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Lazarov, come in on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! All of you and we, of course, are making abuse of the procedure in the manner of conduct, depending on who has spoken, depending on whether the time of the parliamentary group is over, depending on whether someone has made a statement and has no right to a second speech, and in the manner of conduct, of course, statements are made on the substance. I call you to the call of Mr. Zarkov, who he made to, when the manner of conduct is abused, this topic I have raised before, deduct from the time of the parliamentary group. This one, first. Secondly, honourable Members, the procedure in the manner of conduct is a remark to the President. If someone abuses this procedure and makes speeches to any other MP who has previously spoken and mentions his name, I do not want to go on, of course, that this is in violation of the procedure. It is natural to give the right to a personal explanation. Yes, there is one principle: no one can draw rights from their wrongful conduct. This does not mean, however, that with the unlawful conduct of someone who has done the procedure, in the manner of conduct, but not to the President, but to use a reply, even though he has no right to anyone else who has spoken, he wants to draw rights from his unlawful conduct. It is normal to give, Mr. Chairman, the right to a personal explanation when there is abuse of the procedure in the manner of conduct! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u127	That was on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u128	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u129	That's what you said? Okay, I'm sorry. Procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In order for there to be no confusion, I'm making a statement on behalf of a group, not a theater troupe. Let's get on the record! Because some make declarations on behalf of theatre troupes from the stands of the Bulgarian Parliament. On the occasion of Mr. Mareshki's speeches a moment ago, I will continue his thought with the promises to the voters who is fulfilling them and who is not. I will note the following facts that we say in recent days because Mr. Mareshki very actively explains his new positions, which he has changed from his election campaign. All of a sudden, a party of NATO, European-oriented, willing to re-arm the three kind of troops is against it. I ask: who lied to the voters then, we, the United Patriarchs, or the Volya Party?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u131	Mr. Angelov, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u132	Of what?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u133	Me! In the manner of conduct or on behalf of a group?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u134	On behalf of a group. Explain, Mr. Mareshki, don't get out of the room! Who lied to the voters? We, the United Patriarchs, or you who speak one... [[Noise and lines.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, I took, I said, not a theater troupe, if someone didn't understand! [[Relations of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u135	I'm not talking about armaments, Taskov. At least listen! [[Applause from OP.]] So those who lied to their constituents are different. They're from the party. They're from the party. They're from the party. They're from the party. The accusations that Mr. Mareshki has given us that we are not fulfilling our election program and the government's management programme, which is between GERB and the United Patriarchs, are also not true. Because all these things that we have bet them, such as: raising incomes in the sector - Security - such as raising pensioners' incomes, including you remember that the minimum pension has increased by 25%. Since June 1st, all pensions were indexed by 3.8%. These commitments, which the United Patriarchs and GERB have made to the people of the third age, are being fulfilled. They will be fulfilled! What's more, why did they give money for something other than education and health care? Make a reference, Mr. Mareshki, today's government has increased the funds it currently has for education and health care in this budget? [[Noise and lines.]] Look, anyone can make a reference. They are in times more than the previous years have been increased. [[Private applause.]] I'm talking about the increase, I'm not talking about the whole amount. [[Replications from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] If you think I can't do the math, I can do the math, Mr. Zablyanov. So all of these things that the United Patriarchs and GERB have undertaken as commitments, we are fulfilling them both in our election campaign and in the management program. All these accusations that Mareshki's party has spilled on us are simply untruths and lies. We insist on Mr. Mareshki to determine whether he stands above the words of his associate and chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad Mr. Donchev, who is constantly on a business trip, seconded by the Bulgarian Parliament, representing the Bulgarian Parliament, representing the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad and not himself, expresses positions that are contrary to the policy that leads this parliamentary committee at all. Does it stand behind these words that the European Union and NATO do not need any state? Does it stand over the fact that there is a people of Yugoslavia at the moment to apologize? In front of our countrymen in the Western Outskirts who have always dreamed of mother Bulgaria?! Does he stand behind his behaviour in Ukraine, where in front of the Bulgarian community and the guests from Bulgaria, he gave a speech in Russian, which is unacceptable? In front of people who know and speak Bulgarian! To speak Russian in another country?! Totally unacceptable behavior! This person will again be seconded to Ukraine to represent the Bulgarian Parliament. This is unacceptable! We no longer want this person to represent the Bulgarian Parliament. As a MP he can go anywhere to express his positions, to say whatever he wants, but as chairman of a parliamentary committee, seconded by the Bulgarian National Assembly, he has no right to do so. We very much, yesterday we mentioned that this person should not be officially posted on behalf of the Bulgarian National Assembly. We do not want to cause discord and confuse Bulgarians abroad. Instead of talking about their problems: what should be decided, with what to help the Bulgarian state, what to ask of the country in which they live to talk about the European Union, NATO, re-arming and all other nonsense, and peoples who do not exist on the planet! Moreover, those words that Mr. Donchev said in the village of Zvontsi, in the Western suburbs, about the people of Yugoslavia! Excuse me, Mr. Donchev, this Yugoslavia and the previous royal Yugoslavia are formations that were anti-Bulgarian formations! These countries have always been directed against Bulgaria and Bulgarians living in the territory of Yugoslavia, both royal and communist Yugoslavia! You are defending a state creation that has always been against the Bulgarian national interests, against Bulgaria and against the Bulgarian minority there, in the way you express it. And we ask ourselves: who do you serve the interests of the Bulgarians abroad or the interests of foreign countries? That's what's interesting about us. We call on Mr. Mareshki as Chairman of the party "Volja" to make a conversation and show courage, and to call Mr. Donchev as Chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. If he does, then we will really understand that he has the courage, that the people who have voted trust in him and his party will not be deceived. Otherwise Mr. Mareshki will also stand on this thesis which Mr. Donchev launched, which from the election program was elected as a Nazi, European, and suddenly became a Stalinist and a slothist. This is unacceptable! So, someone lied to the voters. And to finish my thought, I would like to say something to Mr. Donchev specifically: if Mr. Donchev had been born in some other time, during the time of Todor Alexandrov, he would never have thought of saying such things and betraying the Bulgarian national interests in Serbia! Shame and shame! Resign! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u138	A statement, Mr. Velkov? Put your card on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u139	Yeah. How do I put my card on, Mrs. Karayancheva, when Mr. Angelov didn't get his card out?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u140	Put your card on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u141	Come and get your card! [[National Representative Julian Angelov takes his card.]] Thank you for your opportunity. I would like to say a few words before I take into account the substance of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u142	The bottom line, Mr. Velkov, because your time is about to run out!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u143	Colleagues, you're talking, you're making speeches from... [[Mister President Boyko Borisov enters the Chamber with applause from the ruling majority.]] Please, 30 seconds bonus because the Prime Minister interrupted me... [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u144	He didn't interrupt you. You interrupted yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u145	Because of the applause, I stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u146	Here you go, Mr. Velkov. You've lost a valuable minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u147	Thank you. You speak on behalf of a parliamentary group, and you act just like members of a theater troupe. It is unworthy of the present Bulgarian generals, who remain with a completely different impression of parliament. Please, let us give them the necessary respect and attention! I'm glad the Prime Minister came. To say, honourable colleagues, who just now, including Mr. Hristov, tried to place responsibility for the failure of the projects of BSP for Bulgaria. We're not here to measure our responsibilities! By the way, because there is talk of frigates, the idea of not having warships in the aquatory of the Black Sea, but only boats, sailboats and so on sea vessels for walks, was of the esteemed Prime Minister. And there's nothing wrong with that! [[(Reply of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov:]] He even shared. Now on the projects in two words. We are here today to defend the Bulgarian national interest by realizing the need of the nation. We need the projects. Not that they don't have flaws, they have, Mr. General, flaws, and Mr. Deputy Minister. But flaws are not a priority position over positive things. These projects give a light in the tunnel, give a time horizon. That is why we will do everything we can to support them. Please, let's not measure our options and responsibilities. It's a product of the security environment, the changed security environment. While the president of the United States of America and the head of North Korea measured their nuclear buttons, who's the bigger one, the world immediately recognized North Korea as a nuclear power. After a few days, the head of the most powerful country in the world sits down to talk to him. I'm saying this for nothing else, because if you're not strong, no one will pay attention to you, they won't sit at the table with you. Yesterday, questions were asked: but what will eight planes or 90 or 150 war machines contribute? Well, if four planes fly now and we take eight planes, our air force will be three times as high. If we don't have a modern war machine right now and the infantry gets into 90, it's going to be 90 times as big. We know very well that at the moment the capabilities of the Bulgarian armed forces are limited and as written in the report: they carry out their tasks with difficulties and increased risk. We have a new security environment waiting for us, and it's in the real Middle East. A new, almost 10-year war is coming to Syria. We need to fix our own yard with regard to the armed forces. That's why yesterday General Popov said: So I'm gonna press the green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u148	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Velkov, you can see that you spoke less for 23 seconds. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote Project for a decision to adopt a Project for Investment Cost "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment" for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade and an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of battle plane." I'm not going to read the whole decision. It was read yesterday. Vote 159 MPs: 151 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We're moving on to PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I'd like to make an announcement: Dear MPs, in the holiday we will not use when the MPs are in the couloirs, can see the exhibition "Bulgarian High and Nanotechnologies" - part two, which was presented in the European Parliament in 2012. It will hold a demonstration with active machines. These scientific achievements and innovations are part of the protection of the funds received from us under the Operational Programme "Science and education for forwarding growth." The inventors Dr. Konstantin Trenchev and Professor Zhivko Zhelev will demonstrate their inventions and will answer your questions. Colleagues, I would like to congratulate our guests students from the First Secondary School. [[Applause]] , which are ambassadors of the European Parliament, and students from the secondary school. St. Cyril and Metodiy. "Satovcha village, Blagoevgrad district. [[Applause.]] New questions have been received for the period from 1 June 2018 to 7 June 2018 by the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the development of sustainable competitive and market agriculture. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 June 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on two questions from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u149	Mr. Prime Minister Borisov, welcome! You haven't been to parliament since July 7, 2017. 11 months, to answer in parliamentary control. I dare say there's no such thing in the world. Almost a year the prime minister has not set foot in front of parliament to take account of the government's work. Soon I met with leaders of a Visegrad Four party, and I assure you, Mr. Borisov, a brilliant example of working parliamentary democracy. Even these strong leaders, before each meeting of European institutions appear before their parliaments, receive support and go with self-confidence to the meetings that their parliaments are behind them. We have not once heard from the National Assembly on any of the important topics, such as the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. We didn't discuss them, we didn't support you to give you this self-confidence that you really need to appear with the power of all the people's representation. However, we have heard that he who insults the Prime Minister insults a nation, a country and a nation. Why am I saying all this, colleagues? Because we have a chance, even at the end of our presidency, to correct mistakes and to assist the government. At the moment, colleagues, there is a discussion on the draft EU budget for the next programming period. Perhaps some of you will say it's not important? It's so important you can't even imagine! It is not only about money, it is about the life of every Bulgarian and every European citizen. It is about the future of Europe and the place of Bulgaria there. If we ask the Bulgarian citizens if they know what a future awaits them through this budget, there will not be many who can respond. I ask you, the Bulgarian MPs of the majority! Do you know what your government's position is on cohesion policy? I'll tell you. Tomislav Donchev: "We welcome the course of spending money, but there must be a requirement for a criterion for this. " Dear colleagues, did you know that new criteria, such as demographic disaster and poverty, will be taken into account in the future programming period? We have no doubt that we are the fastest disappearing people and the poorest in the European Union, do we? Both justice and solidarity require particular attention to such countries in order not to divide Europe into two speeds. Why are countries of far higher standards appreciated differently from us? Here's how: in the budget project Italy will receive 11 billion. EUR more, Spain EUR more, Greece - by 6 billion EUR more if we take into account the new criteria. We are the poorest and fastest disappearing country. Why is that? Because there are statesmen who defend the interests of their peoples and know how to make international policy with allies and allies. Here's what the Visegrad Four says about Croatia, Romania and Slovenia on this issue:..................................... must remain for all regions of the European Union, but it should mainly be for the less developed regions and Member States and the new priorities not to be at the expense of cohesion policy........................ for such states and such positions. Can we be like that? We could have, Mr. Borisov, but you missed this opportunity because the government is big, it is on top of Europe and it cannot deal with some small-time, such as demographics and poverty. On the outstretched hand of these seven countries, the response of the Bulgarian government was that the President would remain neutral and could not express national positions. What do you keep neutrality from, Mr. Borisov? You keep neutrality from the Bulgarian national interest. It's the same in agricultural policy. Our farmers receive some of the lowest subsidies. But now they're going to cut it by another 2%, and those in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia will rise by 13%. Where is Bulgarian agriculture and Bulgarian food going? And why is that? The answer is the same. Because they run statesmen there, not politicians with mandate thinking like us. I'm telling us all to wake up parliament, putting the next questions. The future of Europe is now decided on another topic of migration. I'm asking you guys, how many of you know what's expected? The quantum principle failed. The Dublin agreement isn't working. Leaders in Europe rejected Bulgaria's proposal as Chairman. We're at a dead end! What does Europe's budget propose for the next period do you know? To increase migration funds of 13 billion. EUR 35 billion Euros. We support all funding to strengthen the border, to strengthen the human resource that must protect the border, because Europe's security is an important priority. We would also like to take care of the refugees from war, but why not implement the decisions to return economic migrants? Only one third of the decisions in Europe to return these people who are illegally staying here are being implemented, but the funds for their social integration are being increased here in Europe, taking from the funds for the underdeveloped regions. What do European leaders say about this? For example, Poland, the Prime Minister: What does the Bulgarian government say? What do you think? The Minister of Interior: We are looking at what the Commission is proposing to us - a regulation, text by text, at the level of expertise. Those statesmen express their position and say: we will preserve our national sovereignty. Bulgaria says: we are looking at some texts that the Commission has given us, regulation by regulation. One more issue stands for solving at the moment, another mistake that may be deepening, and it is the bureaucracy in Europe. Dear colleagues, I do not know if you know that the future budget provides for the increase of the funds for the administration in Europe, for administration from 77 to 85 billion euros! Eight billion euros more for clerks! We don't agree with that. I draw your attention to the fact that Austrian Chancellor Kurtz has gone far ahead and said that he proposes to reduce commissioners from 28 to 18 and listen to the state's attitude: "Brussels must set an example and cut administrative costs if we want to save Europe!" These are the kinds of issues that interest European peoples, European leaders and statesmen. I wish we, here in Parliament, and with you, Mr. Prime Minister, as a government, could get into these issues. And don't tell me we're talking anti-European, because I'm going to ask you: is President Macron European opposed to reducing subsidies for his farmers? Is President Kurtz anti-European, asking for a reduction in European bureaucracy? For Brother Orbán, as you call him, I will not speak, you know his position. For the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, Romania, Slovenia, and are they anti-Europeans, colleagues? The most anti-European, the most dangerous at the moment for the future of Europe is the silence of your silence, Prime Minister, on these issues! That is why we insist that you submit to the Bulgarian Parliament the draft budget of Europe for the next programming period, to discuss together, to find common with our national interest, to give you a mandate and to give you the strength to present it [[noise and lines]] , and protect it in the common European interest, to be equal to others, with strength and self-esteem, not obedient to others! In your opinion, almost every meeting in Bulgaria during the Presidency was a historical meeting. Dear Members of the National Assembly, history will tell us what is historical. [[Heckling]] There are several options: the story to decide that it is a historic walk by Mrs. Macron, Mrs. May, Mr. Borisov on the Bridge of Love, and Mrs. Merkel, above the National Palace of Culture. Second option: history to write that during the Bulgarian Presidency the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament have wasted Bulgaria's chance and their national interest. I call on you to challenge history to write the third that the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian Government protected the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian national interest and guaranteed Bulgaria's prosperity during the Presidency. It's up to us all! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u151	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I want on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, I suppose I can speak on behalf of the parliamentary majority at the moment, I would like to congratulate the Bulgarian government on the efforts and on the successful Presidency that our country is implementing right now. [[Applause on the right.]] Even today the Prime Minister was engaged in a conference with representatives from Europe and the relevant Bulgarian institutions and commented on the topic of cohesion policy and migration. And not for a moment has this debate been absent from any meeting held by the Prime Minister or by all ministers having direct relations and commitments to the Bulgarian Presidency. I would also like to thank all the parliamentarians who participated in the parliamentary dimension related to the Bulgarian Presidency. Here I can say that we also have a closed file and it is under the rules of procedure for parliamentary control of Europol, which were adopted exactly during the Bulgarian Presidency on 26 March this year. Dear colleagues on the left, let us just say that precisely at the insistence of the Bulgarian government and the Prime Minister, the Western Balkans were included as one of the main accents of the Bulgarian Presidency. And when today we are also talking about cohesion policy, when we are talking about both perspective and future, we should always talk about the fact that part of national security and part of the region's development goes through the European perspective for the Western Balkans. There is no Bulgarian statesman, there is no Bulgarian politician who for such a short period of time has been accepted by all European leaders, by all leaders of the Western Balkans, and Bulgaria has been a mediator so that it can actually be created, to outline this European perspective for the Western Balkans. It is clear to everyone that the most important thing to have prosperity for both Bulgaria and the region and the Western Balkans, and for a strong and united Europe, is the connectivity that must exist, and that is why I believe that the Prime Minister should never be reproached, but should be supported and encouraged, as well as the actions of the Bulgarian government. I would ask my fellow Members on the left to participate actively in the debate that is being held on the new financial framework, the debate that is being held on what will happen to cohesion policy, and in support of these words, I can give a few facts from what the Political Party GERB does and what the European People's Party does. Colleagues, have you forgotten that only two months ago in Bulgaria there was a meeting of the Committee of the Regions? The topic was discussed precisely with regard to cohesion policy and the budget to be adopted and what impact it has on the development of local authorities and regions in Europe. Exactly at this conference, apart from the European leaders from the EPP, was the prime minister who took part and there was very critical of some of these policies, which could actually be detrimental to Bulgaria and our national policy. But Mrs. Nino, we are leading the debate politically and not here, but we are taking it to Europe and defending Bulgaria's national interests at the European forums. That you are isolated from this process... [[Noise and lines on the left, applause from GERB.]] Even here I can say to give an example of what the leader of the PES, of the European Socialists, gives an assessment of Sergey Stanishev. They even had joint events, joint initiatives, the Prime Minister and the President of the PES. We do not view the Presidency and the future of Bulgaria as such of GERB or of BSP, but we consider it as a union of all responsible politicians who represent us on the European stage so that we can actually be united and work together. And here I can say that this is indeed for Sergei Stanishev, with whom we may have had many contradictions, but also that they should be really encouraged and stimulate all those politicians who contribute to hearing Bulgaria's strong voice in the European Union. And, Mrs. Ninova, when you talk about budgets, I do not know, but I am convinced that there is also a debate in the PES between the presidents of national parliaments, debates that are being held precisely about the new financial programming period and cohesion policy. And I can tell you that under the European People's Party, on 26 and 27 June there will be such a meeting in Brussels, where I will also participate, as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB from the Bulgarian Parliament, so that we can actually talk about cohesion policy and the new financial framework. Do what European Socialists do! Do what the Visegrad Four leaders do, which you set out as an example, because they, through their national parliaments and with their national politicians, are actively involved in making European decisions at European policy level. Prime Minister, since you are here, I take advantage of this case on behalf of the parliamentary group and the parliamentary majority to support you for the efforts you make on a daily basis for the results that are being achieved. [[Minister President Boyko Borisov and the people's representative Mustafa Karadaye, who comes out of the Chamber, exchange lines.]] Here I can give an example of what Lilyana Pavlova did as a minister related to the European Presidency.. made a review and a report on what was done in the first part of the European Presidency. I am convinced that after the remaining few days until the end of time for our Presidency, we will take account of high results, but most importantly, we have received the recognition of the European leaders and there was no delegation from the European Union who was involved in decision making on the relevant sectoral policies which did not deserve what Bulgaria deserved and what the Prime Minister did and the entire Council of Ministers and, of course, in the part of the parliamentary dimension. [[The National Representative Velislava Krasteva is leaving the Chamber.]] Here I would also like to thank Mr. Vigenin, who heads an important committee, Ivelina Vasileva, General Popov and, of course, all members of the Internal Commission, who participated in the realization and successful presentation of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension. Let us be truly objective when we go out on this stand and speak and have the necessary respect for the executive power. Here, let us note that despite this busy programme that the Bulgarian government is implementing today and, respectively, the Prime Minister, honors the Prime Minister that he is here today, among us, so that he can actually answer the parliamentary questions. [[Strong noise, lines, calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u152	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u153	The parliamentary questions you asked. Of course, we also have the opportunity to talk about topics, but I am convinced that what is being done today should be appreciated. And thank you. And be objective! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. We're moving on to parliamentary control. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will be the first to answer a question from the MP Anton Kutev about the visit of the Bulgarian Prime Minister in Moscow at the end of May 2018. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u155	Dear Prime Minister, just to begin with that it is not an honor that you are here, but it is your duty that you should observe more often. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Tsvetanov just described you as a responsible politician, as well as all the people of GERB. I will start with a few quotes from the responsible politician Borisov, asking himself the question of what you spoke in Moscow about gas supplies. Since March 28 March 2012, a meeting of the Council of Ministers, where several important decisions are made. One of them is stopping the nuclear power plant. Now, there's talk of NPP Belene being... There are two main reasons, by the way, to stop "Belene." One of them is that it's an earthquake zone, the second one is the financial justification. I don't know what's changed since then, that you've changed direction. You'll probably explain it to us. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, would you mind putting in order? Can you not yell, please? The nameless behinds you're talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u156	Here you go, Mr. Kutev. Don't insult the coworkers, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u157	The second is the acceleration of the South Stream. You decided in 2012 to speed up South Stream. You said this was an extremely profitable project for Bulgaria. You said that there are extremely good partners involved, that we have a great coalition for South Stream. You said: "Putin told me that December 2015 should run gas. " You said that Erdogan had signed all the proper documents. This looks terrible to me like the last messages you've had since May, now, a few days ago. In the meantime, however, 2015 comes when on 12 December 2015 you personally, before that and Mrs. Bachvarova boasts, you are doing it to Am Cham that thanks to your friendship with America you have actually recognized Hezbollah, we... Bulgaria, for a terrorist organization and you have stopped three major Russian projects. It's a credit to America, as far as I can tell from your statement. Finally, we come to the fact that you say on 30 May, after the end of your meeting with Mr Putin, especially in gas supplies, you say that Bulgaria retains its gas distribution role in the Balkans, that Putin and Erdogan do not mind the entry point being on the Bulgarian border...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u158	The question already, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u159	Yes! And that through the Turkish stream there will be 34 billion cubic meters of gas. My question to you is: what has changed all these years, and how did you explain it to Mr Putin? What did you and Putin talk about gas?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister for an answer. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u161	Madam President, Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wish I could start with what Mrs. Nino said and how we could, as a country, achieve better results. Certainly more and that is why we proposed that the Minister for European Affairs, the European Presidency, the President of Parliament for the time of the Presidency be from your party. You said we wanted to buy you then. Now you're offering the same thing to us to work together. Okay, I'll take it. Thus, with this accent and tone that you have asked me, I will be brief. What President Radev is tracking, that is what we have achieved. [[Applause from GERB.]] I was prepared to respond otherwise, but what he was tracking, I went to see what was traceable. It wasn't traceable. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u162	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u163	Dear Prime Minister, your banter with President Radev is not in your favor because he has a higher rating than you and you obviously cannot get used to it. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And besides...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u164	On the subject, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u165	...I want to tell you that you've probably been on another date. At least I wanted to hear it, see your assessment anyway. I couldn't, unfortunately, let you give it later. Looks like you've been on different dates with Mr. Putin. Because your assessment at least what the Council of Ministers said in its official message, I quoted some points from it.. is radically different from what Mr Putin says, not to mention what the chief of the press office Mr. Peskov says. The difference is absolutely essential. You are talking about how 35 billion cubic meters will pass through Bulgaria, Peskov says: "I am sorry, I translate from Russian gas delivery arrangements in Bulgaria for the Turkish stream there is none. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are talking about what you have achieved in these talks and how Bulgaria is already back on the gas map from now on, you say, only that there is talk about not only that there is no agreement but that there was neither the task of negotiating nor the possibility of negotiating nor such things have been done, Peskov said. He said: "Bulgaria is interested. " Finally, one of Peskov's lines is that the work is apologizing for the Russian translation in the stock plan. To tell you the one who translated you from Russian, because it's not you, you don't know the language, that doesn't mean the same thing. The fact that the work will be carried out in a hard plan means that the policy has been exhausted from now on. And in this policy, in Putin's and Peskov's statements, none of your statements are there and that from now on, in the framework of some agreements of the administrators below things will continue. That doesn't mean any of the things you said. None of the messages from the Council of Ministers that you have released are actually responding to what Putin has announced. Even less of what Peskov says. At all, Mr. Borisov, I think you just don't get along with these people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have some kind of communication that is completely different for them and for you. I think you're gonna have to change your team, because obviously you're not gonna be able to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the coat, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I'm sorry about this. Every time I come to parliament, I know that you're waiting for me to come not to do any work, but to be able to tell each other what you're up to. For ratings, in this direction I would say that GERB has a higher rating than BSP [[Applause from GERB]] And Maya Manolova has a bigger rating than the president, and that doesn't mean anything. That doesn't mean anything! And instead of asking me, you could go to your president and ask him what he was tracking? Because meeting me was three hours, with President Putin. So not to be, with a sworn Russian translator, and so that I didn't understand what you were saying, and in person they were betraying it, I can't agree with you. But what can I say?! Instead of debating how... In fact, the big problem, I can go back and how South Stream was stopped and....... about corruption practices... about the call for tenders......................... nothing helps us......................................... We have a problem. Then I called Rumen Ovcharov in good faith. We have a gas contract until 2030. In this case we are talking about an additional amount of gas that will enter Bulgaria. And Mr. Stoinev knows very well. This additional amount under the Third Liberalisation Package must be seen how to spend it on our transmission system to Serbia, Hungary, Macedonia, Greece. This is the problem between the European Commission and the Russian Federation. That's why the North Stream is stuck. And here Mrs. Ninova, I absolutely agree with her... that we can decide in Parliament, a mandate can be given. But yes... [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u168	Don't engage in dialogue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u169	Yes, but you can see your MP turning to me and how the conversation started. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u170	Please! Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u171	That's how they start, the conversation leads to that kind of attitude. And that is why President Putin ordered Miller, we, respectively, to our Energy Minister, now meet all the ministers in Belgrade on June 13th, together with the European Commission, to see how, in what way, what the European Commission has stated is part of the gas or all the gas, but I think we will agree on part of the gas, to trade on the territory of Bulgaria and the other to have direct contracts for Serbia and Hungary. A huge problem we have to solve. And you know perfectly well, Mr. Stoinev, with all due respect to him, I'm sure he'll support me on how to work in Brussels when you go with contracts. You're using the case to pick on me and exchange lines. It doesn't help anyone. It doesn't help anyone. On one side our partners write that I am a vassal of Putin, you tell me that I don't get along with him. Who am I supposed to believe in in the end? And for three hours, we talked best about everything he had. When he comes to Bulgaria this year, I will ask to sit with you in Russian to explain to you what he thinks. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] That's what I can do. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u172	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[(Noise and lines. (Applause)]] Quiet, please! Colleagues, thank Mr. Borisov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u173	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u174	I'll be right with you. Let's thank Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, [[Applause from GERB]] for participation in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause from GERB.]] Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u175	Mr. Borisov, let me tell you on the way out that if you need Russian, if you need English, we'll sort it out somehow. Not in a bank. I apologize. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u176	I'm asking you to behave yourself and not insult the Prime Minister. [[The National Representatives of GERB leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u177	But for what did I request the procedure in the manner of conduct? Look, this is how you set the task... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u178	Colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u179	...when after a year there is no parliamentary control at which the Prime Minister was present, and when then came and you violated all the rules in practice of parliamentary control, at least because I kept up to a second the time in which I had to speak stood against me... In the end, the Prime Minister spoke for four minutes. But the problem isn't that he talked for four minutes. The problem is that in those four minutes he didn't answer the question he was asked. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u180	Colleagues, please be quiet, take your seats! Hold on, Mr. Kutev. Save Mr. Kutev's time, stop counting the time until the room calms down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u181	No, it's not the time problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u182	Wait a minute. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u183	The problem, Mrs. Karayancheva, in this case my procedure in the manner of conduct is about not that he speaks twice as much, which is generally a violation of the Rules, but that for those twice as many, which he spoke about, he did not answer the question, neither the questions I asked him orally nor the question which was submitted in writing two weeks ago. And if the prime minister shows up once a year in our parliamentary republic, or more precisely in a republic with parliamentary rule, as it is written in the Constitution, and this one once a year behaves like a derebey, because that's exactly how he behaves...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u184	Please don't insult the Prime Minister. I'll punish you, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u185	I'm sorry, I'm saying my own opinion about a man who just behaved insultingly to the National Assembly in front of you and with your protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u186	He didn't insult you in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u187	On the contrary, he always claimed that in some way, you see, I've held a tone to it. I have to keep at least the tone you accused me of. I apologize, but such behaviour as a Prime Minister is thick and unacceptable. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u188	Mr. Kutev, I'm making a note of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u189	Fourth for this season.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u190	Yes, of course, but we have to behave ourselves in this Chamber, so I'm making you a remark on art. 156, p. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u191	Can we have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u192	Yes, there will be a procedure, just a second, and I will take a procedure, because I have been blamed for the appearance of the Prime Minister in the National Assembly and the way he behaves. Mr. Kutev, I let you develop your question in the most correct way possible. There was no reaction to the fact that I let the Prime Minister speak a little more because I saw that there was interest on your part. About the questions that have been asked and returned accordingly by me to the Prime Minister. Twelve questions have been returned, asked to the Prime Minister, but only Mr. Zhelyo Boychev has taken advantage of the appeal under the................................................................................... 107, para. 3 of the Rules. All other questions.. 11 have been corrected and addressed to the respective ministers, which means that the MPs have agreed with my remark. There were also questions asked by MPs who were asked in writing to the Prime Minister and they were questions of Mr. Stanislav Stanilov, Mr. Jaihan Ibryamov, Mr. Anton Kutev, two questions answered in writing. The Constitution does not distinguish between oral and written questions................................................................................................ 90, para. 1. You requested written questions both on 9 March and 28 March were answered these questions. In the manner of holding Mr. Chenchev, please come in. Then Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u193	Thank you, Madam President. I am using the procedure in the manner of conduct to pay attention to you and therefore you should pay attention to and demand the presence of this week for the third time I have used this procedure in the National Assembly of the Minister of Interior. His emergency presence. You decide whether now, but this man must come and explain. It just became a clear case. I did not understand what measures the police had taken, but there is yet another case, a muzzle in the state and until here the prime minister gives serious answers to serious questions, to come the interior minister and to answer how a 12-year-old boy with bats is beaten in the middle of Boyana, his 35-year-old mother and his 40-year-old father. It's a case of the last few minutes that's become clear, and it actually happened last night around 9:30, so everything that's happening in the country is bothering me. If you feel safe walking down the street, but you have security, the people's representation doesn't. And please, without any nagging, let the Interior Minister come and give answers to all of us, because he will actually give them to the Bulgarian people. To come and calm him down. Is the police effective, are they taking action? These are questions we're worried about. Please take this seriously. I think what I'm putting here really deserves attention. These are Bulgarian citizens and we should not allow any more criminal vakhanalia in the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u194	Mr. Chenchev, I would ask you not to give such definitions. Thank you. I'll contact the Minister. You want information about today's case, of course. It's not my choice that I walk with a security guard on the streets. You know my status requires it. We're moving on. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u195	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure in the manner of conduct relates to my question, which I have asked to the Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 May this year. In my hands, Madam President, I hold a list sent to the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly by Mrs Rumyana Bachvarova which members of the Council of Ministers will be absent in May from parliamentary control. Yes, Mr. Karakachanov is also mentioned that there is an important event on May 4th. I asked my question on May 4th. It's June 8th. I understand that I am not the only one in this Chamber, but I ask you to call on the ministers to discipline and come within the legal period, which is regulated in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to report and answer the parliamentary questions put by the National Assembly and by the National Assembly. Why? Because although they are elected only with the votes of the majority in this National Assembly, we, the MPs, are their employers and it is appropriate to come and report in addition to the MPs and to our employers the Bulgarian people. That's my request. I will ask and expect next week's parliamentary control the Minister of Defence to appear in the National Assembly and answer its questions, because we have seen cases of how during parliamentary control they can participate in television shows, and we are also witnessing in social networks what is happening to the members of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. I'll inform Mr. Karakachanov of your remark. But just to tell you that I, as President of the National Assembly, have sent letters to all ministers to appear in parliamentary control if any of their commitments fail. I've paid attention to the ministers. I'll contact Mr. Karakachanov. We are moving on to the next Minister - Mr. Valeri Simeonov - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. He will answer first a question from MP Tasco Ermenkov about 160 years since the establishment of the Belgrade High School in the context of the demographic policy of the Bulgarian Presidency. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not for the Deputy Prime Minister, but for the rest of the House, I would like to say a few words about what the Belgrade High School is to make it clear why I am asking this question. The Bolgrad High School is the first average Bulgarian general education school. The high school was founded on the 10th in the old style, 22 June 1858 in a new style with a government decree issued by the Duke of Moldova Nikola Bogoridi, with the active support of prominent reborns such as Georgi Rakovski, Sava Radulov, Ivan Ivanov, Kalenji, and the city leaders Panayot Grekov, Georgi Minchev. Officially, there are classes on May 3, 1859. The production of the school rules is mainly the work of Dr. Ivan Seliminski from Sliven. Directors become prominent Bulgarian revivalists with European education. High school leaves a bright mark in the cultural life of the Bulgarians in this region. Most likely in the line I will mention the more important and very famous alumni of this high school. In order not to take up your time now, I would like, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, given that demographic policy is a major priority of the state, and the preservation and development of the cultural and educational centers of our fellow countrymen abroad is an element of the preservation of Bulgarian culture, please answer the question: what do you intend to take to support and develop the Belgrade High School in relation to the upcoming celebration of the 160th anniversary of its creation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u199	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ermenkov! Thank you for your question. Such Friday questions are very rarely heard. We continue to be debtors to the Bulgarian communities abroad, which are born, live and die with eyes staring at Mother Bulgaria. The Ministry of Education and Science received an open gram of the Consulate General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Odessa with entry No 08316/18 April 2018, in connection with the upcoming celebration of the 160th anniversary of the founding of the Belgrade High School of Georghi Sava Rakovski. Anniversary celebrations will be held on 30 September 2018, together with the celebration of the 180th anniversary of the Bulgarian Cathedral of the Holy Transfiguration of the Lord. On this day, several thousand guests from Ukraine, other countries are expected to arrive in Bolgrad as well. I call on all the MPs on whom the timetable allows them to join this delegation as well. It would be a big gesture for us to respect our countrymen. The Consulate General suggests that the anniversary date should be marked appropriately, with the Bulgarian state providing a subject donation for the needs of the school. A list of the necessary means for the successful functioning of the high school, which was provided by the principal of the school, is attached to the gram. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Belgrade High School was established in 1857, as Mr. Ermenkov set out in his questioning. She has given education, has started in the lives of many patriotic Bulgarians, people who are written in gold letters in the history of Bulgaria. Particularly on the question of supporting the development of the school and in relation to the upcoming celebration the Ministry of Education and Science plans to provide high school equipment for the phonetic cabinet, a set of musical equipment for the sound and musical accompaniment of the events, an interactive multimedia kit with a smartboard, Pirin folk costumes, professional camera, accordions and others. The 160 years have passed are many, especially if we measure them with the height of the price of effort, professionalism and the achieved results that mark the biography of the Belgrade High School. When celebrating this remarkable anniversary, all teachers, students, parents, public figures contribute with their hard work and dedication to the good name of the school. During the celebration a greeting address will be given on behalf of the Minister of Education and Science and why not on behalf of the Prime Minister. This is what I can briefly answer, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u201	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I want to tell you that I am pleased with the answer that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria is setting aside funds for the Belgrade High School. Moreover, it was completed by lights of Bulgarian culture and spirituality. I will now read them to you in alphabetical order: Alexander Balan Academician and First Rector of Sofia University; Alexander Malinov Prime Minister of five governments; Angel Kanchev Revolutionary; Angel Kirov Opponent, lawyer, publicist and so on. I won't read them all, they're countless. I will only complete this list with the words of Hristo Botev, who called this high school sacred to the entire Bulgarian people school. I'm glad you're paying attention to 160 years being a long period. I hope, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that we do not wait for the next 160 years to make another donation and pay attention again to the Belgrade High School. Let what you will do now be the beginning of a systematic assistance that the Bulgarian state will give to this school and not only to this, but also to all outbreaks of Bulgarianism abroad, because ultimately Bulgaria is where the Bulgarians live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, will there be a duplicate? No. The next question is from the National Representative Anton Kutev on the 11th session of a meeting of the States Parties to the UN Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 12 June 2018 in New York, USA. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u203	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a small number of MPs in this Chamber! My question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as I'm sure you understand, is dictated by the concern of organisations with disabilities about how this session is conducted. I don't know if what I have as information is true, and that's why I'm asking about this question to you to explain what the situation is. As I understand it, this session will take place in just a few days. It will take place from June 12th to June 14th and, as far as I understand, the chairmanship of the session this time will be of Bulgaria. Honestly, I don't know who's gonna chair the session, but I'm guessing it's gonna be someone who has something to do with the UN. The issue here was that the people with disabilities and their organizations were worried about the question of how Bulgarian interests are protected there. Under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we know that we have signed the Convention for Persons with Disabilities, but we have not signed the Ratification. This is happening because I think there is a delay in time. We in this room have repeatedly said that according to the plan for integration of people with disabilities there are a bunch of things that do not happen. That is, we do not expect a good reaction soon from the UN specifically with regard to the Convention. We're expected to have a lot of criticism on their part. What we are doing within this working group is important for the assessments to Bulgaria. Is it true that at this session nine new representatives of the organizations for people with disabilities should have been elected, nine new members of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Is it true we don't have any suggestions? Maybe we do, but I don't know. Do we have any suggestions there? That's one part of the question I'm asking you. Do we have a delegation to go there and what are the policies that are assigned to this delegation to protect within this meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Simeonov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kutev, on issues related to the 11th Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities scheduled for 12-14 June in New York, I give you the following answers in the order of the questions. What will be the composition of the delegation of Bulgaria at this meeting? Chairman Georgi Panayotov, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria to the United Nations, by law, members of the Council of Ministers of Labour and Social Policy, as appropriate, Nadezhda Harizanova State Expert at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Asya Tsvetanova First Secretary at the Embassy of Representation in New York. A second question?? Who are the people who will take part in the discussion? Ambassador Georgi Panayotov as Chairman of the Conference for the current period will lead the 11th session of the Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Third question: What are the policies that Bulgaria will defend at this meeting and more generally within the framework of the UN Convention? During the joint debate a national speech will be made by Bulgaria, which will present the priorities in the national policy for people with disabilities and the main steps for implementing the regulations of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in national legislation and practice. The main activities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union will also be presented in relation to the priority of people with disabilities, full members of society, as well as progress in negotiations with the European Parliament on the European accessibility act. Fourth question "What are Bulgaria's proposals for members of the Committee, and how are they chosen? Bulgaria has not broadcast a candidate for a member of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Short, I hope it's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u207	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it is short and clear, another question is whether it will be beneficial. I hope it is. I really have no real idea what can happen at such a meeting and what are the real benefits for Bulgaria that could be protected. I have no real idea if we have broadcast candidates for members of the Committee, whether they can, in fact, be approved and accepted there. I don't know what the mechanism is. If you think you're satisfied with this procedure, I'm okay. My task and purpose was to convey concern to people with disabilities specifically for this. I hope their organizations are happy with the answer you gave, because I'm still telling you that's not my question. Please, when this meeting is over, let's get some report on what's done to her and what they've managed to protect our diplomats there, hoping we can have this conversation again afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, douche bag? You won't. We would like to thank Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov concerning the case of the Consul General of the Republic of Bulgaria in the town of Adrianople, the Republic of Turkey, regarding the celebration of the national holiday Third March. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u209	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The case of the Consul General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Adrianople in Adrianople, Mr. Vasil Valchev, provokes widespread public discontent with regard to the celebration of the third March national holiday. Negative reaction prompted Mr. Valchev's specific decision to give an official reception, but to cancel the planned festive cultural program on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery. A number of career diplomats commented on his decision as inappropriate and even unprofessional. The subsequent explanations of your office with the quoted arguments by the Bulgarian Consul in Adrianople did not clarify the case to the end. It is said that the speech of the consul general was ambiguous and inappropriate for a Bulgarian diplomat. Indeed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria differed from the decision and speech of Mr. Valchev, delivered at the reception, but the event held raises the theme of the quality of Bulgarian diplomacy and its potential to exercise its official powers. Madam Minister, what does your examination show on this particular case? Why was the decision of the Bulgarian consul in Adrianople not agreed with your office to cancel the cultural program? What is the content of the speech that outraged the public, and who will bear the responsibility for this scandal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u211	Dear Madam President, Mr. Hristov, honourable Members of Parliament! The case of celebrating the national holiday in Adrianople really caused numerous comments and, as you have noted, we immediately separated ourselves from the actions of the consul general. I also asked for a written explanation of the decision to change the organization and conduct the celebration of the national holiday, as well as to state the reasons why, as you said, he did not coordinate his actions in advance either with the ambassador to our embassy in Ankara or with the central government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In his explanations, Mr. Valchev points out that on the late afternoon of March 2nd, Friday, he was informed by the Odrin district government that due to the deaths of March 1st, eight Turkish soldiers and more than 25 injured during the Afrin operation, all public events were cancelled on March 3rd. In his words, the standard conciliation procedure was not carried out due to lack of time. Some of his arguments are based on the desire to maintain the positive course of cooperation and to create good contacts with Turkish state, municipal and other structures in Adrianople and the region. The explanations have not been accepted, moreover, that in mid-February a district gram was sent with instructions, with which all consuls and consulates are paid attention that they should coordinate their public and public events with embassies in the country concerned. On 18 March the Consul General Vasil Valchev was given a strict remark. I assure you that this action will also be taken into account in his annual attestation. There were different options in which to act: it could have delayed the celebration by day, but the explanation was that the composition had already been there, the invitations had been sent and because of the short term it was very difficult to cancel the holiday given the invitations sent. Dear Mr. Hristov, it is unlikely that only the event held in Adrianople could raise the theme of the quality of Bulgarian diplomacy. Of course, there are things that can be improved. I myself am more critical of my work than perhaps most people of Bulgarian diplomacy. However, I assure you that in the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the years and now there are extremely decent and good diplomats who are worthy of Bulgaria. Every day we receive thank-you notes and gratitude for the position and at all for their work. This is about Adrianople. I hope that there will be a second time not to repeat such actions of Bulgarian diplomacy anywhere in the world not only there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u212	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u213	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Three things: First, this is a private case that reveals a common systemic problem. The Consul of the Republic of Bulgaria in Adrianople is not the Consul of the Republic of Turkey in Adrianople. This man obviously doesn't know which side he represents. He has allowed himself on the Third March holiday to honor the memory of the fallen Turkish soldiers in the Afrin operation. Apropo, we ask what Turkey is doing there, by the way, and he has left to ask to honor the memory of the fallen Russian soldiers and Bulgarian militias for our liberation from Turkish slavery? This means that this man did not just make a mistake, he was absolutely inadequate for the position and functions that he occupied there. Secondly, Adrianople is an important city for Bulgaria This town fell at exactly the same time in March, from the victorious Bulgarian army during the Balkan War in 1913. People must be sent to Adrianople who know which country they represent, what their status is and what their mission is in such sacred places! In the former capital of the Bulgarian Eastern Thrace! Your explanation is extremely unsatisfactory. I think this clerk should be relieved of his duties. Again, a private case reveals a systemic problem in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Will there be a hole, Madam Secretary? No. Colleagues, just to tell you that Minister Radev is not in Sofia right now. He is at an event in Burgas and cannot return until the end of parliamentary control today, so we will plan his call in the plenary next week. The next question is again by the MP Ivo Hristov on the policy for the development of bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Christov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u215	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I switch from the question to asking about the policy on the development of bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. Dear Minister! The reason for this question is two events. The first is the speech of the Turkish president at a party forum in the town of Sakaria, in which Mr Erdogan also mentioned the Bulgarian town of Kardzhali as part of his and the Turkish people's mental borders. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria reacted to his words briefly and, I would say, protocol. The second event is about to take place. See when I have asked you the question. The Bulgarian Prime Minister will host Mr Erdogan's meeting with European leaders in Varna! I recall that by decree of the Council of Ministers of 2006, the date 26 March was declared Thrace Day. Every year on 26 March we worship the glorious Bulgarian army and honor the memory of thousands of Thracians, refugees and the victims of Turkish genocide in Eastern, Western Thrace and Asia Minor. This year is the 105th anniversary of the capture of the Edirne fortress, one of the most glorious victories of the Bulgarian army in the Balkan War. Dear Minister, what is the policy of the Bulgarian State for the development of bilateral relations in defending our national interests, including with the introduction of the Thracian question at the past meeting in Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u216	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u217	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The policy for the development of bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey is based on the following main elements. Turkey is an immediate neighbour of Bulgaria, an ally in NATO and an important partner in areas such as migration, energy, agriculture, trade. Bulgaria's policy towards Turkey and all its neighbouring countries is based not only on the principle of good neighbourliness, mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs. A key goal in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to find the right balance in defending and realising national interests in bilateral relations with the Republic of Turkey and the European Union's single policy towards our southern neighbour. The basis for the development of relations is the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood, Cooperation and Security, signed on 6 May 1992 in Ankara. I will address only some data on trade and economic cooperation in recent times, which speaks only of itself. For the first nine months of 2017, trade with Turkey is worth nearly 3 billion euros, which is 17.4% higher compared to the same period for 2016. The bilateral Economic Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force at the beginning of 2018, will also give further impetus to cooperation in this area. However, I would not be comprehensive if I did not point out that there are a number of open issues in the relations between Bulgaria and Turkey. Our activity is, of course, devoted to them being resolved in accordance with the interests of the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian citizens. To be more specific, I will refer to the working groups that have been created on open issues under the 1992 Treaty, which I have pointed out. The negotiations on the restoration of ownership of the so-called exarchic properties in Turkey continue on reaching an agreement on the payment of the benefits due by the Turkish country under the Thracian refugees, on the implementation of the agreement signed in 1997 on the establishment of borders in the region of the Rezovska river mouth, on the solution of the issue of interference with the Bulgarian Black Sea coast caused by Turkish emissions. The above issues shall be dealt with within the Joint Panel on Unsolved Issues, which has so far held four meetings. The latter is from 18 December 2013. Some of the issues that are not included in the Joint Expert Committee, but are extremely important for Bulgaria, are: facilitating the procedure for obtaining permanent residence in Turkey of representatives of the Bulgarian business circles; optimizing and accelerating the procedure for recognition of Bulgarian higher education diplomas; finding a solution to the issues related to the functioning of the checkpoint, Captain Andreevo. The issue of Thracian refugees was once again raised in Varna, by the way, during the EU leadership meeting. The request was raised by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov of Turkish President Erdogan and myself, in my separate meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey Chavusoglu. We have agreed to proceed to the preparation of a next meeting of the Joint Expert Committee on Unsolved Issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, which will be held as soon as possible. In April 2018, the issue of delaying the specific date for holding the meeting was again a topic of conversation between representatives of the two ministries. The meetings are held in an exchange household and the next host must be the Republic of Turkey, although we proposed to them if we have to organize. At the moment, given their electoral period, you know, we are in agreement and waiting for a date for the meeting to take place. Returning the properties of the Bulgarian refugees from Eastern Thrace, Asia Minor or their compensation is a long-standing priority and, I would say, an extremely difficult issue to solve, not by accident since 1992. You see how many years, and over the years, it's really hard. On the Turkish side, as a counterclaim for compensation of the Thracian refugees, a comprehensive Bulgarian-Turkish social security agreement is being made and for the recovery of deposits of Turkey's Consulate General in Plovdiv in the bankrupt First Private Bank. Dear Mr. Hristov, because there were several questions in your questioning, I will return to the beginning, where you point out that the reason for your asking is the speech of Turkish President Erdogan at a party forum in Sakaria, where along with a number of cities not only from Europe, but from Asia, and North Africa, even mentions the Bulgarian town of Kardzhali. There is also a question raised on this subject by other colleagues of yours. I will answer you that Prime Minister Borisov asked this question personally to the Prime Minister of Turkey Erdogan. In response he received assurance that his speech does not mean any hint or claim regarding the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately came out with an official position, not from the Presidency, because the president had to answer, saying that any state with rich and long history could argue that its spiritual and cultural boundaries go beyond the physical and, we stress, that political rhetoric should avoid, although it is at a party forum and is not at an official speech, should avoid such speeches. I believe that we have taken action to protect and since then, I think that President Erdogan has not made such statements even at party forums. Thanks again. I just want to say that it is extremely important, indeed the partnership with regard to migration, Mrs. Nino touched on this issue at the beginning, Bulgaria is an external border of the European Union with a long border with Turkey. Let me remind you that yesterday Turkey unilaterally denounced the readmission agreement with the Hellenic Republic. We are trying to protect our borders together and it is not a coincidence that the pressure on the Bulgarian borders compared to Greece, compared to Italy, is not easy for our colleagues there. We strive for equal neighbourhood in non-interference in domestic politics - both we in theirs and they in ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Professor Hristov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u219	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my two questions are as follows. It is clear that relations with a regional superpower such as Turkey are complex, especially when we have a complicated history. We have a complicated present and obviously a complicated future. In this regard, the agreement on the settlement of the properties of the Thracian refugees is from 1927 and is settled thanks to the exceptional qualities of a large Bulgarian named Simeon Radev. So the questions are settled there, Madam Minister, the question is that they be fulfilled. Something that the Bulgarian country does not do, and with my great respect for the Turkish country, our relations with Turkey are football on the same door. I'm explaining it with a view to coming to the World Cup. The question is: when will the Bulgarian country and by what means will it try to impose its interests, at least for a partial compensation to our over 200,000 people from Eastern Thrace and from the region of Asia Minor.. Bursa and Canakkale? My second question: there is no informal statement when it is made by an official, in this case the Turkish President. At his party rally, and not only there, Mr Erdogan clearly showed the last such rally, if you do not know, happened in Sarajevo two weeks ago, if I am not mistaken about the ambitions of the new Turkish elite, which was created in Ankara. My question is: Bulgaria as, as you said, the first border of the European Union with an ascending Turkey, is there a long-term strategy to counteract such an ascension of Turkey? One little piece of information. Yesterday, if I am not mistaken, the Austrian chancellor closed seven mosques in Austria and consistently implemented the policy of eliminating any religious influence in Austrian Muslims. Is Bulgaria doing anything about this, looking at the next European President, Austria? Secondly, about what you said. Turkey has not only unilaterally denounced the Migration Agreement with Greece but has put its Mediterranean fleet on alert. What is Bulgaria's reaction to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u220	Thank you, Professor Hristov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u221	In fact, there were 4 questions, some of which were not of my competence. Of course, although the statement has been made supplementary, I think I responded to this, as a party leader at a party forum, it is no accident that we reacted and was made by the President of Turkey, even though it was at a party forum, it was not yet in an official election campaign. Mr. Hristov, regarding Thracian refugees. The Bulgarian government is working on a mandate given by the Council of Ministers, which is classified information. You can get acquainted with it and see details of it that has not been changed, if I am not mistaken, since 2012 with the local committee, the last time it was given. I really suggest that we set up a meeting of the Foreign Commission, where we can speak more calmly, without worrying about committing a crime and leaking classified information. On this subject, I would really like to introduce you to details and experts who have worked over the years, but let us do it at a meeting of this committee so that we can be more relaxed given that the mandate given to the negotiating group is with a classification mark. With regard to the religious rights of Bulgarian citizens, this was a very general issue, although it is not within the competence of the foreign minister, I believe that they are protected by the Bulgarian Constitution and the aspirations of the Bulgarian state should be in all temples in Bulgaria, whichever religion, not to be preached radically, in this case I am talking about Islam. It is no coincidence that you and the MPs have taken action with regard to legislative initiatives, and I think that this is the way in this direction, and not the closing of mosques in which it is also preached, my opinion is also important for education, and the place where everyone continues to receive education, I would say, clergy, whatever religion they confess and in some way control of the state. Europe has awakened. It is not just Turkey, but at all. I would say that the European Union has awakened in the last few years and a number of countries have begun to take similar actions without, of course, and we must be careful, to violate religious rights and to choose what religion to confess. From this point of view, I think the steps and directions are right. Of course, there are things that perhaps need to be refined in these laws from the point of view of violations of both our Constitution and, accordingly, conventions to which we are a party to human rights. I would say that this is a large part of Austria's policy. We've discussed it with them many times. They are not an immediate neighbour of Turkey, they do not have such a severe and long history, but I think that the steps that the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian government have taken in terms of control for funding, control for education, because it is very important where they are educated anyway. You know, we had a case about radical Islam in Pazardzhik. This was not about Turkey, but these are disturbing things and I think this is the direction in which the Bulgarian state should act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u222	Thank you. Professor Hristov, you have the floor to express your attitude towards the answers received.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u223	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I am not a naive middle-aged person and have no illusions that within 10 or 15 minutes, a half-empty hall can be debated in depth one such problem as Bulgaria's Bulgarian-Turkish relations at the beginning of the 20th 21st century. However, as a senior political and state body of the country, we must clearly say that this is one of the problems that will deepen over the years. What causes me great concern is the lack of any adequate reaction, senses and awareness of the sharpness of this problem, its dynamics and its dialectics, if you will. Secondly, if we have to learn from someone how to react in this situation "You said that this was not Austria, although Austria showed Europe in 1687 if you did not know. If we need to learn how to work as immediate neighbours and yet a member of the European Union, I strongly recommend Greece's experience in Western Thrace, and that, given that Greece has a far more serious problem, expressing that the Turkish and Muslim minority in Western Thrace and in the Greek part of the Rhodopes is protected by the so-called Lozan peace treaty. So they have special rights there. The Greek government has not, for a second, no matter what type of government is there, either left, right, centre, junta, such as the one of the.............................. the colonels have not deviated from the Yota......... that Greek national interests should be protected, that in the form of religious training should be introduced imams from Turkey and thus bring Turkish political influence. That is, to clearly distinguish religious issues from political matters. I realize, of course, that this is impossible for a country such as Bulgaria, which is located, to put it mildly, not in my best condition for the last 120 years, but I also realize that if we do not take definitive measures, something for which I do not see will and understanding, I warn: this will have extremely severe consequences in the medium-term perspective. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u224	Thank you, Professor Hristov. The next question is from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreev and Lalo Kirilov and is about the reaction and the measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the occasion of a speech by the President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Erdogan, concerning the population and territory within the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Stoyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u225	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On 11 March this year, in the town of Sakaria in northwestern Turkey, Turkish President Recep Erdogan said in his speech, "I want to congratulate our brothers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia, Serbia, Western Thrace, Crimea, Bulgaria and Romania personally on behalf of the Turkish people. We send our greetings to all our suffering and oppressed brothers in Sarajevo, in Skopje, Xanthi, Komotini, Kardzhali and Mostar. We share the warmth of these brothers, whose souls and eyes are turned to Turkey, to them who pray for Turkey's success. These cities are actually located in other countries, but they are part of our spiritual boundaries. Turkey's essence does not fit at 780 thousand. kv. km. This is another statement by the Turkish Head of State concerning the population and territories within the Republic of Bulgaria, which caused a strong negative response in our country. On the occasion of this speech three months ago, we asked you the following question: how does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria assess the above-mentioned statement of the Turkish President? What is the reaction of the Ministry, respectively of the Bulgarian State on the occasion of this speech and what measures have been taken to prevent other such statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u226	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u227	Dear Vice-President! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, Mr. Andreyev, Mr. Kirilov, I think in the previous questions I had the opportunity to answer that question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responding immediately. This is a second such such a statement, by the way, within the last two years and little. In both cases, the Ministry reacted. The statement is public, it's on the Ministry's website. In fact, one statement was December... with regard to the Lausanne Treaty, and the other was March month, as you mentioned. In both cases, the Ministry reacted immediately with a statement and, I would say, with a clear position that this is unacceptable and unacceptable to us. I have already informed you that at the meeting of the Prime Minister on 26 March 2018 with President Erdogan, the Prime Minister also raised this question and received assurances from President Erdogan that this does not concern real borders at all and Turkey has no territorial claims. So at the moment of the election campaign he is running, President Erdogan has not made such a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here's a line, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u229	Mr. Vice-President, Madame Minister! Thank you for answering our question, although this is two and a half months after the deadline for reply under art. 96 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will not be concerned about what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in relation to the speech of the President of the Republic of Turkey, so as not to complicate the subtle moves of Bulgarian diplomacy, which I have just found out about. I would just like to say, on the occasion of your answer: "God protect Bulgaria!."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u230	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Would you like to use the back? No. We move on to the next question by the MPs Veska Nencheva and Violeta Jeleva regarding the grave of St. George. Constantine-Cyril Philosopher. Mrs. Zheleva, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we expected that you would not answer us a week after asking the question, we expected that you would not answer us in two weeks due to your busy program because of the Presidency of Bulgaria, but we expected that you would at least give us an answer about 24 May, not almost three months after the introduction of our question. About the question. To go to Rome and not to see the Pope a familiar phrase, and for the Bulgarians we can paraphrase it like this: to go to Rome and not bow to the grave of St. Constantine-Cyril Philosopher. The place of Constantine-Cyril Philosopher in the Bulgarian memory is undoubtedly. The creation and preservation of Slavic writing is the basis for the Bulgarian identity. If Methodius' grave is suspected of where he is, then of the relics of St. Cyril Philosopher, we're sure they're in the basilica of San Clemente in Rome. But nowhere in the basilica or in its courtyard is there an inscription, an information sign or any information that it contains the relics of St. Cyril Philosopher. Every Bulgarian asks respect for the brothers who gave us the word. My question to you is: what are the options and will you take action so that the grave of St. George's. Konstantin-Cyril Philosopher to receive his corresponding attitude from the Bulgarian state in order to be recognizable and easily accessible landmark as a symbol of Slavic writing in Rome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u233	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Nencheva, Mrs. Zheleva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I have tried to understand exactly what you want to ask, because in the question itself you correctly say that everyone knows where the grave is and I assure you that there is no Bulgarian who will visit Rome and not go there. I'll read what my colleagues have prepared, trying to figure out what you really want. I can say that for decades our state's respectable attitude to the so important place of worship in the St. Paul's work. Constantine-Cyril Philosopher expressed himself through annual visits. I am speaking at the state level, you know, Parliament, President, Prime Minister, during rotation with Bulgarian priests and clergy for a year there were actually no priests in the delegation of the Bulgarian President, if I am not mistaken last year, and also prominent people of art, culture, science, writing honors the grave of St. Cyril. The most recent example of the attitude of the Bulgarian state towards the holy place is the general worship of the prime ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Republic of Macedonia Boyko Borisov and Zoran Zaev and their delegations as part of the consistent policy of the government for friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation with the neighbouring country. The Basilica of San Clemente in the Vatican, including the tomb of the Slavic apostle, is the subject of the care of Irish fathers of the Dominican Catholic Order, who have been managing and managing the basilica since 1677. I would like to assure you that the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Rome and in the Vatican are in constant contact with the Order and do whatever it takes. I have witnessed this, for maintaining and accessing this sacred place for every Bulgarian. Thanks to the contacts of Bulgarian diplomacy the Prior of Basilica Thomas McCarthy not only fully cooperates in the visits of the Bulgarian official delegations from Bulgarian schools in Bulgaria and Italy, as well as the ordinary visiting groups, but also as a rule personally greets Bulgarian pilgrims with great warmth and understanding. The basilica itself and the grave are part of the main tourist sites of the Eternal City and their recognizability is ensured to the maximum extent. In the last decades, the space around St. George's grave has been around. Cyril is covered with commemorative tablets that mark his spiritual significance. The central icon above the grave is placed by the Bulgarian state and bears an inscription in Bulgarian. The whole wall against the sarcophagus is a monumental mosaic pano with the images of Cyril and Methodius in all growth. It is also built by the Bulgarian state and bears an inscription in Bulgarian: The Slavic educators Kiril and Methodius of the grateful Bulgarian people. This further highlights the importance of the Thessaloniki brothers' case for the Bulgarian national identity. Any additional actions by the Bulgarian state in this direction should be authorised by the higher administrative structures of the Holy See. Perhaps we should put in more plates, or I do not know, if there is a need and appropriateness justified by the competent institutions, which we do not believe is present at the moment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the preservation and maintenance of this sacred place is entirely in the spirit of the centuries-old built and jealously guarded Italian and Vatican tradition of preserving the authenticity of archaeological and historical artifacts. In this tradition is the foreign reflex to create, for example, the memorials of the Asian mausoleum type, as we are used to seeing in other parts of the world. The general condition of the crypt is unchanged in the last century and the maintenance of the grave space is of an extremely high level thanks to the care of the Irish Dominican brothers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In Italian and Vatican museum culture, authenticity is important. This attitude is strictly codified in the Code of Cultural Heritage and the landscape of 2011. Therefore, any attempts by our country to bring in some additional solemnity and glamour would not only be unnecessary, but certainly would not have been accepted by local institutions. So the outside of the basilica guide signs are placed by the Roman municipality and are identical to those placed at any other central for Rome historical archaeological site. I assure you, I have been to this grave several times, and in the basilica they are maintained wonderfully, very visiblely, given the signs and the panata I mentioned, the place of the Bulgarian state and the connection are visible and arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u235	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I listened very carefully to your answer, and yet at the end of your response the thread of what you had to do as an institution has flashed. I'm glad you've been to St. George's grave several times. Cyril in the basilica. It's a very simple situation. This is not about delegations being made at the state level. Here we are talking about the common Bulgarian, the common Slavic speaker who is a tourist, visits the Eternal City, sees the famous Colosseum and only 300 meters from one of the entrances of the Colosseum is located the Basilica San Clemente where the bones, the mortal remains, the relics of our great saint, who is canonized by the Orthodox and Catholic Church as a saint and the equal apostle, and on December 30, 1980 Pope John Paul II declared both the brothers to be co-conspirators of Europe. Orthodox Christians also worship him as one of the holy sevenfolds. In addition to his being our scribe, the father of our Slavic letter, Kiril is a diplomat. In all his eight missions, I also mean the Bregalnic mission, he defends the right of Christianity. Did not the Bulgarian contemporary diplomacy manage to make it possible to put a sign from the entrance of the Colosseum or near the entrance of the Colosseum, which would indicate the way of the Slavic speakers to worship the basilica of San Clemente, where are the mortal remains of our saint Cyril. We do not want to talk about glamour because what he has done with his work obliges us to make an effort and get at least one Cyrillic sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u236	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mrs. Minister for the doppelganger, come in. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u237	In this way, you will also get a specific answer. I do not know that there is a single Slavic language, but if it is the Bulgarian language and signposts in Bulgarian, I will assign our embassy there to talk with the Roman municipality and see what is the possibility of placing signs in Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u238	Thank you. I think a commitment has been made, and that's good. We are going to ask the MP Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Kolyo Milev, Nikola Dinkov and Nikolay Penev about the compensation of the Thracian refugees. Here you are, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u239	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Unfortunately, Madam Minister, I will join these colleagues who are talking about delaying the nature of the questions and questions made to you and your ministry. Our question has been aged for over two months. For example, I would like to point out to you ministries which are literally in line with the next parliamentary control. So I'd like to draw your attention. Madam Minister, recently the statements of members of the government and personally of the Bulgarian Prime Minister about close relations between our government have created the impression of Mr. Borisov and Mr. Erdogan, the President of the Republic of Turkey, talking about similar policies, common interests and so on. The main issue concerning a significant part of Bulgarian citizens is the compensation of those who were forced to leave their homes in Eastern Thrace, Adrianople. Our question is that Mr. Borisov again on information from the media asked Mr. Erdogan, but it was not clear what he had answered. Our question to you is: what is the strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the compensation of the Thracian refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u240	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Madam Minister, in the procedure you have the opportunity to respond within five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u241	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am glad that your interest in Thracian refugees is indeed great. I want to assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been trying for years to resolve this issue. BSP has had two, three ministers over the years and perhaps four of whom signed this treaty in 1992 and I am convinced that they are expert enough and can better inform you what is the reason for the so difficult solution of the issue. Yes, the Prime Minister raised this issue specifically for Thracian refugees. I just had the opportunity to list other open issues that exist between the two countries. That won't be decided on a date. If it were that easy and our positions were so close, it would have been decided by now. We agreed, and we insisted on finally putting together this fifth committee because there were only four before that. Unfortunately, the Republic of Turkey has a completely different view from the Republic of Bulgaria. In 1998, three rounds of negotiations were held with the Turkish side, without a positive development for Bulgaria, mainly due to the radically different positions of the two countries. By 2008, the subject had been raised repeatedly in bilateral visits at all levels. From 1998 to 2008, there were no committees at all. Then he managed the BSP in coalition, if I am not mistaken, since 2005. Only in 2008 a Joint Committee on these unresolved issues was established, which held a meeting on them again. Again, I stress that the lack of progress is due to the fact that the Turkish side has a radically different view. I will not explain long and wide, but I still think it is important that the most significant gap in the events of Eastern Thrace and Asia Minor, Ankara does not even accept that the Treaty of 1925 uses the term refugee. She claims that these were voluntary exiles and were compensated at the time. This is definitely not the position of the Bulgarian side and we, with all legal arguments over the years, have refuted this statement. Also an important issue is the counterclaims which I would not like to comment on outside the context of the negotiations, but you may find in the mandate of the Mixed Commission in question, which is classified information, but you have access and any one of you can have access to this mandate. These meetings have not been held in the fifth year. In the period 2013 - 2018, the Turkish side postponed the fifth meeting. I listed three since 1998 and one from 2008. When we met, except that the Prime Minister raised the issue and they agreed in principle the two foreign ministers to work, I explicitly insisted that this expert meeting would finally take place, there is no way to clear these strictly expert issues at another level. So we expect a date, the place at the time is Turkey. I assure you that we will continue to work and make every effort on this injustice to find some positive development. There are experts from almost all ministries, because the issue is indeed complicated and there are several other issues, but what the Ministry is really looking for is a national consensus, I hope it is necessary at least on this issue, not to throw accusations at what has not been done over the years, but what we can do together and at all levels, because there are also quite intense contacts with the parliament of the Republic of Turkey, to put this issue with one vote. Otherwise, you know that there the period for benefits is divided into two periods until 1945 and after 1945 until 1989. You know that the problem is the lack, unfortunately, except for the dispute of a refugee or an expatriate, the dispute over the inability, unfortunately, they are refugees, it is normal, there is no way to present notary acts or some documents of property. These are the arguments with which the Turkish side is dating. We say that even if there are no documents, there is sufficient evidence from another type that can indicate exactly or at least comparative boundaries of what their lands were. So I really suggest if you have more interest, because I see that this interests BSP [[the President signals that time has run out]] , together to join forces and to have a perhaps discussion in the External Committee, where we can give some more details of the negotiations so far and the differences in positions and, respectively, the government's mandate of 2012, if I am not mistaken, classified information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The importers of the questioning have the opportunity to ask two additional questions. Mr. Yordanov, are you going to set them up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u243	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Madam Minister, you are absolutely right as regards the political part of such an agreement, however, I personally believe that we are not ready to clarify our claims to the Turkish side. In your reply, you rightly said that it is quite difficult to establish, since there are generations that we would like to compensate, but they are already closed, they have no living heirs. Recently, claims have appeared in the media, which are of angro, as the Bulgarian people say, ranging from 5 billion to 20 billion. That means we don't have an exact amount for our claims. Soon came out a volume that summarized the Thracian question historically and the necessary benefits for Adrianople Thrace and there the amounts that are officially mentioned as a request for compensation are much smaller, I don't even know if they will reach 5 billion, I think there are fewer. That is why I am thinking, and that is why I am asking you the question of your strategy for the benefits of Thracian refugees. We first need to know as a state what we want as sums to put them on the table of negotiations. Unfortunately, the amount will really be less, because some of those people who claim compensation, I repeat, are no longer there, they can't figure it out. This can happen and I recommend you with the active activity of the Union of Thracian companies as an organisation that covers a significant part of those people who would have claims. And secondly, a very important question: You know, although you have touched on it in your reply that the Turkish side always says: "We want personal claims from the people who claim compensation to turn to the Turkish system and make their personal demands. Unfortunately, people who claim compensation are already quite old and cannot cope with the Turkish system, especially that there is a language problem. So my recommendation is, and we would like, as a representative of the Union of Thracian companies, to clarify the claims of the people we can reach and make a collective claim with the active assistance of the state. I assure you that this is not about such huge benefits that we are talking about, especially in the context of what is happening in our region, it will not be such a large amount, and these people could find some compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u244	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have this opportunity to answer the two questions, one in size, the other in the way that the claims are to be claimed individually or collectively, so I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u245	I will agree with everything you've said. There's a few problems. I also did not affect the Turkish country's call to make individual claims. I said for a reason that this is a really complicated and expert issue, and it is not bad to discuss it in the Commission. This is one of the proposals that the Bulgarian side strongly rejects for the reasons you said, but this will be infinity. Imagine so many thousands of people... Our goal, the strategy, has really been together, to decide in general, and we are already here to distribute the property. You are right that all amounts are heard from 5 billion, to 10 billion, to 6 billion, what we have read in the media. Unfortunately, most of them do not have documents, and there are those who have been able to supply themselves in some way over the years, so it is precisely a matter of calculation, of agreements. I think that over the years and colleagues have been in contact with the Association, but I am ready to really meet the experts, because it is not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is also the Finance Ministry, because they are different open issues, with the expert group on our part, and to have a discussion. I agree with you, the approach to an individual claim should not be accepted, it is not working.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the extra answer. Would you like to take an attitude? We're closing the questioning procedure. Thank you. We move on to a question from the MPs Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev. It's about the security and security of our Consulate General in Munich. Who's going to develop the question? Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Our question is related to the administrative and technical security of our Consulate General in Munich. Our question is short, because it is only one example, and I really hope that in the answer that we will hear from you, we will not get any blank explanation that the particular problem is solved. You know well that the problem in Munich is not an isolated case. According to our information, there are similar problems in Copenhagen, Frankfurt, and possibly elsewhere. I would only recall that a few years ago the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the first cabinet of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov sold in Munich an extremely attractive property which could undoubtedly be used for the purposes of our Consulate General in Munich. It is obvious that the problems we are talking about are primarily related to poor governance in the recent years of some of our diplomatic representations, it is obvious that there have been systematic errors in property management in a number of diplomatic missions that compromise our diplomatic service and our country to foreign partners. That's why I expect a more detailed answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u248	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u249	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Danchev, Mr. Vitanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I'll be honest with you. Yes, the problems at the Munich Consulate General are not missing, it is. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been repeatedly alerted over the years to administrative and technical problems. I will not comment on the actions of the previous managements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I will point out that one of the reasons, of course, is the budget of the Ministry, but certainly cannot be just that justification. At the beginning of the year I have personally ordered a check from which the results, obviously you have them, to cover the activities of the Consulate General for the last two years, a comprehensive check to include property. Some findings of the verification are disturbing. By June 1st, two employees and one resident worked at the Consulate General. In support of the ministry, I have ordered three more people to be posted immediately, so I have strengthened the service with three people because there are really many people serving in this service and serving with two people was absurd, so there are three more. In the implementation of the findings of the Technical Security and Security Inspectorate, immediate activities have been carried out to install technical means improving the security of the Consulate General. The new equipment is fully aligned and meets the highest security standards. Repair activities will be carried out to improve the material and technical base. You know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not the owner of the building itself, and we are currently waiting for permission from the owner to carry out a reconstruction because we have plans to expand the premises in the visitor area another service window will be opened. In other words, the renovation is really serious, it is large-scale, it cannot be done without the consent of the owner and the permits for the municipalities respectively. The procedure is underway. In addition, to the large volume of consular work, Munich officials have obligations in relation to development, deepening of political, commercial, economic and other relations with the province of Bavaria and Baden-Wurttemberg. We must not forget that Bulgaria has a long-standing partnership with the two provinces under the Permanent Mixed Commission Bulgaria I would also like to thank the staff of the Consulate General, who, despite the difficult conditions, I think, have done their duties well. Not only in this consulate, we also have a plan to repair 20 programs services, started replacing the system, replacing the computers, the equipment, the cameras, in general, we really need to create normal working conditions for the consular services.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u250	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vitanov, are you going to pick up a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, colleagues! I was hoping the answer wasn't blank, but, alas, I'm disappointed. You mentioned that by June 1st there were only two employees and one resident. I would like to ask what their functions are and is one of these employees not the chauffeur of the consul general? One more thing strikes me as a matter of fact, I think you have mentioned that since June 1st you have made a procedure for hiring new people, I hope and I do not know whether this has been in response to our questions, but I would also like to ask: how long have these people been posted in total and each one of them separately? I am also happy for the security measures, for the new technique that you include, but we must not forget that diplomatic representation and counters there are housed in car garages. I would also like to take part in your thanks to the people who, obviously at the cost of immense efforts, manage to do their job, although this often reflects on their health. But I did not find out from your answer whether you intend to appoint a new consul general, or do you think that such a position in the largest German province in which more than 85,000 Bulgarians live is pointless? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u252	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u253	Yeah, I answered that, and I don't think my answer was blank, my assessment is making it you, very specifically told you what I found. On my orders, the inspection was carried out, and those employees who worked there, and some of them left, were actually longtime ministers in the Consular Office. I would say that one of the reasons for the poor condition of the consular services is the work of the people at the Consular Office in Sofia, because they are the people who have to take care of it when they receive dozens of requests and, of course, proposals whether for repairs, whether for new equipment, whether to improve the work, still be so good to respond and respond. In fact, as a result of the inspection of the Inspectorate, there were many measures to be taken. Again, on my request, this inspection has been carried out. You know, it's a tough situation out there. The building is for rent, many renovations and activities have been carried out in it and the plan is to expand another one-stop shop. The consul general will be sent within two months, the coordination procedure is under way. Of course you need a consul general, I agree with you completely here. This service should be permanently strengthened at all.... whether with more local people, whether with the people we have sent, both are possible. The truth is that Bulgaria is not such a rich country and we need to take an example from other countries, which many, many enjoy the status of local people. Of course, there are specific countries in which this status cannot be used, but in a country such as Germany, there is no problem in using them for consular officers who serve at a counter. We have enough of our fellow citizens there who live and speak Bulgarian and could be used as locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u254	The next question to Minister Zaharieva is from the MP Petar Vitanov on a proposal for Honorary Consul of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and ladies ministers, colleagues! The next question I asked was because I came across a very disturbing article in April that for an honorary consul of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia was offered a rich, perhaps richest, Macedonian businessman with a very controversial reputation called Yordan Kamchev. My question in this case is: what are the motives of Yordan Kamchev for a proposal for an honorary consul of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia and how will this proposal have a positive impact on improving Bulgaria's authority? I ask this question for a reason because, as far as I know, Mr. Kamchev has never given any indication of an attachment to the Bulgarian cause, he is also not related to the protection of the rights of the Bulgarians in Macedonia. I dare say that a negative cautious reaction from the Bulgarian community in Macedonia followed. A little more reference for Mr. Kamchev is probably also quite disturbing, he is the owner of a large media holding company MBM "Media Print Macedonia" which publishes a series of newspapers: "Utrin newspaper", "Vest", "Dnevnik", which are characterized by their anti-Bulgarian rhetoric. A few months ago, this holding went bankrupt, with Mr. Kamchev leaving over 400 journalists out of work. This actually provokes my question, which I also expect an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u256	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u257	Dear Mr. Vice-President, dear Mr. Vitanov! Since the signing of the Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation Treaty, a radically different atmosphere has been created. Of course, there is much to be done, but some of the fears and prejudices of the past have fallen away. Only until less than eight or nine months ago was it impossible for a Macedonian citizen, a businessman, a public figure, an intellectual to wish to be an honorary consul of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia. You know this very well because against him the entire repressive machine would be used. At the same time, we need to take advantage of the global diplomatic practice of revealing the Institute of Honorary Consulate. You know that this will help bilateral relations for their entire scope in places where we do not have consular services, it is not possible for the state everywhere to endure and reveal such. In this sense, the good practices and the idea of Mr. Kamchev as an recognizable person as you said yourself, both in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Republic of Macedonia, could only be useful to Bulgaria. Yeah, it's one of the richest of the richest, at least for 2016 for a magazine called "Forbes" in the Republic of Macedonia. There is no truth to the allegations that Mr. Kamchev was appointed as an honorary consul. In Bulgaria, he has gone through checks at our offices and in order to start the procedure for approval of an honorary consul, permission from the host country is required. We've sent a note and we're waiting for an answer. So publications, if you notice exactly who publishes the note we asked for and the entire campaign to stop this at all, the biggest employer, the biggest Bulgarian owner of the media, there are certainly circles in the Republic of Macedonia that are not very happy with the appointment of such an honorary consul. We are aware of the conflicting publications about Mr. Kamchev and I assure you that if there is any action on his part to violate the spirit and letter of the Treaty of Good Neighborhood or the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, I will personally be the first to take action. But for the Consular District, you know that the municipalities of Stip, Delchevo, Berovo and so on came out and the note in their media, the truth is that there are obviously undesirables there. These circles published the Macedonian note. It is an interesting fact that against this candidacy in Macedonia united among the most anti-Bulgarian positions. So it is certainly important, and if there are really doubts, we are ready to reconsider here. By passing the checks, everything was fine. I think it is important to have an honorary consul who really has strong positions and who really supports the Republic of Bulgaria. I will only inform you that he is president of the formation of Ilia Kamchev who patronizes various cultural events. The Foundation will finance the tour of the Bulgarian Army in six cities in the Republic of Macedonia with the production of the Iron Lamp by Dimitar Talev in the period 11 June 2018, i.e. on Monday. This foundation finances and I think you understand how symbolic it is. The Iron Lamp of Dimitar Talev in six cities in the Republic of Macedonia will begin in Skopje on the 11th.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u258	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The truth is that this publication I read in an online page "Sakam to say" so I want to tell you that I did not really understand the reasons for the choice of Mr. Kamchev specifically, except that he is very wealthy, which you confirmed. But another motive, another argument and another criterion I didn't understand. I would therefore like to ask you: who is this Macedonian with a Bulgarian self-awareness, honored with such a high honor, to be practically the second person after the Bulgarian ambassador? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u260	Would you like to complete the answer? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u261	I've listed what they are. He is known in Bulgaria and Macedonia, one of the richest Bulgarians, a great employer. I mentioned earlier that he is the president of the foundation Ilia Kamchev who patronizes various cultural events. The foundation will finance the theater as well. But let me explain to you what an honorary consul is, because it's obviously not clear. Nothing like being second to the ambassador. [[Reply from MP Petar Vitanov.]] No, it does not represent the Bulgarian state. What's he doing? He must assist the Honorary Consul of the Convention, to improve economic, trade, cultural relations; to assist Bulgarian citizens who are in the territory of the country concerned, to assist them, to promote Bulgarian culture, spirituality and so on and so forth. That is, to work to improve basic economic, cultural and other relations between the two countries. So that's the job. They do not represent or express the Bulgarian foreign policy or the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u262	Thank you. There is a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Dora Yankova concerning mandatory written coordination of international initiatives of municipalities with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! Our question with colleague Iankova is related to a letter-ordering of the Minister of Foreign Affairs for coordination of all international initiatives of municipalities with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you, as a person who has repeatedly held responsible management positions in the Republic of Bulgaria, are more than logical to be familiar with the legal regulation on which the Bulgarian municipalities work. The constitutional and legal powers of the Bulgarian municipalities, some of which are enshrined in the European Charter for Local Self-government of the Council of Europe, give carte blanche to local communities to cooperate with communities from other countries, and this is a valuable process that we have seen for decades. Separately, the Local Government and Local Administration Act categorizes this right and the real opportunity of citizens and local government bodies to solve individual local issues, including the nature of international cooperation initiatives. That's why our question is this: what provoked your letter, ex. No 06-00-58, from 5 April 2018, addressed through regional administrations to all Bulgarian municipalities whose text imperative orders initiatives of international cooperation of municipalities, including the setting of memorable plates or twinning with foreign cities, to be agreed in writing and specifically with the political cabinet of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria? What are the reasons that provoked such an order of yours and are there any arguments by which you would defend your decision against an accusation that the same is an offence against the constitutionally guaranteed local government in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u264	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u265	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The quoted letter, which is signed by my deputy, by the way, does not matter, I am responsible for everything that is happening in the Ministry, although I would say that the tone really sounds imperative, and I myself would not sign the letter in this form, in any case it is not intended to put under any doubts or restrictions the constitutional and legal powers of the Bulgarian municipalities. Including cooperating with local authorities in a foreign country. On the contrary, no matter how many meetings I attend, I myself tell the foreign ministers that we must assist our municipalities to connect and carry out brotherly or other activities. At the same time, I would like to tell you that at meetings that I have been to with the Bulgarian community, many times have asked me why this memorial plate is placed or this monument of one person in different places from Bulgaria and what is the policy of the Bulgarian government because it is about foreign policy. I can't answer that because many times I don't know what slab connects to a person with foreign policy at all and I can't answer it. In any case, it is important in my opinion because the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria is implemented by the Council of Ministers and everyone has the powers of the National Assembly and the President. I think that the idea of this letter was coordination, in no case the permission to coordinate between the official positions that Bulgaria expresses. In no case is it imperative, in no case did he want to intervene in the powers of the municipalities, you know how much I respect the National Association of Municipalities, how many times even things that are not required in my different positions, I have insisted that they be agreed with the National Association of Municipalities and legislative initiatives and other things, but the issue is that, according to constitutional understanding, foreign policy is carried out in accordance with the principles and rules of international law and its purpose is an effective realization of the foreign policy objectives of national interests. That's the only purpose. I don't see anything wrong with that, I'm still saying that the letter should really sound different. I fully agree with you here. The Ministry of Interior should have information, we help them for a reason and in most cases the municipalities themselves want to coordinate with us. In fact, the truth is that I can list a number of examples in which municipalities and regional governors sought assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and received it. I can mention, for example, cases and good practices for good interaction. I will point out the latest example of effective interaction between the Ministry of Interior and the authorities that on 1 February 2018, the Municipal Council in Ardino decided to sign a bilateral agreement on co-operation with the municipality of Jenny Boazici in the so-called Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Northern Cyprus is not recognised by anyone, I think from Bulgaria as well. We have cases in Crimea. They signed it, made a decision and, according to international law, the signing of such an agreement means the tacit recognition of the existing state in question, the idea of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Thanks to the timely communication between us and the regional governor of Kardzhali, Mr. Nikola Chanev, we helped the local authorities to come out of this difficult decision and situation in which it had put itself. I'm giving you one of the examples that obviously dictated this letter. Rather than trying to find a way to get out of a situation together, such as the situation in Ardino with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, signed and made a decision by the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u266	Thank you. Mr. Genov, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u267	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as much as you don't believe me, I will admit that with my question I tried to help you get out of the confuse with this letter, in which you really scandalously put all Bulgarian municipalities. In the case of Ardino and the North Cypriot Republic, there is. Since it is a foreign policy of municipalities, why are these rights given to them and replaced by Constitution and by the Law on Local Self-government? You could have otherwise asked them for some information or coordination. I want something else. I gave you the opportunity from this high tribune to apologize to the Bulgarian mayors, to the Bulgarian presidents of municipal councils and to all local authorities. For more than a month and a half on the website of the Association of Municipalities there is a protest letter - response, namely the letter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I really expected from this tribune you to find a way and use it as an occasion and action, to be able, I say once again, to apologize to the Bulgarian municipalities, because you really put them in a messy position, even more so for the regional governors to play the role of couriers between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and municipal administrations. Admit the mistake, do not prolong this absurdity, because the bitterness lies with the Bulgarian mayors and local communities. I would like to give you another example: a neighbouring republic has banned all municipalities of this country from ending their contractual relations with the Bulgarian municipalities, which have voted for the recognition of Armenian genocide. I think that, as part of Europe, we are seeking European principles and cannot take an example from our neighbouring country, thus applying their actions and these requirements. Control the interparliamentary contacts of the Bulgarian Parliament on this same logic. You will probably also consider the interparliamentary contacts to be an international policy. Yes, it is an international policy, but parliament has independence, like Bulgarian municipalities, to decide and create friendship groups, contacts, relationships. I assume that after the final of our European Presidency, you have met with many diplomats, I have no claim as colleagues that you are replying to me late and you appear here, you have obviously been busy, you will make an album with all diplomats, and God forbid these diplomats would have seen this letter because they would have been otherwise impressed by the management of the Bulgarian state and its attitude towards local authorities. The goal is yours. You're on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u268	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u269	Mr. Genov, I said for a reason that the letter was not signed by me, but I, as Minister, bear all responsibility. I wouldn't sign that letter, and that wasn't his goal at all. I told you for a reason and this letter will be corrected in the speech. That wasn't the point at all, but it was to have coordinated action. If they need assistance, get it on time when they have doubts. I basically gave one of the cases, which apparently provoked colleagues to prepare such a letter, and the language in it is really inappropriate and does not say what is actually the purpose of such a letter. It is also not through the district executives here I agree with you purely administratively, the way to send this letter from the National Association of Municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u270	Thank you. That was the last question, Mrs. Zaharieva, to you. Mrs. Zaharieva's participation in the Justice Reform Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs ended with this response. Thank you for your participation. We move on to a question, and it is the only one, to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva concerning the House for Elderly People with Mental Disorders in the village of Radovets, Topolovgrad municipality, Haskovo district. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Petkov, our question is about the home for elderly people with mental disorders, which is located on the territory of the village of Radovets, Topolovgrad municipality, Haskovo district. Dear Minister, over 90 people are taken care of in this house in the village of Radovets. These people are promiscuously moving around the village, entering people's houses, taking objects and doing inappropriate acts. The people who live there are very concerned. This conversation with them we made during a meeting, as MPs. Ten years ago, the house was surrounded by a stable fence and a portal, leaving and entering it was controlled. We understand that these are free people, but we still need to make certain investments and create a corresponding order in this office. However, given the demographic crisis in this area and small employment, the functioning of this home for this area is very important. Besides, the village of Radovets is one of the biggest in Sakar Mountains. With all this in mind, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what measures will the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take to resolve this painful issue for local residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u272	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Jeleva! Dear Mr. Dinkov, according to the Social Assistance Act the social services in the Republic of Bulgaria are decentralised and their management is entrusted to the mayors of the respective municipalities. In the present case, the mayor of Topolovgrad manages the social services within the municipality, which are delegated by the State local activities and is responsible for meeting the standards and criteria for social services, including staff, as well as employer of the managers of these services. In this regard, its commitment is to ensure the optimal structure of staff and personnel security of the service. On the other hand, the Director of the House for Minors with Psychiatric Disorders in the village of Radovets as employer of the staff of the special institution is obliged to exercise systematic control in respect of the respect of employment and financial discipline by the employees of the House, as well as to impose penalties on the detected infringements. Specialized institutions under the Social Assistance Act are retirement-type homes where people are separated from their home environment. They carry out activities in support of persons for social inclusion and a separate lifestyle based on social work, which is essentially a complex of supporting activities aimed at achieving a better quality of life, dignity and responsibility in people, based on their individual abilities, interpersonal relations and community resources. Despite the planned upcoming closure of the institution in the village of Radovets, conditions have been created for service meeting the daily social and therapeutic needs of consumers. Accommodation in a specialised institution does not restrict consumers in terms of their free movement and opportunities for the organisation of their free time, their personal contacts, according to their choice and support of staff, which is in line with the standards and criteria for providing social services laid down in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. Limiting consumer movements would be contrary to national and international provisions concerning free movement and respect for the rights and merits of disabled people. I would like to inform you that by Decision No 28 of 19 January 2018, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted an Action Plan for the period 2018 - 2021 for the implementation of the National Strategy for Long-term Care, which follows the understanding that the deinstitutionalization of care for elderly people and people with disabilities is aimed at developing a network of services in the community and in the home environment in order to ensure an independent and dignified life and their full inclusion in society and covers the measures for the first stage of the implementation of the process of deinstitutionalization of adults. Topolovgrad Municipality is included in the map of resident services for the construction of four centers for the care of people with mental disorders, which will provide the necessary support for the users who will be taken out of the center in the village of Radovets. In this regard, Order No RD-01-0349 of 9 March this year of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance has been suspended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you are, Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! It's a delicate subject, and we seem to avoid commenting on it. The problem is very serious and extremely worrying not only for me and not just for the people of this population. Therefore, in the line I will allow myself to comment on the issue as a whole at national level. As you said, some of the homes for people with mental disabilities and mental disorders are about to be closed down. Ten homes are to be shut down. The first five are in Razdol, Zabernovo, Radovtsi, Lakatnik and Radovets village, which we specifically comment on. Here in the answer I regret not hearing whether you are committed to whether the material base is normal to have normal operating mode. I think you'll do it anyway. The problem is that until the new centres you mentioned are built, according to the National Strategy for Long-term Care, these homes will be built within three years. I don't think it's normal until they're built that the material base of most mentally ill homes is extremely bad. I can bravely say that most are in ruin. That is why I want to stress this problem as a whole for all the homes in the country. The other, yes, will reveal new centers, some of them. Most of these people, however, need a full - time care for 24 hours. In these five houses that will be removed are accommodated 404 people according to my information; 207 are waiting to be accommodated. I believe that a large number of people will remain outside these homes, which will be built.. daycare centers or other centers to support these people. It's an extremely big problem. Another problem I would like to stress in my reply is that, as my colleague said earlier, this is an area of tangible depopulation. The unemployment rate is very high there. When these centres are shut down, the workforce, which is now, I am very worried that it will not be reassigned to other homes. Here I want you to really seriously answer us what exactly is to come about this area? When will they be built? We're used to hearing promises for three years, four years, but there's no specifics. The problem with people who will stay out of these homes is very big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, you can answer further questions in your jacket. Please specify the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, when preparing the first plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Deinstitutionalization or for Long-term Care, as is the exact name, measures were included aimed mainly at this group of people with disabilities who suffer from mental disorders, mental retardation and so on. As you pointed out, there are actually the largest number of people waiting there. 10 institutions are provided for closure. Within the three years for which the first plan is signed, 100 new social services will be built. Some of them will be of a resident type, as mentioned centers for the care of persons with mental disorders in the village of Radovets. Others will be respectively support services, day centers and so on, i.e. there will be a combination between 24-hour care and daily services. With regard, in particular, to the implementation of this plan, I stress again, the main financing of the measures provided for therein is with the funds from the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" under the so-called soft measures, i.e. training of staff and so on. With regard to the very construction of these services, the funding is intended to be from the Operational Programme. The procedure has already been opened, the municipalities appear, apply. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall, in due time after the adoption of the Plan in January, draw up the functional requirements for those services that have been included. Accordingly, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works announced the procedure. From now on, it depends on the municipalities, in this case by the municipality of Radovets, at what pace will the planned measures be implemented in this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are no more questions for Mr. Biser Petkov. Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Thanks for the answer. Thank you for your participation in today's meeting. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova on measures for disposal of animal waste in the country. Professor Bachvarova, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u279	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The question is about what measures the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will take on the disposal of animal waste in the country. The problem with the disposal of animal waste has probably been for several years, at least the last three or four years there have been problems with the conclusion of contracts and payments with the two erasers in the country. In most cases, the equariuses unilaterally suspended the operation of this service until financial problems were mainly resolved. However, this activity has been carried out and we have accordingly fulfilled our commitments to the European Commission. Now the situation is a little different, because according to media information at this stage the work of the era in Shumen has ceased due to open violations, at least this has been reported in the media. Without going into detail what are these violations and without being particularly interested in the prescriptions that have been made, my question is: what measures and actions will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to carry out the animal waste disposal activity in the country in the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u280	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u281	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, the Ministry is not the competent authority to take measures. You know it, this is the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I will not comment on how the service of the two erasers was performed with extremely many violations. It is not the place here to comment on them, because they are commenting at the moment elsewhere. The production itself in Shumen following checks by the Food Agency at the beginning of the year following certain prescriptions has ceased activity. These are the very things that can be done. Currently in Bulgaria there are eight working sites registered by the Regional Food Safety Directorates under the Animal Health Act, which can process and disarm animal by-products. The Food Agency has taken all necessary measures. Currently, contracts for the collection, transport and disposal of animal by-products are provisionally concluded. As a result of the measures taken by the Agency, the harvesting process in the country has not interrupted. It is organised and carried out in a timely manner, without creating conditions for the spread of diseases threatening animal and public health. After stopping the operation of the equarius in the city of Shumen, the Ministry and the Agency have not received signals from natural and legal persons about problems with delayed collection, processing and disposal of by-products. The two parishes did not carry out their activities because of the European Commission, but on the basis of the contracts to carry out these activities. In addition, I can tell you that there is a public procurement, the so-called big public procurement, which has been complaining for several months, but this is the case in Bulgaria with every order with greater economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u282	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Professor, do you have a line? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u283	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I would not agree with the finding that the activities of the economists are not under the supervision, control and requirement of the European Commission. This is part of the general legislation that should be respected, and therefore the escargots are one of the most visible structures in each country. It is true that the Food Agency is authorised to conclude contracts, to declare public procurement, but it is also a commitment that the country must make, and that is why the attention to this activity should be extremely high. The fact is that public procurement often fails. They fail for various reasons, which are not always related specifically to the work to be carried out. I hope that what you are talking about now is that there are contracts that have been provisionally concluded and that the contract to carry out this activity will be a fact with the option to be awarded accordingly. Here I would like to put a question which I have also put in the previous National Assembly relating to projects that have been implemented under the Rural Development Programme for the construction of cumbersome points in certain municipalities. These projects were then financed by the Rural Development Programme. I think there are six such objects. At this stage, for example, in the last procurement for the harvest, they were not included as part and element of the overall policy on the disposal of animal waste. It is important to know and be predictable in the actions that the Ministry and also the Food Agency will implement, so that in the long term there may not be these problems, which, again, I say, is a third or fourth year in which problems are created in the implementation of the activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u284	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u285	Thank you. Just two comments. These four harvest points are built in four municipalities under the Programme. They cannot be laid down as a condition in advance to participate in such an order. The point is that the municipalities that have undertaken this commitment to carry out this activity must, together with operators who will apply, if they cannot apply independently, in any contract, do not want to say whether a consortium or a joint operation contract, make them part of such contracts so that they can use these sites for their intended purpose. Because the non-use for the purpose of these sites knows what it leads to in terms of European requirements. When I said the European Commission, I meant that maybe I didn't understand you correctly. I understood that you said that they were performing services to the European Commission. They work by the rules. There are three regulations that are being worked on. I apologize if I misunderstand you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is also raised by the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and he is about determining the rates of area arable land and the deadlines for payment of subsidies to farmers for campaign 2017. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u287	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the beginning of 2018, an indicative timetable for payments due to a unit of area for 2017. The fact is that indicative schedules are drawn up and published so that farmers can navigate, as well as final institutions regarding the time at which payments will be made. From now on, you are aware that this is also a basis for the conclusion of contracts, repayment plans for credit. The question is asked on May 29th. No payments were made in kind at that time. The information that came out last week showed that there are payments by nature, but the payments under measure 11 are not yet a fact. Here I can make a brief comment that payments for organic production before the first programming period, and then usually started on 1 December, January, February, are now shifted. It is already June month, and they are not realized, which creates extremely difficult for those who are dealing with organic production. This is one of the questions I have for you in order to clarify a little more about the payments under this measure. The second question relates to green payments. They were paid out by the State Fund at the rate of BGN 122,19. for a hectare. Compared to 2016, when there was an order published by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, their size was reduced by 3.25 per cent, or by 126,17 BGN. per hectare. There is also talk in the media that there will be a countervailing payment. First of all, what's the reason for the reduction? Secondly, when will this countervailing payment be implemented accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u288	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u289	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I saw that there was another lady, Mrs. Bachvarova. We are such good experts on European funds, so we know our answers when asking the questions. First of all, let me tell you about December payments. December were made only and only in measure 214 "Seitbos" and most of all because we had payments by the end of the year. They were area payments along with direct payments that took place without commitments, as they are for biological, from a much more serious point of view to certification bodies and so on. So it was only the 214 that came through. There were, you know, relatively large amounts and quite deliberately so that you can go with direct and not lose funds under the Rural Development Programme in the previous period. This year I dare say, and you know it, the indicative schedule is going very well. It's going very well, and the only delay I'm saying again is indicative was measure 11. Today, before I come here, I have made a reference, biologically, will be authorized to all those who are ready, and that will be about 45 million. lv. There'll probably be some who aren't ready and they'll be finished. In a few words, however, the information: under measure 12, the payments under the "Rabbit" and the Water Framework Directive, on 1 June, the State Fund of Agriculture paid 44.6 million to 11 512 producers. On the compensatory payments for organic farming following the finding of audit missions carried out, which mainly concern the biological status of holdings and other controls, additional controls were carried out by external bodies of the Fund. On 1 June 2018, authorisation under measure 214 of the Rural Development Programme was granted. They are currently being calculated according to measure 11, which I have told you, and today these payments will be authorised. At the beginning of May, the Fund paid 441 million. lv. for the 2017 campaign under the payment scheme for agricultural practices favourable to the climate and the environment, or these are green payments. Support received nearly 57 000 farmers. The calculation of the financial assistance paid was carried out at the indicative rate. The indicative rate shall be based on the requested area. You know, now that the area is finally clarified, this recalculation is done. The indicative rate is as you pointed out. Upon completion of any additional checks concerning organic farming in the country, a specific amount of individual support under the scheme will be issued, recalculation will be made and additional payment will be received. I am opening just one more clamp for your information: under the single area payment scheme we made 741 million. lv. indicative payment from the budget to those ready at that time before the complaints are dealt with before standing up and so on. Before the ceilings we have paid 636 leva. There are still 105 million levs left, where the rate will already be recalculated and all DEAs as a difference of eligible areas will be made the additional payment under the Single Area Payment Scheme. The same applies to those 24 million. BGN, which remains on these 56 000 farmers, which we are commenting on at the moment. So the rate will be even higher than what you mentioned. And only as the latest information, by the way, throughout the second pillar so far have we paid under the Agro-environment, the other natural constraints lv. plus the ones to be paid. They'll be up to 60 million. BGN, but will now be authorized by 45. And there remains the production-related payment, for which we also have residual budgets. They will also be reported and paid by the end of June. So all the recalculations that are already paid will be made in this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a reply to the Minister's response? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable Members, thank you for your reply... many payments, many numbers. But at the end of the day, when there is an indicative schedule and delay, a significant delay is needed more than 10 days or a month, as it is obtained, it is good to have information, because phones overheat my phones too, with the question: when will the payment be paid, because banks are waiting for the maturity of payments and so on? This as a practice is not yet seen in relation to precisely sufficient information about changes, and may cause delays in one payment or another and be objective. And one particular question related to organic production. The submission of the information on the delay in payments under measure 11 and in general on biological measures, is the problem in organic producers or in certification companies because it is important to take into account that too? When authorising payments, the problem must be identified as a whole. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u292	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u293	Thank you. In addition, I did not know that you were being treated as a paying agency and are being approached and bothered. I agree that there should be more information. With regard to measure 11, the topic was with the receipt of feedback from the certification or controlling parties with regard to the dropped commitments for producers, they are above 7,500, as you know. We are entering an electronic exchange now, but it will start under the Programme we have bet somewhere in July. So for next year we'll have an electronic gathering. Yes, we have certainly had a delay precisely in specifying those producers who have dropped out of commitments under measure 11 and the information itself was not transmitted in time to the paying agency. I'm sure we're working on this thing right now. The system will be ready. It will be an electronic system for introducing continuous information, including for dropouts, which will be available in the Ministry, and also for the Fund. So at least this delay won't be there. I would like to stress again, in this year compared to last year, where you know, we have had even greater delays for purely technical reasons for some elements, delays are quite symbolic, and one or two measures at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next you will be asked by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Yankova, Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov about the state of the forest roads. Who will develop the question? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Forests in art. 87, para. 3 is indicated that within the scope of the activities under para. 1 shall also be included in the maintenance of the forest road network and in art. 93a, para. 1: The haul of wood harvested from the wood shall be carried out so as not to cause damage to road loads. In a number of areas of the country for years, and for many years, so are the old and new forest roads, that they are now becoming a very serious problem for the executive power of municipalities and town halls, especially in the mountain and semi-mountain regions. High tracks made by heavy forest equipment, inability of citizens to access their properties, whole in mud and water, cracked or interrupted old plumbing pipes. Discontent grows, this is what I find especially in our Lovech region. We have a lot of footage, as part of it I will provide you, but I think the outrage in the Bulgarian forest roads is just incredible. Our question to you is as follows: what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of forest roads, as well as the control of their condition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u296	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. [[The National Representative Valentina Naydenova submitted to the Minister a photo.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, dear Mrs. Naydenova, dear Mr. Nedyalkov! Undoubtedly, the construction of new forest roads, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads is a fundamental prerequisite for the implementation of planned forestry activities related to the management, renewal and conservation of forest areas. In fact, in the period from 1990 until the establishment of state forest enterprises with the Forests Act in 2011, there was no overall policy regarding the construction and rehabilitation of forestry infrastructure. Separate projects for the construction of new roads have been carried out, which is due to the lack or limited amount of state budget funds to finance these activities. The problem of insufficient funding of forest activities is resolved by the Law in 2011, by creating a special fund The Fund accumulates funds from the activities of the six state-owned forest enterprises, which are commercial companies registered under the Commercial Law. They are spent mainly on the design and construction of forest roads and the transport of technical infrastructure, technical support activities and, of course, on afforestation. With the funding provided by the Fund, state-owned enterprises annually invest in the design, construction and major repair of forest roads in order to ensure the implementation of the activities provided for in the forestry plans related to the management, restoration and conservation of forest areas and fires. For the period from 2013 to 2017 with funds from the Fund for the Forests, the project was carried out: design of 277 km of forest roads; construction of 246 km of forest roads; and major repair of 122 km of roads. In 2018 the activities of design, construction and repair of forest roads continue. I would like to say that the Programme is quite ambitious and the parameters are getting closer to what has been done in recent years. The construction of the new forest roads is carried out by contractors selected after procedures under the Public Procurement Act by the relevant contracting entity, namely by the directors of the state enterprises, respectively the directors of the respective In addition to the formation of the target fund, state-owned enterprises are investing funds from their business activities for maintenance and on-going repair of existing forest roads where necessary. These activities are carried out by both external contractors selected after the conduct of procedures under the Public Procurement Act and by their own equipment and workers. In recent years, in order to carry out urgent ongoing repairs of forestry infrastructure, state-owned enterprises have purchased modern specialised equipment for maintenance and repair of forest roads. Even this year's programme, which is set out in the plans, is ambitious in this regard. In order to protect permanent forest roads from damage or destruction, a special order has been issued to the Minister of Agriculture and Food from February 2016 indicating the transport of wood harvested from the forestry territories of state property not to be carried out during periods during which soils are re-mold. You understand that heavy trucks, when the soil is wet, create a violation of the roads. However, it is difficult to control this whole process most effectively. It is important to note that under the general terms and conditions of the contracts for the award of activities and for the sale of wood, contracting entities, respectively sellers, are obliged to ensure access to the sites through the forestry roads in a position that does not hinder the implementation of the activities. At the same time, companies operating in state forest areas are obliged to maintain them in a usable form and restore them in case of destruction. Upon receiving signals of broken roads, action shall be taken to re-mount them. Here I have been described the decision-making procedure, the implementation control and so on. What I would like to conclude is that, of course, all forest roads cannot be made at once. There is a programme approved annually on the basis of which the implementation of these roads is entrusted following the conclusion of contracts under the Public Procurement Act. This is an integral part of the entire extraction process, of fire safety, because when we do not have a normal path and passability to all points, we also have difficult points, we know that this hinders the process in fire operations. I would like to assure you that this is a topic on which, since 2011, and now, in the case of financial resources, we intend to use it and work effectively on it. Thank you for the photos too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u298	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you care to take a look at the answer? You have an opportunity for further questions. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We are grateful for the answer related to what is being done, especially after the adoption of the new Forests Act 2011. Here I should just point out that in 2008 the Bulgarian Forest Fund also started operating, which also focused on the main activity in its financing were our roads. However, the question was: how are these roads maintained? It turns out that forest roads, forest infrastructure, after an event related to precipitation, with extremely heavy equipment being used, become unusable. Are there any sanctioned companies that have carried out the activity in a way in which they have destroyed these forest roads and how they are accordingly sanctioned? Is the path then restored as it should have been? One question, a little related to coordination between municipalities and state forest enterprises. In many cases, as in Troyan, there are municipal forests, and there are state lands. In order for once to be rehabilitated or a new path to be created, there must be some interaction between municipalities and state farms, and such coordination is very difficult for both design and financing. In Troyan's case, the municipality, in its inability to provide these activities, the state enterprise, having the possibility that the result is zero, is gone. So it kind of starts and ends. These are issues that exist in many municipalities, in many regions of the country. My question is: will there be work in this direction to find the intersections so that full investment projects in the forest sector can be implemented?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u300	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you will complete your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u301	Thank you. Extremely accurate findings and questions, of course. The main problem is in the different form of property.. Private, municipal, state. The state is 75. 80%, however, municipalities have a small share. I would like to say that our businesses and the Forest Agency have done quite well with the fight against the crown, which last year we started very actively with headquarters, with identification, with absolutely everything. At the moment, however, where the municipal forests are, the stains remain, and they are potential agents. Similar is the problem with municipal roads. At the moment, I find it difficult to answer you in one or another municipality what coordination has been made, but I make a commitment to place it as a task for our state enterprises where they have joint roads where they need to have a joint problem, what coordination is, what opportunities and where exactly the process is interrupted. I'm guessing the photos you gave me aren't from new roads. These are existing forest roads that need repair and reconstruction. Prof. Bachvarova, I find it difficult for me to answer to you precisely whether there was a company that was established. I will check it, which worked on the road and on the basis of the compromise of the respective department had to be sanctioned or carried out remanded activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u302	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you care to comment on the Minister's response? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We have put this topic with a clear awareness that there are many unresolved issues in the forest sector and this is one of them. In order to prepare for this debate, I took the trouble to read the National Strategy for Forest Development, which is a public document for 2013 - 2020. There are a number of findings that relate to the fact that the forest road network in the country is relatively poorly developed and comparisons are made with France and Germany, where it is three or four times more saturated than what is in Bulgaria. In this strategy it is written that it must be developed and it must be proposed to discuss and adopt a National Plan for the Development of Forest Infrastructure, where roads are leading in this regard. All attempts to find such a National Plan have proved unsuccessful. The development of this plan will provide the basis and the basis for not working year-to-year according to the requests of state forestry farms for the rehabilitation of road infrastructure or the construction of a new road infrastructure in forest areas, but will give a comprehensive vision and the opportunity to implement a long-term policy with a view to resolving issues that are related not only to the movement of vehicles, but also to resolving issues of fire safety and access to places that create problems and lead to extremely many losses. We hope that this national plan will be developed, presented and based on it to have a long-term opportunity and vision for realization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u304	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. I address Mr. Georgiev and Minister Porozhanov the time is now 14.05.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u305	There were declarations from groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u306	We have a chance, don't we? Then it is certainly reasonable to continue. We are continuing to conclude, and with your question, I would ask for consent. Question on the possibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to support the activity of the agrometeorological network of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The growth that is most influenced by climate change is undoubtedly agriculture. Last Friday, with Professor Bachvarova, Dear Minister, we asked you a question about the fight against hails, because the last flood in Varna, we see that the problem is really serious. Before me is a letter from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, which in October of last year they turned to you for assistance because they had insufficient funding. I will read the letter, as it is also my question in this regard, because the answer that is then given to them is signed by the Secretary-General. I suppose you're familiar, but let's get acquainted with both the MPs and the spectators. Dear Minister, at the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are conducted research on climate change and their impact on agriculture in Bulgaria. Agrometeorology Department has experience in the preparation of information materials for the service activities of farmers. In order to improve the results of their work and increase the quantity and quality of their production, the National Institute has a network of 28 agrometeorological stations throughout the country and information from them about the phenologic development of crops, the state of water reserves in soil, meteorological elements and their daily values. These data, systematized and adequately presented, can only facilitate the work of the Ministry of Agriculture. We have scientific potential and we can help the Ministry of Agriculture in drawing up the Action Plan and Strategy for the adaptation of agriculture by 2050 as a result of climate anomalies and changes of land, frost, heat, waves, floods, storms. We can also actively cooperate in the area of the specialization of regions in the production of different types of agricultural production, to justify the priorities for the development of tidal agriculture and the restructuring of agriculture in different regions. In recent years, the activity of the entire institute, including the agri-meteorological network, has been carried out in the context of a permanent financial deficit. As a result of this lack of state observers in the agrometeorological network work in a quarter state and the tendency to end the entire network is real. We appeal to you, dear Mr. Porozhanov, asking the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to support the activity of the agrometeorological network of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at BAS by carrying out targeted funding of the observations and maintenance of this network of 400 thousand. lv. Annually. The amount shall include the remuneration of observers and the means of maintenance and renewal of observation facilities. If emergency measures are not taken, we will probably not be able to provide any specialised agrometeorological information due to a lack of up-to-date observations in a year or two. Dear Minister, in this regard: what is the possibility for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to support the activity of the agrometeorological network of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at BAS by carrying out targeted funding of the observations and maintenance of this network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u308	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u309	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry appreciates the efforts of scientists and specialists from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to provide the necessary meteorological information, hydrological information on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Meteorological information is extremely important for the implementation of agricultural policy. In this regard, over the years, the Ministry, through the Executive Agency, has been cooperating with the cities and the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology through continuous two-way exchange of information on meteorological data. At the same time, for the sake of turnover over the years, the Ministry has used the services of the National Institute to provide expert assistance by paying the relevant services. For example, in 2017, a contract amount of 66 thousand was paid. lv. The Ministry implements state policy in the field of agriculture and food, rural areas, forests, fisheries and so on, with all the structural units in its composition working within a very limited budget resource, therefore it cannot provide through its budget targeted funding to the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. In conclusion, given the importance of providing information needed for citizens and for the activities of a number of institutions, as well as ensuring and preventing risks to the economy and the population of the country, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry would support the provision of targeted funding from the state budget for the activities of the Institute through the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. A little more generally speaking, you know, we are the budgetary institution of the previous parliamentary control and I thanked you for your support in the budget and for the fact that you advocated to have additional funds in the budget and we are working in a chronic deficit by leaving the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and everywhere. The truth is that there is no way we can finance another budgetary officer who is not secondary to the Ministry of Education. So we can only have relationships related to the provision and payment of certain services. Undoubtedly, however, it is obvious that in order to preserve this potential, both technically and scientifically, and expertly, things are quite serious. The chairman of the Academy is at our every meeting. I will talk to him on Wednesday, to make a joint initiative before the Prime Minister, to see if the necessary resources can be provided in this and next year, because this is not about some huge money, but they cannot come from the Ministry of Agriculture for purely administrative and legal reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I said in vain that the answer is from the Secretary-General to the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, not signed by you. I'll start with this: tell the Secretary General that in the letter he wrote that they have similar activities. First of all, the Cities Agency, you know, with your order, works from April to October. Its task is to monitor the core and density of the rainy clouds and launch missiles. We do not comment on the quality here, as the pay is low for the rocket shooters who are constantly leaving. Secondly, the National Institute works 365 days, 24 hours a day. The hail control agency uses information from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. By 2016, they had 45 agrophenological bases, and they had 9 forestry bases, but because of the underfinancing, this thing ends. You and I commented last week on the new common agricultural policy. There will be spent again over 10 billion, but if the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is closed, what policy will we have from now on in the field of agriculture? Thanks for the answer. I'd be happy to join these meetings next week, as you said, it's about 400,000. BGN, it's not about millions. For 400,000. BGN, with which you will operate with this information, as Minister of Agriculture, respectively your respective agencies and departments. Thanks again for the answer. I hope we can help the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology exist. He's got a long history, and there's no way to close him down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-08.u312	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question from today's program. He and I have also completed the weekly work programme of parliament. The next regular meeting is on 13 June 2018. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
