ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we continue the second vote on the bill on anti-money laundering measures, I will read you a few messages. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code, No 854-01-10 of 21 February 2018 Importers are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. Message: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military stay in the internal maritime waters to visit the port of Varna, for the period from 15 March 2018 to 18 March 2018, of a ship of the composition of the French Republic's Naval Forces, type of decked frigate on board. During the visit training flights will be carried out in the deck helicopter. The visit of the ship was included as an event in the joint development by the ministries of defence of the two countries a plan for bilateral military cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the French Republic in 2018. The notification was received on 8 March 2018 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Let's continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI. Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u2	"Chapter 5" - Protection of information and persons. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 80: Art. 80. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 The organs referred to in art. 74, para. 4 and under art. 88, the persons managing and representing them and their employees shall not notify their client or third parties of the disclosure of information under art. 68, 72, 74, 76 "78" and 88. (2) The prohibition on disclosure of information under para. 1 shall not apply to the relevant supervisory authority. (3) The prohibition under para. 1 shall not prevent the disclosure of information between persons under art. 4 t. 1.. 3, 5 and 8. 11 either between their branches and subsidiaries located in Member States or in third countries, provided that those branches and subsidiaries comply fully with the policies and procedures within the group, including the procedures for the exchange of information within the group, in accordance with art. 104 and that the policies and procedures within the group comply with the requirements of this law. (4) The prohibition under para. 1 shall not prevent the disclosure of information between persons under art. 4 t. 12, 14 and 15 from Member States or from third countries under art. 27 who carry out their professional activities, whether as employees or not, within the same legal person or larger body to which the person belongs and who has common ownership, management or control over the implementation of measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. (5) The prohibition under para. 1 shall not prevent the disclosure of information between the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 t. In the case of the same client or the same transaction involving two or more persons, two or more persons shall participate in the same transaction, under the following conditions: 1. the persons are located in a Member State or in a third country under art. 27; 2. the persons are of the same professional category; 3. persons have obligations to protect professional, banking or commercial secrecy and to protect personal data corresponding to the Bulgarian legislation; 4. information can only be used to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. (6) When the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 12, 14 and 15 seek to dissuade a client from engaged in illegal activity, this does not constitute disclosure of information within the meaning of para. 1. (7) The exceptions under para. 3 " 5" shall not apply and information shall not be disclosed between the persons referred to in art. 4 and persons from high-risk third countries under art. 46, para. 3, as well as if the persons referred to in Article 3. 4 have failed to fulfil their obligations under the Personal Data Protection Act, or instructions have been issued for this by the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81, as in para. 1 the words "six, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 83. Art. 83. As regards the collected, processed and held by the Directorate of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security and the Rules for its Implementation of Personal Data, art. 25, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data after the expiry of the mandatory period for storage under art. 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u3	So far, Mr. Nunev. Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of Chapter Five, which the Commission supports, the wording of Articles 80, 81, 82 and 83 on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 113, none, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u4	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, in which it replaces the word "the present' with the word "the present'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer's importer and shall propose the following version of art. 86: Art. 86. (1) Disclosure of information in cases under art. 68, 72, 74, 76, 78, 87, 89 and Chapter 9 shall not give rise to liability for breach of the restrictions on disclosure of information provided for by a contract, legal or regulatory act or administrative act. (2) In the cases under para. 1 shall not be held liable and where it is found that no crime has been committed and the operations and transactions have been committed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u5	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 84 with the respective version supported by the Commission, art. Art. 85 and the version of Art. 85 86 on the Commission report. They voted 139 MPs: for 107, they have no objection, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u6	? Chapter 6?? Co-operation.? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. "Department I" - National cooperation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87 as in para. 4 after the word The information is added by para. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u7	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Six, supported by the Commission, the name of Section I, art. 87 with the appropriate supplement and art. 88, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u8	They voted 133 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 30. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u9	"Department II" International Cooperation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90: Art. 90. (1) The Financial Intelligence Directorate shall, on its own initiative and upon request, exchange information on suspicion of money laundering and related prior crimes with relevant international bodies, bodies of the European Union and bodies of other countries on the basis of international treaties and/or under the conditions of reciprocity. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall exchange information with a view to achieving the objectives of Directive (EU) 2015/849 for risk analysis and uniform application of international standards within the European Union, as well as for providing information to assess the effectiveness of the system for preventing and countering money laundering and terrorist financing. (3) The time limits for carrying out the exchange of information shall comply with those specified by the authorities under para. 1 as well as technical possibilities for collecting and providing information, including, where necessary, translation into a foreign language. (4) In connection with the membership of the Directorate-General of the Financial Intelligence and the Office of the State Agency of National Security in the Egmont Group, the Director of the Directorate may conclude, amend and terminate non-binding agreements with the Financial Intelligence units of other countries members of the Egmont Group, which concern only the exchange of information between them and fully follow the requirements established by the organisation. The agreements shall cover: 1. the conditions and arrangements for exchange which follow the requirements of the Egmont Group and this Law; 2. the conditions for the use and protection of information under this law and the requirements of the Egmont Group; 3. the types of information that the Directorate of Financial Intelligence......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (5) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security may refuse to provide information when the requesting financial intelligence unit cannot protect the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u10	Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote three texts: the first text of the applicant for the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission; the second text of the importer for art. 89, which is supported by the Commission, the third text of the drafts proposed by the Commission, in the text of art. 90. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u11	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91: Art. 91. (1) Outside the cases referred to in art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 72 notification of money laundering or of the existence of means of criminal origin refers to that country. (2) Provided by the order of para. 1 information shall be used for the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. (3) The conditions and procedures for fulfilling the obligation under para. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 92: Art. 92. (1) Upon receiving a reasoned request of a financial intelligence unit of another State by the order of art. 90 and when there is a suspicion of money laundering, the Director of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security may suspend an operation or transaction under art. 73, para. 1. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate shall immediately inform the prosecution of the suspension of the operation or transaction by providing the necessary information, subject to the conditions and restrictions set by the Financial Intelligence Unit of the State concerned in respect of the information provided by it and under the restrictions of art. 75, para. 1. (3) When until the expiry of the term referred to in art. 73, para. 1 shall not be enforced forcibly or forbidden, the person referred to in Article 1. 4 may carry out the operation or transaction. (4) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security may refuse to suspend an operation or transaction under para. 1 where: 1. the reasoned request of the financial intelligence unit of the State concerned is not accompanied by the relevant authorisation for the use of the information for the purposes of that Article, including the provision of information to the competent authorities; or 2. the information received and available would not be sufficient reason to suspend the operation or transaction under art. 73, para. 1 as well as if stopping would harm an ongoing investigation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 93: Art. 93. (1) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency may impose restrictions and conditions for the use of the information provided under this section. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate shall be able to use the information received under this section only for the purpose for which it has been requested or provided. The disclosure of such information to another authority, institution or service or the use of such information for purposes exceeding those initially approved shall be carried out after prior consent by the Financial Intelligence Unit of another State that provided the information and under the conditions of exchange and use specified by it. (3) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security may refuse to grant its prior consent to the disclosure of the information under para. 2, only if it could harm an ongoing investigation. The refusal shall be motivated for each particular case. (4) Upon request or on its own initiative, the Directorate of Financial Intelligence shall inform the State Department of the way in which the information it provides is used. The decision on the volume of information to be provided back for each particular case shall be taken by the Director of the Directorate. (5) Information exchanged in accordance with art. It is protected under this law and does not constitute a service secret within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u12	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote three texts: the first of them the Commission proposes, in the text of art. 91, the second draft which the Commission proposes, in the text of art. 92 and the third version of the Commission's proposal, in the text of art. 93. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 96, none, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u13	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 94: Art. 94. (1) The exchange of information under this section shall be carried out through secure electronic communications channels between the financial intelligence units within the European Union or the Egmont Group. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall cooperate with the Financial Intelligence units of other Member States in the implementation of advanced technologies that allow anonymous comparison of data received under art. 72, with the data of the financial intelligence units of those countries according to criteria and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (3) The application of the technologies under para. 2 shall be carried out in compliance with the full protection of personal data in order to disclose to persons who are of interest to financial intelligence units in other Member States and to establish their revenue and resources. (4) The technologies under para. 2 may also be used for a joint analysis of cross-border cases, as well as for establishing trends and factors relevant to the assessment of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, under conditions and under the order laid down by the Rules on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u14	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 94. They voted 121 MPs, for 98, against none, abstention 23. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u15	"Chapters 1 and 2 of Part II of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Section I "National Risk Assessment." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96: Art. 96. (1) For the purpose of the national risk assessment, a permanent interdepartmental working group shall be established which shall: 1. prepare and update the national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. prepare reports on the results of the national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing and present them to the Council of Ministers; 3. prepare proposals for the measures to be taken as well as an action plan to limit the risks identified in the national assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing presented for consideration to the Council of Ministers; 4. prepare other analyses in the field of prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing which require cooperation and coordination between institutions, as well as prepare reports on the results of these analyses presented to the Council of Ministers; 5. perform other functions defined by law. (2) The Working Group under para. 1 shall be established by an act of the Council of Ministers. (3) In the composition of the working group under para. 1 include representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Directorate of Finance Intelligence and the Ministry of State Agency of National Security, the competent specialized departments of the State Agency of National Security, the supervisory authorities and other state bodies and institutions with separate powers in the field of prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as those with data and information necessary for the preparation and updating of the national risk assessment. (4) For the performance of the tasks of the working group under para. 1 may also be attracted representatives of the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 and their professional and professional organisations. (5) State bodies and institutions under para. 3 and the persons under para. 4 are obliged to provide the working group with information and data, including statistical data under art. 71 which are necessary for the implementation of the activities under para. 1, t. 1........................................................... The provision of information and data shall not be restricted for reasons of professional or professional secrecy. (6) The information and data under para. 5 shall be used only for the purpose of the national risk assessment and may be made available to third parties or disclosed only after the prior authorisation and in the volume determined by the relevant authority or institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u16	Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first text of the applicant for the name of Chapter VII, which is supported by the Commission, the second text of the applicant for the name of Section One, which is supported by the Commission, the third text of the applicant for art. 95, which is supported by the Commission, and the final text of the drafts proposed by the Commission, in the text of art. 96. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 95, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u17	Under art. 97 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 97: Art. 97. (1) The results of the national risk assessment shall serve as: 1. improving the legal framework for prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing, including by identifying all areas in which the persons under art. 4 have to apply stricter measures and, where appropriate, an indication of the measures to be taken; 2. establishment of sectors or areas with a lower or higher risk of money laundering and terrorist financing; 3. allocation and targeting by priority areas of funds and resources to counter money laundering and terrorist financing; 4. ensuring the establishment of appropriate rules for each sector or area in accordance with the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing; 5. providing timely access to the persons under art. 4 to the information necessary to facilitate their own assessments of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. (2) The results of the national risk assessment shall be provided to the persons referred to in art. 4 in volume, form and manner defined by the interdepartmental working group under art. 96, para. 1. (3) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency shall present to the Chair of the Agency a report on the results of the national risk assessment. (4) The results of the national risk assessment shall be made available to the European Commission, to the European Supervisory Authorities and to the other Member States in accordance with art. 90. (5) The arrangements for implementing the measures under para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Law. "Section II................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 98 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98: Art. 98. (1) To identify, understand and assess the risks of money laundering and financing terrorism, the persons referred to in art. 4 prepare their own risk assessments taking into account relevant risk factors, including those relating to customers, countries or geographical areas, products and services offered, transactions and transactions carried out or delivery mechanisms. (2) In the preparation of the risk assessments under para. 1 shall take into account the type of person referred to in Article 1. 4 and the volume of its activity. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply by the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4. (4) The persons under para. 3 with an annual turnover of more than 20 000 BGN prepare a risk assessment using criteria for risk assessment prepared and published by the State Agency of National Security. (5) The persons under para. 3, regardless of their annual turnover, may prepare a risk assessment under para. 4 and when they consider that there is a risk of using their activities for: 1. money laundering or terrorist financing by individual terrorists, terrorist organisations and terrorist financing entities; 2. concealing the financing of terrorism through the use of persons with legitimate purposes and activities, including in order to avoid blocking of funds and other financial assets or economic resources; 3. diversion of funds intended for legal purposes to individual terrorists, terrorist organisations and terrorist financing entities. (6) Risk assessments under para. 1 and 4 shall be updated periodically. The time limits, order and additional requirements for risk assessments and the factors to be complied with in the preparation of the risk assessment under para. 1 and 4 shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (7) Risk assessments under para. 1 and 4 shall be documented and kept in accordance with Chapter Three, Section I. (8) Risk assessments under para. 1 and 4 are accessible to the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security and to the supervisory authorities. (9) On the basis of the risk assessments drawn up, the persons shall determine the risk profile of the client and the business relationship with him and shall apply the measures under this law in accordance with the defined risk profile.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u18	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I'll put three texts to the vote. The first is the version which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 97; the second text of the importer for the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission; and the third text which the Commission proposes in the text of art. 98. They voted 115 MPs: 97, none, abstention 18. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u19	Under art. 99 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 99: Art. 99. (1) When preparing and updating the risk assessment under art. 98, para. 1 and 4 must comply with and reflect the results of the national risk assessment under art. 95, para. 1 as well as the results of the supranational risk assessment and the recommendations of the European Commission under art. 95, para. 2. (2) In case when preparing the risk assessment under art. 98, para. 1 and 4 persons under art. 4 do not comply with the results of the national risk assessment under art. 95, para. 1 within 14 days of the preparation of the assessment, the person referred to in Article 1. 4 informs the Directorate of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of its decision and the reasons for it. (3) Upon notification under para. 2 The Director of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security can give mandatory instructions to the person under art. 4 which are reflected in the risk assessment under art. 98. (4) Alinei 1 s 3 shall also apply respectively to the risk assessments under art. 100, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100: Art. 100. (1) Professional organisations and associations of the persons referred to in art. 4 may prepare and update assessments of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing at sectoral level. (2) The results of the risk assessments under para. 1 shall be made available to the members of the professional organisations and associations of the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 for the purpose of drawing up risk assessments under art. 98, para. 1 and 4. (3) Risk assessments under para. 1 shall be documented and kept in accordance with Chapter Three, Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u20	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission, of the text of art. 99; second is the version proposed by the Commission, of the text of Art. 99. 100. They voted 105 MPs: 90, none, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u21	"Chapter Eight" "Inner Organization and Control." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. Section I - Internal rules for the control and prevention of money laundering. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 101 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 101 the following amendments shall be made: 1. para. 6 2. para. 7 " 11" became respectively. 6 - 10, for the respective editorial changes of internal references in them. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 adopt internal rules for the control and prevention of money laundering that apply effectively to their branches and subsidiaries abroad. The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 shall adopt internal rules in the cases referred to in Article 4. 98, para. 4 and 5. (2) The internal rules under para. 1 contain: 1. clear criteria for recognition of suspicious transactions or transactions and clients; 2. the order for the use of technical means to prevent and detect money laundering; 3. a system of internal control over the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in this Law and its implementing acts; 4. possibility of conducting an internal audit review where the person under art. 4 has created one to verify and assess the rules, procedures and requirements of that paragraph; 5. the possibility of carrying out an independent audit to verify and assess the rules, procedures and requirements of this subparagraph, where appropriate in view of the size and nature of the business of the person under art. 4; 6. the internal system under art. 42; 7. internal system for risk assessment and determination of the risk profile of customers; 8. proportionate to the size and nature of the business of the person under art. 4 policies, control mechanisms and procedures to limit and effectively manage the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing established at European Union level at national level and at the level of the entity under obligation; 9. rules and organisation for the fulfilment of the obligations to clarify the origin of the funds and the source of the property; 10. the arrangements for the collection, storage and disclosure of information; 11. the time intervals during which the supported databases and client files are reviewed and updated in accordance with art. 15 and 16, in compliance with the established and documented in accordance with art. 98 level of risk to customers and business relationships; 12. the allocation of responsibility for implementing measures against money laundering on the branches of the person under art. 4 and measures including risk assessment procedures for branches and subsidiaries under the conditions of art. 7 if any; 13. the rules for organizing and working of the specialized service under art. 106, as well as the training rules for staff in the specialized service; 14. the training rules of the other staff; 15. the distribution of the responsibility of the representatives and employees of the person under art. 4 for the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in this Law and in the implementing acts, as well as contact details of the person under art. 4 and with his representatives and servants responsible for the purposes of this law; 16. proportional to the size and nature of the business of the person under art. 4 procedure for the anonymous and independent submission of internal alerts by officials for infringements of this law and its implementing acts; 17. the assessment referred to in art. 98, para. 4; 18. other rules, procedures and requirements according to the characteristics of the activity of the person under art. 4. (3) The conditions and procedures for the adoption and presentation of the internal rules under para. 1 shall be laid down by the Rules implementing the law. (4) The Supreme Council of Laws, the Notary Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Chamber of Private Judicial Artists and the Institute of Graduated Accountants shall adopt uniform internal rules for the control and prevention of money laundering, which shall be applied by the members of these organizations after their validation in accordance with art. 103. (5) The Department of Finance Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security shall draw up exemplary internal rules regarding the activity of the persons under art. 4 t. 13, 19, 20, 25 and 27 "29" which he published on his website. (6) Persons Art. 4 t. 13, 19, 20, 25, 27 and 29 shall adopt internal rules in accordance with art. 102 which comply with the indicative rules of para. 5, supplementing them according to the level of risk determined in accordance with Chapter 7, including with regard to the criteria for suspicious operations, transactions and clients or adopting their own internal rules under para. 1. The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 in the cases referred to in art. 98, para. 4 and 5 shall adopt internal rules in accordance with art. 102 which comply with the indicative rules of para. 5, supplementing them with the assessment referred to in Article 5. 98, para. 4. (7) Within the term referred to in art. 103, para. 2 persons under art. 4 t. 13, 19, 20, 25, 27 6. (8) Representatives of payment service providers under art. 4 t. 2 are obliged to observe and apply the adopted in accordance with art. 102 and established according to the order of art. 103 internal rules of the payment service provider under art. 4 t. 2. Insurance agents shall perform their duties as persons under art. 4 t. 5 by observing and applying the adopted in accordance with art. 102 and established according to the order of art. 103 internal rules of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. (9) Payment service providers, insurance and reinsurance undertakings from another Member State operating directly within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, shall apply policies and procedures for the control and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which shall contain at least the requirements set out in para. 2, or meet these requirements by means of other means notified to the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency by providing full information on the policies and procedures applied. (10) After the notification under para. 9 representatives of payment service providers under para. 9 as well as insurance and reinsurance companies under para. 9 shall comply with and apply the policies and procedures for the control and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing of the payment service provider they represent, respectively, to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking for which they carry out insurance or reinsurance mediation. (11) The persons referred to in art. 4 are obliged to provide introductory and continuing training to their employees to familiarise them with the requirements of this Law and its implementing acts, as well as with the internal rules under this Article, including ongoing training programmes aimed at identifying suspicious operations, transactions, sources and customers and to taking the necessary action in cases of suspicion of money laundering. (12) When the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 have not adopted internal rules in the cases referred to in Article 4. 98, para. 4 and 5, the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security is providing binding instructions for taking further action.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u22	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote first: the first one is the importer for the name of Chapter Eight, and the second one for the name of Section I, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 17 against 56, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. The next text I put to the vote is the version which the Commission proposes in the text of art. 101. They voted 86 MPs: 72, none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u23	Under art. 102, para. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 102: Art. 102. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 shall adopt the rules laid down in Article 4. 101 within 4 months of registration. The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 shall adopt the rules laid down in Article 4. 101 to 31 July of the year following the year for which their annual turnover exceeds the amount of art. 98, para. 4 or within one month of the preparation of the assessment under art. 98, para. 5. (2) Where a particular activity is subject to licensing, authorisation or registration, the persons referred to in art. 4 shall adopt the rules laid down in Article 4. 101 within 4 months of the issue of the licence or authorisation or registration in the relevant register. (3) The rules of art. 101 shall be adopted by written act of the person referred to in Article 101. 4. In the case of persons under art. 4 which are legal persons or other legal entities, the rules shall be adopted by written act by the persons managing them and/or representing them. Under art. 103 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 103: Art. 103. (1) The internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first and para. 4 shall be endorsed by the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. (2) Within 14 days of their adoption, the internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first and para. 4 shall be sent to the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency for the Promotion of National Security. (3) When the internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first and para. 4 do not comply with this law or act of its application, have not been adopted by a competent authority of the person referred to in art. 4 shall not be accompanied by the document referred to in Article 4. 105, para. 2 the circumstances of art. 105, para. 3 or the measures provided for in the internal rules are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of this law, the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall give to the person under art. 4 mandatory guidelines for the resolution of identified non-compliances. The persons referred to in art. 4 shall be notified of the publication of the information under para. 9 in case of failure to comply with the instructions. (4) The persons referred to in art. 4 are required within one month of receipt of the instructions to remove the discrepancies and to re-submit their internal rules to the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency for Promotion. (5) The internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first is mandatory for application by the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 after their confirmation by the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. (6) The internal rules under art. 101, para. 4 are mandatory for implementation by the members of the organizations under art. 101, para. 4 after their confirmation by the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. (7) The persons referred to in art. 4 send a copy of the established internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first of the relevant supervisory authority within 14 days of receipt of the notification of their validation. (8) The Director of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security may give binding instructions on the internal rules and criteria under art. 101, para. 6, 8 and 9 in order to achieve the objectives of this law. The instructions shall be implemented within the term under para. 4 which shall be notified to the Directorate. The persons referred to in art. 4 shall be notified of the publication of the information under para. 9 in case of failure to comply with the instructions. (9) When the persons under para. 4 do not comply with the instructions of the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, given in accordance with para. 3 or 8 within the term of para. 4, information on the failure to comply is published on the official website of the State Agency under the terms and conditions laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 105: Art. 105. (1) Physical person under art. 4 t. 15, 16 or 18, as well as a prosecutor, manager, member of a management or control body or unlimited responsible partner in person under art. 4 t. 15, 16 or 18 may not be a person convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, unless rehabilitated, in so far as otherwise provided by law. (2) The circumstances under para. 1 for Bulgarian citizens is officially checked. The persons who are not Bulgarian citizens shall submit a document from an independent official source from the country of citizenship or permanent residence concerned or any other equivalent document for the absence of the fact of para. 1. When sending the internal rules under art. 101, para. 1 sentence first for the approval by the Director of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence. 4 t. 15, 16 and 18 send the document by sentence two. (3) Within 14 days of a change in the fact of para. 1 persons under para. 1 notify the Directorate of Financial Intelligence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u24	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote four texts: the first is the version proposed by the Commission, in the text of art. 102; second is the version proposed by the Commission, of the text of art. The third is the text of the importer of art. 103; the third is the text of the importer of art. 104, which is supported by the Commission, and the fourth is the version which the Commission proposes, in the text of art. 105. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 81, no objection, 14 abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u25	"Department II" "Securities Specialized Services". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106: Art. 106. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1, 3, 5 and 8 "11" except insurance intermediaries shall establish specialized services that prepare, propose and implement training programmes for the employees in the implementation of this law, its implementing acts and internal rules under art. 101, as well as organise, manage and control activities under: 1. collecting, processing, storing and disclosure of information on specific transactions or transactions; 2. collecting evidence concerning the ownership of the property to be transferred; 3. a requirement of information on the origin of the cash or valuables of the transactions or transactions, as well as the source of the property status, in the cases provided for by that law; 4. collecting customer information and maintaining accurate and detailed documentation of their operations with cash or valuables, including the information and documents under art. 6 of the Currency Act; 5. provision of the information collected under point 5. 1 of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 72. (2) Specialized services under para. 1 shall be led by an employee of the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 t. 1, 3, 5 and 8 "11" holding a senior position. The Head of the Specialized Service shall be responsible for carrying out internal control of the implementation of the obligations under this Law and its implementing rules, except where those functions are performed by the persons managing and representing the persons referred to in Article. 4 t. 1, 3, 5 and 8 "11" or assigned to another senior official. The appointment of the functions of another employee shall be carried out in accordance with the order of art. 107, para. 3... 5........................................................................... (3) Specialized services under para. 1 shall be established by written act of the persons managing and representing the persons referred to in Article 1. 4 t. One, three, five, and eight, eleven. (4) Specialized services under para. 1 shall be established within 4 months of the issue of the licence or authorisation to carry out the activity concerned or from the entry in the relevant register. (5) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. One, three, five, and eight, are due within 7 days of the appointment or change of the employee under para. 2 to inform the Directorate-General for Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of the employee's names and to provide contact details. Under art. 107 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 107: Art. 107. (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 2, 4, 6, 7, 12 "27 and 29 " 32" establish specialized services under the terms and conditions of art. 106 or carry out the internal control of the performance of their duties under this law and its implementing rules in person. (2) If a specialized office is not established, the internal control of the fulfilment of the obligations under this law and its implementing rules shall be carried out by the persons referred to in Article. 4 t. 2, 4, 6, 7, 12 - 27 and 29 - 32 - of those who manage and represent them, respectively. (3) In the cases under para. 2 persons under art. 4 t. Two, four, six, seven, 12, 27, and 29, 32, respectively, those who manage and represent them may designate by written act a senior official to carry out internal control of the fulfilment of the obligations under this law and its implementing rules. (4) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall be notified of the persons carrying out the control under para. 2, as well as for employees under para. 3 in the order of art. 106, para. 5. (5) The duties of the employees under para. 3 arise after notification under para. 4. (6) Alinei 1? 5 shall be applied by the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 who do not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 in the cases referred to in art. 98, para. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u26	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Section....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 106 and the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 107. Vote 96 MPs: 80, none, abstention 16. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u27	"Chapter 9 " Control of the activities of the debtors. " The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109, as in para. 2 the words supposed to be used the aid ofsupplied shall be replaced by supposed to be used. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 110: Art. 110. (1) The inspected person shall be obliged to assist the control bodies by: 1. receives against signature the order to carry out the verification; 2. provides a place for the inspection and appears upon request in the offices of the State Agency. 3. appoint a contact officer and assist the control bodies; 4. provide access to the business premises; 5. provide within the time limit set by the control authorities, all documents, references, extracts and other information necessary to establish facts and circumstances relating to the scope and subject matter of the verification; 6. upon request shall provide within the time limit specified by the control authorities, certified copies of documents, and the certification shall be carried out with an indication of the original, date and signature by a legal or authorised representative of the person checked, as well as a stamp of the person under art. 4; 7. provide, upon request, within the time limit laid down by the control authorities, written and oral explanations of circumstances relating to the subject-matter of the verification; (2) All documents, information, references, extracts and written explanations required for the purposes of the checks under art. 108, para. 3 shall be provided by the inspected person in Bulgarian. Documents in a foreign language shall be presented together with a translation into Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u28	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Ninth, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 108, which is supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 109 with the replacement which the Commission proposes, in para. 2 and the version of the Commission of the text of art. 110. Vote 96 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u29	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 112: Art. 112. The state and local authorities and their employees are obliged to assist the control bodies of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security in the performance of their functions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113, and in it the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 115: Art. 115. (1) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall determine the risk for the purpose of carrying out the checks under art. 108, para. 3 in the application of the approach under art. 114, para. 1. (2) For the purposes of art. 108, para. 6 identification of the risk in the application of the approach under art. 114, para. 1 shall also be carried out by the supervisory authorities. (3) In applying the approach under art. 114, para. 1 shall take into account the results of the national risk assessment referred to in Article 1. 95, para. 1 as well as the results of the supranational risk assessment and the recommendations of the European Commission under art. 95, para. 2. (4) For the purposes of art. 114, para. 1 Directorate of Finance Intelligence and the supervisory authorities shall exchange statistical and other data and information on the specific persons who fall under the supervision of the relevant authority under conditions and by order laid down by a joint instruction to enable effective implementation of the powers under para. 1 and 2. (5) For the purposes of art. 114, para. 1 as regards the persons referred to in art. 4 t. The exchange of information shall comply with the guidelines for carrying out supervision based on risk-based supervision adopted pursuant to art. Article 48 (10) of Directive (EU) 2015/849. (6) In determining the risks the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security may also use information from a competent supervisory authority, security and public order services, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Customs Agency, the European Supervisory Authorities, the European Commission, the competent authority of another State and reliable public sources of information. (7) The exchange of data and information under para. 4 as well as the provision of information under art. 114, para. 2 may not be refused or restricted for reasons of professional, banking, commercial or professional secrecy. (8) The information received may be used only for the purposes of art. 114 and cannot be made available to third parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u30	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 111, supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission, of the text of art. 112, the text of the importer for art. 113 with the replacement of the text proposed by the Commission for the text in art. 113; the text of the importer for art. 114, supported by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission, of the text of art. 115. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 16. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u31	Chapter 10 of the Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. Under art. 116 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 116: Art. 116. (1) Whoever commits or allows a violation of art. Art. 7, Art. Art. 9, Art. 11, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 12, Art. 22, Art. 24 "31," art. Art. 33, Art. 60, Art. Art. 65 - 69, Art. 72, para. 1.. 3 and 5. 7......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 73, para. Art. 1, art. 74, para. Art. 1, Art. 5 and 11, Art. 76, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 80, Art. 87, para. Art. 4, Art. 101, para. Art. 11, art. 106, para. 2, 4 and 5, Art. 107, para. Art. 4, Art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 1 and Art. 1 111, para. 1 if the act does not constitute a crime, it shall be punishable by: 1. fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN when the intruder is a natural person; 2. a penalty from 2000 to 20 000 BGN when the intruder is a legal person or a sole trader; 3. a financial penalty from 5000 to 50,000 BGN when the intruder is a person under art. 4 t. 1-6 and 8-11. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 The penalty is: 1. 1, t. 1 - fine from 2000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. BGN 2 - a sanction from 5000 to BGN 50 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 times para. 1, t. 3 000 to 200 000 BGN. (3) For systemic violations under para. 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty shall be: 1. 1, t. 1 - fine from 5000 to 2 000 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. BGN 2 000 to BGN 2 000 000. or to the double amount of the benefit of the infringement if the infringement can be established; 3 times para. 1, t. 2 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. or up to 10 per cent of the annual turnover, including gross income according to the consolidated report of the final parent undertaking for the preceding year, consisting of claims on interest and other similar income, income from shares and other variable or fixed income securities and claims on commissions and/or charges. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 117: Art. 117. (1) Fines under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 shall also be imposed on a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 under this law and its implementing rules, where those persons have committed or admitted or participated in an infringement under art. 116, para. 1. (2) For systemic infringements under art. 116, para 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty is: 1. fine from 5000 to 2 000 000 lv. If the offender is a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12.. 35 as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12 "35" under this law and its implementing rules, where those persons have committed or admitted, or participated in an infringement under art. 116, para. 1; 2. fine from 10 000 to 10 000 000 BGN when the intruder is a person who manages and represents a person under art. 4 t. 1 "6" and 8 "11" as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8. 11 under this law and its implementing rules when those persons committed or admitted or participated in an infringement under art. 116, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u32	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 10a, which is supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission, in the text of art. 116; and the creation of a new art. 117 with a text which was presented by the rapporteur on a proposal from the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 71, none, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u33	Under art. 117 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117, which becomes Art. 118: Art. 118. (1) Whoever commits or allows to commit a breach of this law outside the cases under art. 116, para. 1 and beyond the cases referred to in art. 11, para. 4 "6" and under art. 101, para. 1 sentence 2 or the Rules of Procedure for its application, if the act does not constitute a crime, shall be punished by: 1. fine from 500 to 5000 BGN when the intruder is a natural person; 2. a penalty from 1000 to 10 000 BGN when the intruder is a legal person or a sole trader; 3. a financial penalty from 2000 to 20 000 BGN when the intruder is a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8.. 11. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 The penalty is: 1. 1, t. 1 - fine from 1000 to 10 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. BGN 2 - BGN 2000 - BGN 20 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 times para. 1, t. 3 is a sanction from 5000 to 50 000 BGN. (3) For systemic violations under para. 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty shall be: 1. 1, t. 1 - fine from 2000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. BGN 2 - a sanction from 5000 to BGN 50 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 times para. 1, t. 1 000 to 100 000 BGN. (4) Person under art. 61, para. 1 or under art. 62, para. 1 which, after being punished with a fine or a penalty under para. 1 for non-compliance with an obligation to apply for entry of the data under art. 63, para. 4 shall not apply within the specified time limit, shall be punished under para. 1 each month until the entry is declared. (5) Physical contact person under art. 63, para. 4 t. 3 which failed to fulfil its obligations under art. 61 or 62 is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 200 to 2000 BGN The Commission proposes to create a new art. 119: Art. 119. (1) Fines under art. 118, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 shall also be imposed on a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 under this law and its implementing rules, where those persons have committed or admitted or participated in an infringement under art. 118, para. 1. (2) For systemic infringements under art. 118, para. 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty shall be: 1. fine from 2000 to 20 000 lv. If the offender is a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12.. 35 as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12 "35" under this law and its implementing rules, where those persons have committed or admitted, or participated in an infringement under art. 118, para. 1; 2. fine from 5000 to 50 000 BGN when the intruder is a person who manages and represents a person under art. 4 t. 1 "6" and 8 "11" as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8. 11 under this law and its implementing rules when those persons committed or admitted or participated in an infringement under art. 118, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under art. 118 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 118, which becomes art. 120: Art. 120. (1) Whoever fails to comply with mandatory instructions issued under the terms and conditions of this law and the rules for its application or fails to comply with the deadline for their implementation shall be punished by the penalties under art. 118, para. 1 and 2. (2) Person under art. 4 t. 28 which does not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 which does not comply with mandatory instructions under art. 11, para. 7 or under art. 101, para. 12, or did not meet the deadline for their execution, is punished with a penalty from 1000 to 10 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 2000 to 20 000 BGN. (3) Person managing and representing a person under art. 4 t. 28 which does not both fall into another category of persons under art. 4 shall be punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 200 to 2000 BGN when this person has committed or committed the infringement under para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119, which becomes Art. 121, as in para. 1 after the words "supplied in" is added to "supplied in" in para. 4 the words "In the cases of...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u34	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version which the Commission proposes, in the text of art. 117, which becomes Art. 118; the creation of a new art. 119 with a text which was presented by the rapporteur on a proposal from the Commission; the version which the Commission proposes to art. 118, which becomes art. 120; and the text of the importer for art. 119, which becomes Art. 121 with the replacements in the text proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 71, against 1, abstention 13. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u35	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 120, which becomes art. 122: Art. 122. (1) The State Agency shall publish in a timely manner on its official website information on criminal decrees which impose penalties for violations of this law and its implementing rules. The publications shall contain information on the intruder, the type and nature of the infringement and the type and extent of the sanction imposed. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be published in a summary form when the President of the State Agency of National Security considers that publication: 1. personal data for a natural person to whom a sanction has been imposed shall be disproportionate to the purpose of this law or of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism; 2. may jeopardise the stability of the financial markets or pending criminal proceedings; 3. may cause excessive damage to the affected persons. (3) The publication under para. 1 shall be postponed for an appropriate period if the circumstances under para. Two down. (4) The publication of summary information under para. 2 shall not be carried out where the President of the State Agency of National Security considers that such publication would prevent the stability of the financial markets. (5) The assessment under para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and para. 4 shall be carried out on the basis of a written opinion submitted to the President of the State Agency by the relevant authority for the supervision of the activities of the sanctioned person. The opinion is made available to the President of the State Agency "National Security" within 14 days of his request. (6) The published information shall be available on the official website of the State Agency for National Security at least 5 years. (7) The Department of Finance Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security shall inform the European Supervisory Authorities of all charges imposed on persons under art. 4 t. 11 administrative penalties for violations of this law and its implementing rules, including for any appeal against them and its results.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u36	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to art. 120, which becomes art. 122. Vote 78 MPs: 65, none, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u37	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121, which becomes Art. 123: Art. 123. (1) The actions for the identification of infringements shall be drawn up by the control bodies of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence and by the State Agency of National Security and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the President of the State Agency of National Security or by an official authorised by him. (2) The acts establishing the infringements of art. 63, para. The Executive Director of the Agency shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 122, which becomes Art. 124: Art. 124. (1) Person under art. 117, para. 1 to which a fine has been imposed with an effective criminal decree under Article 1. 117, para. 2 shall not hold a senior management position in the case of a person referred to in Article 2. 4 for a period of one year. (2) Person under art. 119, para. 1 to which a fine has been imposed with an effective criminal decree under Article 1. 119, para. 2 shall not hold a senior management position in the case of a person referred to in Article 2. 4 for a period of three months. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 125, like in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124, which becomes Art. 126: Art. 126. When a person by art. 4 fails to fulfil its obligations under art. 101, para. Art. 7, Art. Art. 102, Art. 103, para. Art. 2 or art. No. 104, para. 2 as well as in the case of detected infringements under art. 116, the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, can ask the person to stop the infringement and to take specific measures necessary to remove it by setting a deadline for their appointment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125, which becomes art. 127, and in it the words. Art. 123 and under Art. 124, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): Article 125 and under art. 126...............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version which the Commission proposes, in the text of art. 121, which becomes Art. 123; the version proposed by the Commission, in the text of art. 122, which becomes Art. 124; the text of the importer for art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 125 with the replacement in the text proposed by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission to art. 124, which becomes Art. 126; and the text of the importer of art. 125, which becomes art. 127 with the replacement in the text proposed by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 68, against 2, abstention 13. The proposals are accepted. Thank you, Mr. Nunev. We've reached the additional provisions. Dear colleagues, on the eve of the day of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and the victims of the Holocaust, at 11.30 in the northern foyer will be presented the collection of the unforgotten persons of salvation...................................... All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. I'm adjourned. Beginning parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u39	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 2 s 8 March 2018 from: - National Representative Krasimir Yankov to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, concerning the Ministry of Interior's personnel policy. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 March 2018; - MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lyubomir Bonev, Stanislav Vladimirov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the field of heat supply. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 March 2018. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question of the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Emil Hristov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on two questions from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Georgi Gokov and Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. We'll start with parliamentary control. Krasimir Karakachanov will be the first to respond to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov about the construction of an Integrated Centre for Vocational and Military Training. You have the floor, Mr. Pawnov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u40	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! During the period after the removal of the military assembly service, the contingent of 18-year-olds who have neither military training nor civic profession and some of them have secondary education is increased annually. Thus, dozens of young people remain unemployed and realized on the street, which inevitably leads to an increase in domestic crime and an increase in social tensions in individual areas of the country, such as the riots in Asenovgrad last year and the two violent murders committed by young people in Varna and Aytos at the beginning of this year. In relation to what has been said and given Bulgaria's adverse demographic outlook for the next 20 years, all this clearly requires the taking of today's very serious measures by the government to prevent a collapse in the country's national security. In this context, it is necessary to establish an Integrated Centre for Vocational Military Training with the exported affiliates as needed in the major cities, the Ministry of Defence, where young people wishing to receive a civic profession and specific military training are volunteered. This can solve the above problems very much. The greatest advantage of such a form of training is that it will not only help the country's defence ability, but will give a profession to many young people, especially with a lower educational rate, and it will be in the framework of several months of training. The construction of such an Integrated Centre implies the availability of an equipped educational and material base, qualified management and teaching staff and good programming and material and technical provision. Such serious personnel, material and financial resources currently do not have the Ministry of Defence. The in-depth analysis carried out by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Ministry of Education and Science and an expert group of the former construction troops and the Higher Construction School (Lyuben Karavelov) show that the solution is in use of real existing opportunities of the best labor education and qualification school in Bulgaria, namely GUSW. The construction forces in which more than 60% of our country's construction personnel have been trained in 2000 are taking over the construction of the country. In them every year, 10,000 young people received military training and a civic profession in 40 specialties. It is important to note that nearly 30% of them were Roma and they took a worthy place in the construction sector of Bulgaria. Along with this, about 2,000 youths graduated each year in over 50 specialized courses. That is why quite well-deservedly distinguished intellectuals and scientists rightly called them the "True-Educational Forces." GUSW today is the only office in Bulgaria that has training programmes in 40 specialties covering nearly 200 deficit professions. The company is one of the few active structures in Bulgaria with the potential of needed personnel and extensive experience and readiness to immediately reveal the necessary training centers for voluntary vocational and military training. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] During the various periods of its existence GUSW was directly subordinate to the Council of Ministers, to the Ministry of Construction and to the Ministry of Defence, and in the composition of the latter it was 17 years. Today the situation has changed radically. Following its transformation into a trading company in 2011, with 100% State participation, the rights of the State are exercised by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, but due to the existing objective and subjective legalitys, the company is no longer an equal entity of the construction market, decapitalises and is a secluded construction activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u41	One minute more, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u42	I'm graduating. It is necessary to implement a healing program within a few months and to clear the obligations of GUSB. This could only be done by the Department of Defense. Of particular importance in this case are the opinions of specialists and, in particular, Professor Todor Tanev of the Ministry of Education, sent to you in January.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u43	You will continue with the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u44	My question to you is: do you maintain the proposal of the specialists regarding the development of the Ministry of Defence under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence, and if so, what actions will you take for its realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Pawnov, you know that we have been talking with you specifically about this since the past National Assembly. Indeed, both Construction Forces and Time BOOKs fulfilled not only the opportunity for young people without education to stop their military service, to receive the necessary literacy, including educational, but also to obtain a profession. In this way, tens of thousands of young people without the necessary education, stopping their military service, also acquired a profession through which they could find realization in their civilian life and earn their livelihood in an honorable way, not like now with thefts and robberies and forgetting the Bulgarian language. One of the functions that played this social and noble role, if you will, was GUSW. Unfortunately, if you remember, in 1998, the first crime was committed with the closure of Building Forces to please someone again, because they were discriminatory, there the selection was on some special basis. No, the selection in Construction Forces was based on whether you were literate or not. When you're not literate, you pull over with a pickaxe and a shovel, you learn jobs, then you're useful to society, to yourself, and you become an honest citizen. After that, the Defense Assistance Organization was destroyed. There, however, the ambition was to privatize in some way the enormous assets of the Defence Assistance Organisation, which trained young people and enabled them to acquire a specialty or subsequently even a military profession. Anyway, the same thing happened to GUSW. I'm familiar with your idea. We have spoken with you in the past National Assembly, I share it. This is the right approach so that those young people who, as you very rightly mentioned, and you said that they do not have secondary education, but, unfortunately, a huge percentage of young people in the slums and in certain areas of the country do not have primary education and there is no need to go around the regions of Bulgaria to see it, it is enough to watch the reports on television. Including last night, some people who claim to be something cannot speak a normal Bulgarian language, but without normal speaking in the official language in the country, without normal education and a normal profession, you cannot pretend that you want to be equal to others. From this point of view, your proposal is reasonable. You remember that in the previous term we spoke with the then regional minister. I personally believe that your idea is reasonable, but that is why it is necessary: firstly, the decision of the Council of Ministers and secondly, the necessary means to implement such a programme. If you remember in the last parliament, I was the importer of a law on military service, which envisioned illiterate youths who could not use weapons, precisely in this educational work that could be organized for them during their compulsory military service, to receive exactly those qualities that you list as having none. That didn't happen then. It's a good idea because it also has its social effect. On the one hand, it would give an opportunity to integrate a small part of society, which unfortunately, in the last 27 years has learned that it has rights, has claims to the state, but does not want to understand that, apart from rights, in this country, every citizen has obligations to respect the law and not steal other people's property, to work to eat, not to wait for social benefits. This is a side topic from your question, but the point is this. I've had talks with Minister Nankov. That's a good idea. The question is to do or to use what has been developed by this team is a few years ago, to update it and to try to provide the necessary funds for a similar programme. It would be extremely useful. However, there is no way that this could go in the form of an assembly service, as there is none. These can be training centers. Personally, I believe that such training centres can not only be at the Ministry of Defence, but even, if you will, to the Social Ministry, for the simple reason that it is practically social activity. For me, it is not essential whether this will be under the Ministry of Defence's office or the Social Ministry's office or the Regional Ministry's office. The question is this idea, which has a very strong logic, especially in terms of literacy and giving a profession to those young people who do not want to learn or have missed this opportunity, have no profession and stand on social funds, and people who work and have taken the trouble to learn fill. That's a good idea. I say again: at the moment, a conversation has been made with Minister Nankov. Whether exactly in the form of GUSW, since it is there, the model is similar. There's bread in that idea. It's a good thing you're asking that question. I'll continue my conversations with my colleagues in this direction. I rely, of course, on your cooperation and on the specialists who worked for this programme, so that we can present to the Council of Ministers and the public something reasonable, literate, with which to convince the whole society of its benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u47	Thank you. Mr. Pawnov, you have the opportunity to ask your supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u48	Mr. Karakachanov, I am partly pleased with your answer because we have had these talks in the previous National Assembly. We were at one point when it was found that the Ministry of Regional Development did not have the necessary capacity. I asked a similar question to Minister Nankov on 15 December when he replied that at this stage they could not deal with this problem. It is no coincidence that my question is directed at you, because at this stage you have an unfulfilled idea of optional voluntary service. With what is offered in this centre, they will not only obtain a profession, but also those who are illiterate will receive an education, they will receive a minimum military training which is essential for our national security. This is one stage from which you have to start to realize the other idea of yours. I would like to say to you that there is enough money if the GWWS is being reorganised have about 96 million assets that are currently seeking to be cut into scrap, sold and liquidated. I therefore believe that, on your suggestion, the Ministry of Defence has the opportunity to do everything in the Council of Ministers, and you to become the principal of the Council of Ministers. With the building school's base, the ready programs, the necessary footage, the material base they have, as well as the possibility of finding money under European programs, this idea can be realized a little later I will give you what the building school has. I believe that you, as Minister of Defence, can implement it, which will benefit both those young people who have no education and profession and our own country itself, which will bring them into the turnover of the labour market and with the corresponding military training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Pawnov, if you remember two years ago, when we commented on the topic, the idea was to be under the auspices of the Social Ministry as it would perform social functions. I don't mind your argument, but there is one problem here. Since it was not accepted two years ago, our proposal for a set of military service could then be legally and legitimately implemented by these people in the form of labour-educational guilt, now we are talking and working for a voluntary military service project. I mean, you can't force these people to do it. It can only be voluntary. I stress that even if the Law that prepares the Ministry of Defence for voluntary military service, which is part of the management program, this must still be voluntary. With regard to your logic, which auspices should be given to GUSV, it is logical, sound logic and it deserves the conversation to continue. I agree that the effect will be extremely useful for society, but there must also be thought of mechanisms by which the state will oblige such people to undergo training, as we will now leave it voluntarily. I will only tell you that the interest for those who currently do not work is a large part of them receiving disability pensions, without being deserving of them, where they are called to find the Banica soft and take advantage of the extremely liberal behavior and attitude of state institutions to live on the basis of social funds, although they have the physical opportunity to work. It will be difficult to make them if we do not change more things in terms of all the benefits that one gets, which is lifelong unemployed. If you offer one such person a job once and he refuses because it is more profitable for him to lie on the social funds, if you offer him a second time and the third time you already stop him because he is obviously a rich man who, after offering him an honest job at a firm for 500, 600 or 400 leva even, but he prefers to live by sharpening the social funds. He's a rich man. Then you can oblige him to go through such training. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] When you, Mr. Iankov, should have taken responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u51	Please, no lines in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u52	...in the last parliament to vote for the military service, your entire parliamentary group left, not to say like a bus. Please! Then you didn't take responsibility. You have voted against the Defence Committee and the Chamber. So very please, I take the initiative and accept Mr. Pawnov's idea, and I accept your friendly banter, but it is not appropriate, as the guilt, as it is said, is in your hands. Mr. Pawnov, I agree. Mr. Nankov is available. After I got the question, I reminded him of the subject and said I had a conversation. It's available and we can continue the conversation. The idea is extremely good and will have a useful effect on society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov. Yours is the last word on this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u54	Mr. Minister, I want to tell you that you talk more about Roma than about Bulgarian citizens. Here I have a petition for benefits, disability pensions and so on. I also have one of the Municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv District in support of the proposal for the opening of the Center for Vocational Training by the Center for Vocational Training in the territory of the town of Plovdiv. All those who have signed up agree with the idea of volunteering to be involved in order to be able to train, to receive an education. In addition, I absolutely prepared to give you what GUSW has as a material base. I think we can make this idea work for the benefit of society. [[The National Representative Aleksandar Paunov submitted material to Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. The word for a declaration on behalf of a group is Mr. Veselin Mareshki. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! You have spoken in the previous National Assembly, and now you will speak in the next and nothing will happen. That's the problem, and the solution is to stop talking and start acting. However, I take the floor on a matter to which, as a politician and as a citizen of Bulgaria, I can not remain silent. Last night, in the broadcast, a face-to-face member of bTV, the national representative from "Attack" Volen Siderov did something absolutely unacceptable for a member of parliament, even more leader of a parliamentary party. In his attempts to condemn the ridiculous statements of his partner Valeri Simeonov regarding the Russian Patriarch Kiril, Siderov surpassed him. I will quote his words literally so that there is no doubt: "Imagine the Deputy Prime Minister of Bulgaria saying something about Israel's chief rabbi. He's like that, he's like that, he's like that, he's like that. Over. He ceases to exist as a political personality, and notice, perhaps physically. I don't know what would have followed. " - This is the end of the quote. Can you imagine, colleagues, the head of a parliamentary party is suggesting that any Bulgarian politician's statement against the Russian Patriarch will follow nothing, but if it is against the rabbi, his physical removal can be expected?! We wanted to ask him, but because he's missing, we'll ask him the question indirectly. What would follow, Mr. Siderov? Are you suggesting that a spiritual leader will commit murder? Do you even know what you're saying? Is this your patriotism to expose Bulgaria with every word? Colleagues, we at the Volja House believe that as responsible and mature people, we all in this House are obliged to make a decision in which to distinguish ourselves from such a crazy position. The Parliamentary Group of Volja "Proposes the National Assembly to adopt a declaration that will officially distinguish itself from the words of Siderov. We must do so in order to protect the authority not only of parliament but also of the state. If we keep this quiet, we become accomplices to a madness that once again plays out in front of our eyes. I expected from the parliamentary group of the United patriots as quickly as against Valeri Simeonov's statement to come up with a declaration to distinguish themselves from Volen Siderov's statement. As you can see, it didn't follow. You remember another disease that had spread. We are warning you a long way because tomorrow someone will come out and say such ridiculousness against the Dalai Lama, will say against the president............. won't like the president of any country. This thing is unacceptable and we, as a parliament, as parliamentarians, as citizens of Bulgaria, must distinguish ourselves. Therefore, our proposal will be on Wednesday at the Conference of Presidents to look at these things and, with one strong statement, to condemn them, to distinguish ourselves and to ask......... we cannot tell anyone how far they can go in their madness, but such things can no longer be spoken in the public domain. Thank you very much, and I hope we can all unite around this for a strong Bulgarian state position.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u57	It was a declaration on behalf of a group. Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Next, a question from the MP Petar Vitanov concerning a public contract for four propeller light aircraft. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! By Decision No 7 of 17 January 2018, the Minister of Defence opened a procurement procedure with the name of the Ministry of Defence for a period of 48 months for the delivery of light propeller-training aeroplanes and their accompanying supplies and services. According to the procedure by March 12th, willing companies must submit the documentation. This order aims to buy for the Air Force four light propeller training airplanes with a gallon of 400 hours per aircraft per year or a total of 1600 hours per year, a trainer to aeroplanes and supplies. It is clear from the published documentation that the value of the contract is 2,5 million. lv. It is logical to ask ourselves: Is it appropriate to purchase these planes from an economic point of view, since the need of the Bulgarian Air Force by pilots is between five and ten per year? In addition, Georgi Benkovski Air Force Training Base in the town of Lower Metropolitan and 24th Transport Air Base and currently have a sufficient number of flight training techniques. These are the Pilates PC-9M aircraft, six units; the L-39 aircraft, six units in Lower Metropolis; Pilates aircraft PS-12; one number in Hostile; and the Bell-206 helicopters six units in Krumovo, or a total of 19 pieces for initial training and advanced training. In electronic media, publications have already appeared that there is a corruption risk because the technical specification for the procedure is manipulated for the benefit of a particular aircraft, which is known for the high degree of emergency, unreliableness and denials. In relation to the above, Mr Minister, I would like to ask the following question: what combat capabilities will be achieved with the purchase of civil sports aircraft for air acrobatics? How does their acquisition fit into the policy of the Ministry of Defence for modernization of the country's armed forces? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vitanov, it is not true that the characteristics are only responsible for the requirement of one aircraft. Airplanes with the specified characteristics, namely a landing gear with a nose wheel and bearing characteristics specified in the technical specification, are produced by many other manufacturers in the UK, also Whether it is necessary, frankly, if I were you, I would first ask the Supreme Commander, who was a candidate from BSP, and he would explain to you why and what is the practice in the Bulgarian army. With the current Air Force training system, the requirement for pilots to study for a new type of combat aircraft is to have mainly flight training on training and training aircraft with a total navity of 200 flight hours. Consequently, during the flight training, qualification and performance of combat tasks, day and night, in all weather conditions shall be acquired after reaching a navel of at least 350 flight hours and these 350 flight hours shall be distributed approximately in the following adjusted ratio between the different aircraft types. A hundred and twenty hours on a RS-9M plane, 80 hours on L-39, 150 hours on MiG-29 jets or SW-25. This is the practice in most countries, there are exceptions, for example Britain does not use such practice, does not use a propeller plane, but this is the practice in the Bulgarian army. I'm not going into all the other specs that list the Air Force colleagues. To conclude your question, I will answer the following. What is done as a specification and order is at the request of the Air Force leadership. However, the truth, after your question has been received, after the question you have asked and the complaint received, is that I have ordered a complete inspection of the preparation and actions of the officials of the Ministry of Defence in the conduct of the public procurement and if it is found that errors have been made................................................................ The truth is that the arguments you use are not such a practice and this is not necessary, there is such a practice and this is the practice in our Air Force. Then switch to L-39 and so on, and to jet planes. There's practice. Your doubt is reasonable, as far as there is a complaint, albeit formal. Again, I have ordered a complete inspection of the technical specification, the actions of the specialists who have prepared the order and, if it is found that there are violations of the order, the order will be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues, I have not mentioned in my presentation that there is no such practice, there are rather three types of questions in the entire case which are, to say the least, disturbing. The first one to buy sports-acrobatics is, in my opinion, absurd waste of money. We have a Pilates that is completely expendable. After all, these are two-seat planes whose greatest value is that they can do acrobatical numbers. All of this is against the background of critical condition, especially of the country's flight equipment and the presence of 19 aircraft initial training techniques. The second thing that really bothers me is the technical specification. It is not my opinion that experts believe that it was designed to win a single firm, in fact, the one that will participate in the Zlin-242 aircraft. Notoriously known and this is the third fact that these Zlin planes have no military value. They are designed for sports tourist purposes, air acrobatics and aerodynamics. These planes are known for the high degree of emergency, unreliableness and refusals, which is reported by a number of specialized editions and by air transport organisations. These are the three questions that are seriously bothering me and were an excuse to ask you this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u64	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vitanov, I answered you. That's where the pilot training begins. It's an Air Force requirement. At the moment, we have also spent money on Pilates, and not a bit of money, right at the end of the year. But when you get a request from the Air Force after they've argued, I can't come up with your arguments and tell them, "Sorry, but these propellers perform tourist-acrobatic numbers." It won't be serious. Again, there is a similar practice of training pilots on these types of aircraft. What I can do, and I have stated it clearly and categorically, is that if mistakes are made, intentionally or unintentionally, although I say again, they do not only respond to the specification of one aircraft, if such errors are made, it is ordered because we have received your question. Now I will not say what the preliminary results are, but if there are similar errors made, this order will be cancelled under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Not for any other reason, but for the simple reason that my logic is to have real competition so that the Ministry of Defense can negotiate prices for itself. With your argument that we do not need these planes, I would not agree, because in terms of what technique is needed, however, I trust more the military expertise of the Air Force colleagues. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u65	Allow me to thank Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov for his participation in the parliamentary control today. We continue with the answers of Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He will answer a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Tsvetan Topchiev about the systematic destruction of fields and agricultural production of pasture animals. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u66	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! We received complaints about the systematic destruction of fields and agricultural production of pasture animals left to move out of control by their owners. The fact is that such cases are everywhere in the country and they are becoming more and more frequent. The fact is that people feel insecure and worried about the harvest they are waiting to take from the field, and now, especially when it is spring season, people either have settled or are about to sow, but are insecure about what they will collect from the field. These concerns are really becoming more frequent. They want to feel themselves and their production secure. In this regard, in meetings in Karlovski region we received many signals, in Vidin district too. Regarding the seriousness of the problem, our question to you is: what is the attitude towards these problems? How do you see its resolution and what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u67	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u68	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, dear Mr. Topchiev, yes, there is certainly such a problem. As you know, he is in the prerogatives and control of the local authorities. The Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property provides for the protection of this property from damage, destruction, spillage, theft and embezzlement, as well as the order for compensation for the damage caused. Under the same law, the mayors of the municipalities organize, manage and control the conservation of agricultural property in the territory of the municipality, organize and manage the Polish guards, seek the offenders, impose administrative penalties and take measures to recover from the damage. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 18, Art. 26 of the Law lays down the order by which the damage and damage to agricultural property, determination of the nature and extent of the damage, and the amount of compensation. According to the provisions in force so far, damage to agricultural property is to be established on application of damage or service by an act which is drawn up by an employee authorised by the mayor of the municipality or by a mayor. Under the requirements of the Veterinary Practice Act, the legislator has provided for mayors and mayors to take measures to prevent the free movement of animals in the streets of settlements and determine the route of movement of animals from flocks in the streets of settlements. In view of the above, the preservation of agricultural property legislation has fully signed in the power of the local administrative authority. In establishing the unlawful entry of agricultural animals into agricultural land, owners should address their complaints to the mayor of the municipality concerned. There is no doubt that the legislation fully directs control of the mayors. It's not a doubt that the Ministry's services couldn't handle it, and everything else is being handled. I've had a lot of conversations with mayors. Currently there is a bill, perhaps passed at first reading, suggesting a double increase in sanctions both in the first damage and in the second time. What could we do? Together with the mayors, the Ministry could assist in an information campaign on the subject. Undoubtedly, mayors must strengthen their role and their organisation within this control with effective sanctions in order to have a deterrent effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u69	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u70	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I expected a greater commitment from you. Yes, there is a law on conservation of agricultural property, but it is since 1974. There are terms such as: Municipal People's Council, TTZS, APC and so on. This law is dysfunctional and in practice cannot be used by the mayors. The mayors are transferring responsibility to the state. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall coordinate and manage the activities under this law. This problem really exists and people are worried, as said by colleague Nencheva that they cannot collect their production. I think it would be appropriate for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to engage in the production of a new and functional law that will do the job. I know that it is the European Presidency now you are engaged, but it will pass, and the problem will remain and will concern a lot of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, I would like to hear from you a commitment to the problem and to solve it together. There was indeed such a proposal put in place under the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property at first reading, but it went through September, and now we are the month of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u72	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you. There's no way the Ministry doesn't have commitment. It is certain that this control must once again be to the municipalities. The very pasture activity related to grazing, to electropastes, to the removal of animals through the streets, the order in which they pass must be clearly regulated and clearly controlled. Of course, I make a commitment and I would be grateful both to the BSP parliamentary group and to everyone else for specific proposals so that we can make the Law more working. In this case, under the current regulation, I undertake to verify possible mechanisms. As you know, we are well communicating with the Committee on Agriculture in the face of all colleagues who work so that we can find a better solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u73	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Statement on behalf of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today it is 33 years since the bombing of Bunovo Station. On that day, in 1985, terrorists placed a bomb in the mother car with children on train 326. Due to the delay of the train, the bomb exploded at Bunovo Station, not in the tunnel, as it was calculated. As a result of this disgraceful act eight people were killed, not much more, as would have happened if the explosion had happened in the tunnel. The same day a bomb exploded in the cafeteria of Hotel Sliven in Sliven. The attacks were carried out by members of the pro-Turkish terrorist organization "Turkish national liberation movement in Bulgaria." This and similar organizations aim to commit separatism in Muslim regions to be separated from Bulgaria and connected to Turkey. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen action by the person and in the name of this idea, from an alleged liberal and democratic party, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which has built fountains and monuments of the terrorists and terrorists.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u75	Mr. Bogdanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u76	Today all Bulgarians must condemn this disgraceful act of pro-Turkish terrorism and separatistism and its supporters! We bow our heads before the victims and firmly state that we, the Patriots, will no longer allow such acts of terrorism and separatistism in today's European and civilized Bulgaria! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u77	This was a statement on behalf of a group. We're continuing with parliamentary control. A question from the MP Rumen Gechev about launching and applying under the sub-measure 6.4 of the Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u78	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Porozhanov! How is the preparation and implementation of sub-measure 6.4 implemented by the R & D Department of Agriculture, Food and Forestry through the State Fund of Agriculture implemented and concerning the support of micro-enterprises for the development of non-farming activities in municipalities with rural areas? For the fourth year, I repeat: the fourth year of the new programming period this funding scheme is not open and its main goal is diversification of the economy in the backward rural municipalities. It is known that sub-measure 6.4 is expected from a number of small companies, which, due to the fact that they are in rural municipalities and are micro-enterprises, do not have access to the Operational Programme. Thus, micro-enterprises in the territory of more than 220 of the Bulgarian municipalities are deprived of the opportunity to receive support for their investment projects. This greatly slows down the development of these rural municipalities and deepens the difference between them and the 40 largest municipalities in which the country's business life is concentrated. In last year's Indicative Programme, the opening of sub-measure 6.4 projects was planning for November, but it did not take place. Why? In this year's Indicative Programme, the measure is set to be opened in April and closed in June, i.e. within three months. Is the regulation adopted and published which lays down the conditions and rules for drawing up project proposals and how they are submitted, as well as all the requirements for project proposals? Don't you think that timely information to all potential beneficiaries is a mandatory condition for the full implementation of the competition start for the implementation of the Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u80	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, we are both financiers, so, first of all, I will say another number: two and a half years since the program was opened and approved, not four years. That's not the point. Undoubtedly, in the "Rural Development Policy', priority was given to measures relating to agriculture, measures for the production and processing of agricultural products, and the receptions were focused precisely on them. Already around 75% of this budget, and this is over a billion, has been agreed, of course, in the farming measures of many of the agricultural companies, not to say almost all, because a priority in these criteria is for them to be in rural areas. Non-farming activities are extremely important. I would like to assure you, first of all, that the reception was not made in November because the Farmer's Act, which decided that all admissions should go through the ISAN system in order to ease administrative service, was adopted at the last parliament meeting last year. That was the main reason we started in November. Since then, we've been in shocking preparation and opening of measures. We are already in the adoption of the measure by 4.2, we are already in the adoption of seven Lots by 7.2. These are the measures that are public municipal projects. In two weeks, a young farmer will be opened with about twenty-something euros and in April the measure will be opened together with the foresters for non-agriculture activities. Non-farm activities have four directions of funding. I would just like to point out them: the first one that will be one of the main points of production for different production. The next is in the field of development of services in all sectors of other non-farming activities. The third, which will have a smaller budget, will be aimed at the development of trades and, of course, those aimed at developing towards tourism. Several meetings of the so-called thematic working groups were held, then of the Monitoring Committee, where the criteria were discussed. The first three criteria have been accepted. The tourism measure will be postponed for a while, as there are many proposals and we have a lot of things we need to remove from the point of view of not repeating errors from the previous programming period and especially with accommodation. I won't go into details. I commit that measure 6.4 for non-farming activities will be opened. The guidelines, which provide clarification within all application requirements, shall be published. Yes, the guidelines are not published in one month or less, but three months of admission is sufficient for these projects, which are worth up to 200 thousand euros of subsidy. They are not big projects, but are extremely important for the development of non-farming activities in small municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u81	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor for a reply to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u82	Thank you. My fellow Member, first of all, you said yourself that in November, the programme did not start because something was not adopted in Parliament in December. Well, colleague Porozhanov, you are a ruling coalition. You're out of sync. Could you not coordinate with your own representatives in parliament who have a majority so that the Bulgarian companies are not deceived, who wait more than six months for the opening of the program?! This one, first! Secondly, you didn't exactly answer me on the problem of Operational Programme 6.4, about the problems that we are raising here. The main problem is the timing. You claim three months is enough. We and the companies that are waiting for this Programme argue that they are not enough, as it is about obtaining a building permit, which is preceded by the design itself and depending on the designed object can last for months. The draft by law in force, you know perfectly well that they are coordinated with water supply companies, water supply companies, fire services, which practically takes a month for each of them. Then there are extremely complex procedures during the town halls, there are deadlines for appeals, which may take about six months, according to experts. See what the main problem is: the companies that contacted me claim and assume that some companies may be well informed about the regulation which has not yet been published. It will turn out that dozens of Bulgarian companies waiting for the regulation will receive it at the last minute and for legal reasons they will not be able to prepare their investment projects in three months, I repeat, which should have received a building permit, which will not happen in three months. In this regard, we believe that there is a danger that companies close to power will benefit. I assure you, first of all, we will monitor every second when this regulation will be published. Whether you are waiting for April 30, whether on April 1st you will publish it, and then with a team of experts we will monitor a company by company who are ranked and with whom and what are their contacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Porozhanov, would you like a coat? You don't want to. Allow me to thank Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture Food and Forest, for his participation in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with questions to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. He will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev about the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the preparation of Bulgarian athletes for their participation in the winter Olympics. Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the reason for my inquiry were the recently completed Winter Olympics, in which unfortunately Bulgaria could not take any medal. This isn't the first time this has happened. We generally have only six medals at the Olympic Games so far, i.e. the winter Olympics are not the strength of Bulgaria, we have much better results in the summer Olympics, where we also have traditional sports that we work with. After all, I asked you the question about winters because it was the occasion. To be honest, the trends in both winter and summer Olympics are the same sharp decrease. For example, in the summer Olympics in Moscow, true Moscow 1980, when the Olympics were boycotted and cannot be said to be an indicator, there are 41 medals there and therefore we are third in the world. Before that, in 1976, we were ranked seventh in the world in medals. I'm talking about the summer ones still. And after that, if I'm not mistaken in 1988, we're back in seventh place in the world and we have 35 medals. Starting from this number of medals, we come to 65th place in the world of summer Olympics in the last Olympic Games and only three medals, i.e. from one of the leading nations in the sport Bulgaria for those about 30 years has practically become one of the last. In the winter Olympics is not the same ranking, because there have never been particularly strong, although I think we have all the grounds, because we have several very strong winter resorts, we have conditions for training in general. And the fact that these sports are not developing there is, in my opinion, also a matter of state policy. What I wanted to put as a question is: how does it happen that in all the opportunities Bulgaria has, stated, realized in the sport, we now come to a situation where practically years in a row we have zeros as results from the Olympics? Zero medal. We're down, like I said, from 7th place, we don't count the third, 65th in the previous Olympics. Tendentially I asked the question about the three consecutive winter Olympics how many medals we have, first, because this is the time when GERB rules, and this is the time when you, as a representative of this political party and as a minister, should have some responsibility. At the same time, it is clear to me that this result is not the result of these nine or ten years of government, it is the result that there is probably no mass sport, that probably children's and teenage schools are already ruined and so on. That's why my questions are: how many medals do we have for the last three winter Olympics? How much money is invested in preparing athletes? And my most important question: what are the policies that the Ministry will take from now on so that we can have different results from these in Beijing for the next games in 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, at the last three winter Olympics in Turin 2010, in Sochi 2014 and in Pyongchang 2018, Bulgarian athletes have not won medals. Unfortunately, Bulgaria has not had serious traditions in winter sports, as you have just said, with a total of 6 medals won in 23 white Olympiads won by Ivan Lebanov, Ekaterina Dafovska, Irina Nikulcina, Eugenia Radanova. 21 Bulgarian athletes participated in Pyongchang, making our delegation the second largest delegation in the last quarter century after the one in Salt Lake City in 2002. The main commitments of the State in the development of sport are related to the construction of sports infrastructure, financial and scientific provision, control of sports preparation. First of all, it is extremely important to analyse the state of all components related to the Olympic training.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The preparation of all athletes throughout the Olympic cycle and their participation in the games were fully secured. Our elite competitors were given the opportunity to prepare under the best conditions abroad. Under the programs for Olympic training and development of sport for excellence of the Bulgarian Biathlon Federation, the Bulgarian Ski Federation, the Bulgarian Skating Federation, the Bulgarian Ice Hockey Federation and the Bulgarian Sleigh Federation for the period 2007 - 2017 total funds of BGN 29 861 316 were provided. It should be noted that these funds have been spent on athletes of all ages. The activities financed are: preparation, reimbursement, participation in competitions from the state and international sports calendar, purchase of equipment, sports equipment and equipment, rent of sports facilities and facilities, as well as monthly premiums of athletes, coaches, officials. The Olympic Games are only the end of the Olympic four-year cycle, during which are held numerous competitions of the highest rank, where Bulgarian athletes recorded serious rankings. Radoslav Yankov won in 2016. The Great Crystal Globe in the parallel disciplines of snowboarding, in 2017 he finished second in the general ranking and triumphed with the Little Crystal Globe in the parallel giant slalom. In 2017, Jankov had fourth and sixth place in the world championship. Alexandra Zhekova and Vladimir Zografi won gold medals from the Winter Universiade in 2015, and Zhekova has two fourth seats at the World Cup, as well as a victory in a round of the World Cup in the Bordre Cross. Biathlon contestants Vladimir Iliev and Krasimir Anev have over 15 medals and subpoenas from European and world championships and buys. In 2016 Katherine Manoilova in Shortrek and Valentin Miladinov in snowboard won the first medals for Bulgaria at the winter youth Olympics. Just before the Olympic Games in Pyongchang Albert Popov won the bronze medal at the World Championship for Youth in the Alpine Skis. We haven't had that kind of success in over 20 years. A major problem for our winter sports is the poor state of infrastructure. We have less than 200 km of ski slopes, compared to the Czech Republic there are about 7 thousand. km, and in Slovenia, 1800 km. We don't have a professional snowboarding polygon, we don't have ski jumps. On the whole country there are only three slides with standard sizes "The Winter Palace of Sports" in Sofia, the Winter Skating Skating Board of the town of Sofia and the private complex in Kranevo, opened in 2017. The lack of infrastructure is a serious problem in the development of children-youth schools of winter sports, where the sports reserve should come from. Since 2009, huge efforts have been made to build and renovate sports infrastructure in all sports, with a total of over 350 million being invested. lv. For the next winter season the renovation of the Winter Palace of Sports in Sofia will have been completed, which has not been mainly renovated since its launch in 1983. The renovation includes construction and installation activities in the main and training hall of the palace and the introduction of energy-efficient measures and its value is 4 million. lv. without VAT. The National Sports Base bought a new ice rink worth 340 thousand. EUR, which is currently being used for the World Championship in Figure Skating for Teenagers and Girls in Hall "Arena Armeec" and next winter will be held at the stadium "Yunak" in Sofia. The equipment of the Centre of Restoration continues with new equipment to assist the preparation of the athletes from the national teams. In this regard, the State is making efforts for an even greater scope for children practicing winter sports. A target programme was created to support the development of snowboarding, which is funded for the third consecutive year. The program "Learn to ski" is constantly expanding the range of children, with a total of over 30 thousand already covered. The actions of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the future will be aimed at: improving scientific and methodological and medical biologic provision of the preparation of the best athletes; setting up research centres, including the construction of sports engineering centres, prototype development, development of software products, analyses and experimental activities, digital modelling and simulations, instrumental development; validating an Olympic training programme until 2022; establishing expert advice, scientific committees and laboratories with the active participation of specialists from the National Sports Academy and other scientific institutions; widespread penetration of new technologies not only in equipment, but also in the conduct of the control-training process; [[the President signals that time has run out]] validation of a program for systemically improving the qualification of trainers by sport, increasing the effectiveness of complex stage control of contestants and expanding the range of use test batteries to evaluate different countries of preparation; improving sports infrastructure. The funds to be provided to prepare athletes to participate in the next winter Olympic Games in Beijing 2022 are subject to decisions made following the analysis of the programme and training plans of the athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The procedure provides for more time to complete the answer after you are asked two supplementary questions. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u88	Dear Minister, I've done sports and I continue to do only amateurs, so I'm not a specialist in this matter. By asking this question, I had neither the desire nor the idea that I could be purely professionally useful in any way about what you should do. Rather, I come from the perspective of the consumer and of a Bulgarian citizen who sees that it was that there was an opportunity and is currently not there. From this point of view, all those measures that you have listed may be effective. I do not have a real assessment of whether this will lead to real results in the sector. I'm sure we had our opportunities back then. I've been skiing for 40 years, though amateurs. I know we have conditions, though. I see one of the award-winning sports is skiing. He doesn't even need much investment, as far as I understand it, I'm still telling you I'm not a specialist at this. My questions are directed mainly as a citizen. I can't appreciate all of what you've listed, whether it leads to results or not. However, the fact is that what we have as results at the moment is frustrating. It's really bad, especially in recent years. You are now a second term minister. I purposely ask it to you with the clear awareness that you should already be responsible for these things for a year. My main question is specific: do you have a plan? You've listed a bunch of common measures you're going to make. The common policy is okay, it makes sense, but after four years, the Olympics are coming again. If we don't make some concrete plan that we know we're going to do these five-six-seven things, I don't know how many, and they're going to lead us to the fact that there won't be one or two, and for example five medals, that's another. The question is: do you have this plan? Do you have any real idea what we want to do so that on that next Olympics we can change the curve that's going down, it's going up? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u90	Dear Mr. Kutev, thank you for this question and for the discussion we are having. The big problem in the field of sport is that this sector in Bulgarian life has been the hardest through the transition from planned to market economy. You know that before 1990 the state took full care of the needs and needs of the Bulgarian sport. Now the conditions are different, we need the opportunity, we need private capital support. In this regard, we are also preparing the new Law on Sports. I would like to thank you for the active participation of the members of your group who participate, together with everyone, in drafting the law. I hope that we will finally come up with a quality, good product that will satisfy the needs and be the basis for the revival of Bulgarian sport. During these years, the state of sports infrastructure was very difficult. During a very long period of time, we missed the opportunity to take adequate care. I am talking about the entire period of 30 years - different governments, different ministers have made different efforts, depending on the country's economic situation, to restore sports infrastructure. That's where the key is. We also pay extremely much attention to the participation of more research and specialists, more science to have in sport, because this is also an area where we give in to colleagues, athletes and sports structures in more than the countries of the European Union and North America. I hope that with all our efforts to restore the sports infrastructure and the new law, the start will be set for the revival of the Bulgarian sport. We will give private companies for the first time an opportunity to participate actively in the financing of sports activities not only for elite and professional sports, but also for mass sports. The specific measures for each Olympic cycle are made by the national coaches, by the presidents of the federations, so together with them we participate in this process as well as in the preparation of the teams and contestants for the next summer Olympics as well as in the winter. They are preparing a plan-programme that is validated together with our experts. We're working on it from there. It is done that all of these gaps, which have been allowed to be resolved so far, are made possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u92	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u93	The procedure provides for you to take an attitude within two minutes and immediately after that I will give the floor to Mr. Velkov. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u94	Dear Minister, I'm still telling you that I can't tell if what you're offering and what you're thinking will work, it's your job, it's not my job, so I can't judge and tell if it's the real thing. I'd really like it to be because I remember in other times where, by the way, we didn't have the Ministry of Sports. When we had the many medals, we didn't have a ministry. It was a completely different formula, but it was then. I remember that as students, we were chased by all kinds of coaches who almost forced us to work out sometime or with conviction or otherwise. In my class, almost 60 percent of my classmates actually trained. That's what's not happening right now. Nice infrastructure, but it's not just that. There are other things that could be done. Again I tell you: I do not know who they are, this is your job, you must define it, but, knowing that this was possible in this country, and knowing that for Bulgaria sport is an opportunity because at the same time it is an industry. One thing I disagree with is what you have said so far, and that is the role of the state. As much as private capital matters, for me the state has several areas in the life of a society in which it is key. Surely this is the energy, surely this is the infrastructure, but with the same certainty for me it is also the sport. So sports is something that without the state these things can't happen. And that is why this responsibility is specifically yours in this case. Again, I return you: I asked the question Tendentially the last three Olympiads since he managed GERB and in which we do not have a single medal. Yeah, that's trendy. And you can't say that it's only because of this government, because it's accumulated from previous years of unfinished business. But at the same time, you have the responsibility now. And if anyone has to move this process forward, it's you now. I'm really counting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I thank the Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. There are no more questions for Minister Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u96	I ask Minister Kralev to stay for one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u97	Excuse me, it's Mr. Velkov's request. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers, I am excellent with respect to both of them, especially Mr. Kralev, we sometimes see him, although less often in the sports halls. Dear Mr President, I would like to express through you a disappointment that we are in parliamentary control, here on our feet ministers, who are broadcast by the ruling majority, and there are only a few people present, only by these MPs. Perhaps the ratio is three to one, considering that they very often say: "Well, you don't come to work. " Please, Mr President, use your levers and contacts and in any way improve this atmosphere, because it is unacceptable on Friday during parliamentary control to have such a desperate, I would say, presence or a huge absence in this House and it is on the part of the majority. True, stomach calls are strong, love for birthplaces too, but we are MPs, we have working hours. Personally, I have no questions, I have remained out of respect for her colleagues and Mr. Kralev to hear his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. There is hardly anything we can do right now, but at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, I will convey your message and address that you have given today, it will become known to the Assembly's leadership. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u100	Mr. President, through you I would like to address colleagues on the left and the other parliamentary groups, who are currently not in the Chamber to respect the ministers and representatives of the Council of Ministers, but to tell you that a large part of the MPs at the moment and until just now, were to honor the event, which was 75 years since the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews. So I advise my colleagues, when they make speeches and to you, to address them, to check their information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u102	We were there and the event is over!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u103	Colleagues, let's continue with... Is there a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u104	Dear Mr. President, with this procedural appeal to you, I would like to reinforce the demands of my colleague who is observing, and not only him, things in Parliament, especially with regard to parliamentary control, and it is not just today. There may be an event today, but were there such events so far? It is simply that those in this Chamber should not be desperate, and at least we are here to respect the ministers who also deserve respect for their work and those who are here. Parliamentary control is parliamentary control and indeed Parliament's leadership must deal with this situation which is becoming uncontrollable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u105	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova, I have already made a commitment, I confirm it, on Wednesday there will be a comment on the question you have asked. There's no need to comment on the obvious anymore. We continue with parliamentary control. Minister Kralev can be released now, right, Mr. Velkov? Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The question is asked by the National Representative Pencho Milkov. It concerns the need to increase pensions for internship and age. Here you are, Dr. Milkov, you have the floor to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In my weekly meetings with many citizens on the territory of the country, they ask the same question: when will there be a tangible increase in retirement and age pensions, an increase that will enable people to build the world in which we live to live decently at a time when they are no longer able to work and support themselves from their work? In every settlement, every meeting I hear and people turn with hope saying that they live in poverty. Much of the elderly are limited. They restrict their nutrition, restrict their heating, do not buy new clothes and goods. Old people limit themselves because they're poor. More than a million and a half of them receive pensions below the poverty threshold in the country, i.e. below BGN 320. a month. The annual increase in pensions with several leva under the current Swiss rule people, not me, define as a mockery. It does not allow them to actually improve their quality of life. The low amount of pensions does not allow them to live well and dignified. For this reason, I ask the following questions: Do you think that retirement pensions provide good quality of life for elderly people in Bulgaria? Should decisive measures be taken, of what nature, when to significantly increase retirement pensions and age in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, pensions are the main source of income of approximately one quarter of the citizens of the European Union. They are therefore crucial for maintaining the standard of living after retirement and for preventing poverty among the elderly. In this regard, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is pursuing a policy aimed at providing legal and financial opportunities to raise all pensions. This was also one of the main objectives of the pension reform carried out in 2015, which guarantees higher pensions in the future and strengthens the stability of the insurance system, making it more independent and independent from the state budget. Among the most important measures relating to improving the adequacy of pensions is the gradual increase in the burden of one year of insurance service in determining the amount of newly granted pensions from 1 January 2017, providing for from 1.1 per cent that burden to reach 1.5 per cent. The new higher burden of the insurance service shall also recalculate the pensions already granted instead of being updated on the basis of the Order of Art. 100, para. 1 of the Social Security Code. This way of updating the amounts of pensions will be applied until the year in which the rate of severity of the insurance service will reach 1.5 percent. The implementation of these provisions will ensure an increase in the size of newly granted retirement pensions and an age of about 40 percent. The burden of one year of internship shall be determined annually by the State Social Security Budget Act for the relevant year and the percentage shall not be less than the specified increase under the Swiss rule. To recall that for 2017, the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula was 1,126 per cent. In the same way, the burden of one year of insurance service for disability pensions increases, due to a general illness, as well as the coefficients depending on which pensions are determined for occupational accident and occupational sickness. Increasing the size of minimum pensions is another priority in the current government's programme. In this respect, I should recall that in July 2017 the Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017 was adopted on the basis of which the minimum amount of pensions for insurance service and age became BGN 180. from 1 July 2017 and 200 BGN As a result of this change by the end of 2017, the minimum amounts of pensions for employment, including retirement pensions and age, rose by 22.6 percent, with a substantial increase in pensions receiving about 800,000 Bulgarian pensioners. In order to provide support for the lowest-income pensioners in November 2017, the government provided funds for the payment of the so-called Christmas supplements to around one million and two hundred thousand pensioners. The additional amount was paid to pensioners, to whom the pension or the sum of pensions, together with the supplements and compensations to them, for December 2017 was up to 321 BGN, including, i.e. up to the amount of the poverty line for 2018. In July 2018, pensions for work with the higher burden of one year of insurance service will be recalculated again. For 2018, the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula is 1,169 per cent and the rate of increase compared to that in 2017 is 3.8 per cent. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to seek opportunities to raise the incomes of elderly people. However, it should be borne in mind that, despite the desire and efforts made, the implementation of additional measures relating to increasing pensioners' incomes is only possible when there are financial opportunities for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milkov, you will ask, perhaps, additional questions in the format of the reply provided by the Rules. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Petkov, given your response, I can only say the following: the measures that you propose and are taken by the state will be essential for the newly granted pensions, that is said, that we know, given the legislation adopted. But this is what creates the sense of injustice, which is what increases the feeling of poverty, because for the newly released pensions, which have been quoted by an increase of 40 percent, so it happens that people were doing the same work and working the same period in their lives because of the unfortunate fact that they had retired a few years before that, they received dramatically less money than other people standing on the bench in front of the bloc, but they retired these days. Everything you have quoted must be constantly viewed through the figure about the poverty threshold, which is about BGN 320. People who live below the poverty line and are adults, and cannot work any other way, have built a country that has not been poor. And that's why the word in my question was???????????????? It doesn't comfort them at all that the other pensioners who are about to retire will be a little richer. Thank you for your answer, but I really do remain with the hope of finding it in you and in your expert team a way to resolve the issue decisively, differently, because it is clear to me that Europe is ageing, and I am clear that the coefficient of mechanical replacement in Bulgaria is dramaticly cruel. But we are currently challenged to solve these problems, you as a minister and we as MPs, and people are not at all relieved by explaining to them a percentage and a 169 increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u111	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. [[Applause from BSP.]] Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to take an attitude towards the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, I would just like to clarify that what has been said about the increase in the pensions allocated for an increase of 40 percent is provided that all this time is intended to take about ten years to reach a weight of 1.5 percent. Then a newly granted pension, under equal conditions with a pension granted in 2017, when this increase began, should exceed it by about 40 percent. Regarding what you have shared, I also share that for a large part of the elderly, the pensioners, the income they receive from pensions, is insufficient. About 1 million and 200,000 are pensioners whose pension is below the current amount of the line of poverty. for this year. What the government is doing is through the so-called lump sums to support precisely those pensioners, which, as a practice in the previous years, has been found to be twice a year. What is actually possible and in the case of financial resources could be used is that the rate of increase and update of pensions could be higher than what is obtained by the so-called Swiss rule, according to its formula. Bear in mind that measures relating to an increase in pensions in condition, i.e. old pensions, are always linked to a very high financial cost, and the expenditure in the budget of state social security for pensions exceeds 8.5 billion. lv. As you know, the budget of state social security has a large deficit and the measures that have been taken aim to achieve an optimal balance between the adequacy of pension payments and the financial stability of the system. Finally, I would like to quote that the levels of the substitution coefficient, which is the main measure of the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria compared to the average Europeans, are not low. The gross substitution factor is 46 and the net is 59 per cent, so really all these things should be taken into account when assessing the natural desire of both us and the elderly to receive more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the question for you in the framework of today's parliamentary control. Thanks for being a part of this. We are moving on to questions that are referred to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MP Alexander Paunov on the organisation of the work of the Road Police. Here you are, Mr. Pawnov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, dear colleagues! [[Radio.]] Dear Minister, what are the criteria for determining the number of teams and how is the traffic police's work organised for site visits to road accidents? What are the reasons for the continuing waiting of the teams of participants and witnesses in serious road accidents, especially in major district cities and the capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u115	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov, the criterion for determining the number of teams in providing road control is determined on the basis of the state insurance with officials from the respective police departments or from the sectors and departments of the Road Police Department of the Ministry of Interior and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. The working hours of the employees shall be formed on the basis of the weekly and monthly schedules drawn up. Signals of traffic accidents are received via 112 or in the operational duty units of the Ministry of Interior, and following an analysis of the information received, the duty officer shall direct a team to the site of the incident. In the event of a serious road accident which you are asking for, it is established whether drug aid has been provided and whether the injured persons have been transported to a hospital. The operating unit shall establish an organisation to obtain information from the medical institution on the existence of moderate bodily injury or death in the presence of the so-called task force on duty, which on the spot shall investigate the causes and circumstances of the traffic accident. According to the provisions of art. 125 of the Road Traffic Act, the Ministry of Interior's control services are required to visit the scene of the traffic accident in the following cases: in an accident there was a person killed or injured; the accident was caused by traffic jam; thirdly, a road vehicle involved in the accident, carrying dangerous goods; fourthly, a road vehicle involved with foreign registration; fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth... There are exactly eight cases listed. For example, these are the reasons for the prolonged waiting: in 2017 in the Department of the Road Police and the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Sofia were received about 4 thousand subpoenas from district governments and courts for interrogations and summoning employees in their capacity as actors or witnesses in cases in district, city and administrative courts. Their appearance and stay in the court leads to a reduction in the number of teams that actually serve road accidents. Secondly, another major problem is that there is not always a signal to 112 of the participants in a serious traffic accident in cases where drivers have exchanged bilateral constitutional protocols. Short statistics: out of all 1864 number of traffic accidents and signals for December 2017 for example, real documented traffic accidents by employees of the department of these 1864 Practically, the teams are visiting the scene instead of being directed towards handling a traffic accident, where there is no agreement between the participants and waiting for a road police team, i.e. there is a serious traffic accident. Very often, in the next place, an inaccurate address at the scene of the traffic accident is submitted to 112, which further delays service. These are the main reasons for delaying the appearance of these teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pawnov, you have an opportunity for a line. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I'm not pleased with the answer, because quite clerically... I specifically ask you about the big cities and, I would say, about Sofia, how many specific teams are there in the event of accidents, knowing that Sofia's diameter from Lyulin is about 20 km and the criteria you say are state employees? The criteria, in my opinion, must be the number of road accidents in order to match the size of the city and the frequency of accidents. You know that if one accident is in..Lyulin, and the other is in.Mladost, in the traffic it has in Sofia, in the large number of traffic lights, these are hours that are waiting... So I ask you specifically: what will be done for large cities to wait less for traffic accidents? How will the teams visit these accidents be increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Minister, please answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov: How many teams, specifically I'm asking you... You don't ask me that at all, by the way! I answered you specifically, clerically, exactly to the question you asked! Look at your question. I took it, if you want, I'll read it to you, but what was the short answer? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You ask me for criteria, you don't ask me for the number of teams. However, the short answer was: due to the high number of cars, vehicles on the road, and a marked reduction in the number of traffic accidents over the years, it happens that in 2017. 682 is less, that is, with this huge number of 900 registered cars per day only in Sofia, so many road transport accidents, and we have even reduced, you have actually reduced the number of employees at the Ministry of Interior during your management. I think that's the short answer. I tried to tell you what we were doing. And why, in fact, I also asked myself, wanting to give an exact answer, these people say, I've heard these lines as we go, and they're gone for half an hour! They're gone for an hour! Well, here's for those reasons! So many cars. Look around you. I don't know where you live. It's full of cars around the blocks. That's one of the reasons. This does not mean that we need to increase the number of people who are in the......................... the DMV, so famous. It's one of the reasons. I said others, which I listed specifically. And you say in your question:..a continuing waiting of the teams.. How did you know it was long-term? I asked myself the same question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u121	Because I was involved in such an accident...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u122	Yeah, but it's a personal feeling. Well, let's compare it to waiting a while ago, compare it to waiting in Romania, compare it to waiting in Germany, if you like. It may be that we do not wait much, but, of course, everyone when he sits for half an hour and there is no policeman, he starts to get nervous and says: "Well, where are these, why are they gone?" I have not done such research, but your question also gives me reason to do this: to ask where we are, and yesterday, the other day, a year ago, two, compared to other countries, are we waiting more, our people waiting or not waiting? Except for the reasons I listed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question to Minister Radev. He is from the MP Dimitar Stoyanov. Dimitar Stoyanov has the opportunity to develop a question about the work of the Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission, according to the agreement in force between Bulgaria and Turkey for preventing and solving border incidents and maintaining state border signs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission was established on the basis of the bilateral agreement between Bulgaria and Turkey to prevent border incidents and maintain state border signs concluded in 1967. In October 2013, a meeting of the foreign ministers of Bulgaria and Turkey in Ankara discussed the issue of restarting the work of this committee. According to media data, the Commission held a meeting at the beginning of 2014, with no other information on its work. In view of the foregoing, the question to which I ask you to answer, Minister, is: is the Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission functioning? What is the personal composition of the Bulgarian country? What questions were discussed and resolved in 2017? What are the specific objectives set by the Bulgarian country for 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, according to art. 3 of the Agreement between Bulgaria and Turkey, as you said, for preventing and solving border incidents and maintaining state border signs, were created a Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission, two sectoral and five section committees. On 16 and 17 January 2014 a meeting of the Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission was held in Sofia. The main question that the Bulgarian side put was the surrender and acceptance by the Turkish side of people who have illegally crossed the border. The reason for this question is the decision by the Turkish side of November 2012 to unilaterally suspend the readmission of third-country nationals. All decisions of the Central Commission have been made, carrying out joint tours of the routes used most often to carry out illegal activity, trafficking of illegal migrants in the Bulgarian and Turkish territory, two visits of the expert commission of the Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission to plan the activity of measuring all border signs have been made, and determining their coordinates along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. An assessment has been carried out on the activities carried out on geodetic measurement and the coordinates of the border signs have been determined. The Border Police Directorate-General has developed and agreed with the Turkish side a carteen model containing a decoder that is the term, with a range of up to 2 km from both sides of the border line, for locating and rapid reaction when noticing persons who attempt illegal crossing the border. The next regular meeting, which is rotating, in principle the Central Mixed Bulgarian-Turkish Border Commission had to be held in January-February 2015, even then it should have been held in the Republic of Turkey, but the day is still specified and an invitation is expected from the Turkish country when this will happen. We've been on the active side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, would you care to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u128	I thank you for this part of the answer, Mr. Minister, but you have not addressed any other questions I ask. They are: what is the composition of this committee on the Bulgarian side? Do we have any targets for 2018, which we want to achieve through the work of this committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u129	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, you're right, it's a whole list for the cast. I couldn't afford to get out of time before, so I didn't answer. At the last meeting of the Central Commission held during the period 16.17, as you said, in the beginning of 2014, the composition of the Bulgarian country was the following: first, Chief Commissioner Zaharin Panov, Director of the Border Police Directorate General, President of the Commission; second, Commissioner Milen Penev, Deputy Director of the same Directorate; third, Commissioner Stoyan Ivanov, Director of the Regional Police Directorate (BMI) Elhovo; fourth, Mr. Angelov, Representative of the Directorate (Situation Centre) of the Ministry of Internal Affairs; third, Mr. Danail Chakarov, Executive Director of the Directorate of Border Police (International Law and Law of the European Union) of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; sixth, Inspector Elena Ivanova, expert in the sector. These eleven people, with a chairman, as I said, Chief Commissioner Zaharin Panov is the list of participants in this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again raised by the MP Dimitar Stoyanov. It is about the effectiveness of the work of the Economic Police and the economic direction of DGBOP. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The economic police and the economic direction of DGBOP are working to counter the crimes committed in the field of the economy, with the difference in their activity in the different directions they are working on. These directions are detailed in art. 39, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Despite these differences, very often the circle of people committing crimes in the sectors of the economy is the same and both services work on it. In the light of the foregoing, the question to which I ask you to answer, Mr Minister, is as follows: how are the functions of the Economic Police and the economic direction of the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs in order to achieve the effectiveness of their work, with the high results being the result of an interaction between the services or in the conditions of competition between them? I ask this question in view of the fact that both competition and interaction can produce high results. This is a matter of the Ministry's policy, which should aim to improve the detection and countering crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u133	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, I'm missing the regulations. You quoted her, and I thank you for that. In the Directorate-General for Organized Crime there is an Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Risk Goods and Goods. The main focus is interinstitutional cooperation, coordination, effective exchange of information in order to combat the crimes against the tax system and customs regime and to control those goods and high fiscal risk goods introduced into the country. Officials from the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the General Directorate of National Police, in cooperation with experts from the State Agency of National Security, the Office of Customs, the National Revenue Agency and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, represented at the Coordination Centre, have representatives there, implement events with the aim of raising budget revenues and ensuring a balanced fiscal environment in the country. It's at the DGBOP. In the Directorate-General of National Police, the Department of Economic Police functions to carry out operational and search activities to counter and neutralize criminal activity in accordance with the sectors of the economy of the state. The department implements coordination, methodological guidance and supports the activities of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the detection of various types of crimes. Operating services the national management structures of the state administration, ministries, executive agencies and others. The Department operates the following structural units: industry and trade sector, financials and tax crimes sector, budget organizations and European funds and sector Countering corruption in the administration and sector Computer crime. That's the National Police. The interaction between the two systems............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By its nature, the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre, which I mentioned, is a connecting link between the institutions for establishing and crossing the schemes for committing crimes against the customs regime. The coordinated conduct of thematic specialised operations and the timely handling of specific real-time alerts, according to the functional competence of the individual state institutions, not only of the two directorates, is a prerequisite for achieving better results in countering economic crimes, which are generally complex. The coordination and effective implementation of complex actions by specialized services, institutions and organisations, as well as prevention policies, contributes to achieving high results in the fight against crime. You can also use the word "synergy" that you use in your question as a result of their joint actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, about attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm not gonna give you a line. I realize that my question is bordering on the state's secret, on the secrecy that's being observed on this case. What you've told me pleases me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u137	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Secretary? You won't take the opportunity. The next question is from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Stratilov Svilenski regarding a check concerning purchased new cars for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. The matter will develop Mr. Svilensky. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In June last year, Mr. Minister, my colleague Ivan Ivanov and I asked a question about a public procurement for the purchase of about 300 cars for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. It became clear from the media that in these cars there are certain obstacles to their full use as road-controlled vehicles. Then, in answering this current question, you assured us that you had ordered an inspection to be completed on 7 July, I think it was the date, and after it was finished, you will inform us of the outcome of the verification, what sanctions were imposed, if there were violations, to whom the result of the check was imposed at all. And since to this day we have not received an answer from the outcome of this inspection, our question to you is about a previous current question about purchased new cars for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. You said there was an inspection. Please answer us: are there any violations found in the inspection and what are the results of it? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u139	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Svilenski, with Order No 8121z In the media it is commented that the existing 148 mobile automated technical means. This is what they say about speed control, in English TFR1 M, can not shoot from the new cars brand..... Kia......... due to the different quartz composition of the glass and their slope....... was written so. It is noted that despite the repeated attempts of road police officers to install and test the speed control cameras in new cars, the photos became vague and so on. You're right, I was outraged back then, too. According to a reference from July 20, 2017 of the Directorate of the Inspectorate, it is concluded that the data exported in the media is not confirmed that the mobile speed control cameras are incompatible with the new car brand. The procurement documents do not require tests to be carried out for existing automated means of speed control with new cars in a way of shooting from the inside, and therefore such tests have not been carried out. The lack of such technical equipment installed in the new cars is also a second reason why the claims in the media should be accepted as unconfirmed. The same reference does not confirm the reported data in the media that, despite repeated attempts by road police to install and test technical means for speed in new cars, the photos became unclear. Transportable traffic speed control cameras do not need to be connected in any way to cars, because the technical means will not function in cars but outside them. Therefore, all purchased vehicles that are concerned may be used by the road police team in carrying out road traffic control and in the way they have been used so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Believe me, my colleague and I expected a much more serious approach to this issue. You yourself reported that there were 148 old cameras. You know very well that the old car brand "Opel" which are used in the Ministry of Interior is already coming out due to the exhaustion of their resources. From your answer nowhere became clear, and I from personal experience and from my observations see that these old TFR cameras simply can't get into these cars. You said yourself it wasn't assigned to the order when these cars were purchased, so the cameras would go inside. After all, we understand from your answer that in practice there is an expensive transport of new cameras, which are most likely even more expensive than those already purchased. You know that under adverse weather conditions these tripod cameras that are outside the car cannot be used. You probably bought umbrellas at them maybe or something else. [[Laughter and excitement.]] We are extremely surprised by your claims that no violations have been detected in the purchase of these cameras, with apparently available ones. Moreover, this is also a framework agreement, and I am convinced that you have taken more such cars. If there is such data, please tell us. Let's know how many more cars are taken in which transport of such expensive equipment is made. It is normal that you yourself know and have said it yourself that the finance of the Ministry is not enough, your budget is limited and so on, and at the same time spend money that could go to cover other needs for example, you know, employees protested. We expect more serious treatment from you and you will tell us who is responsible, why he has allowed this thing and that there are persons punished, and at the same time you are telling us: "Everything is okay and there is no problem, we will continue to carry out expensive cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an attitude towards completing the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am serious enough when I read to you the things my colleagues have prepared. I'm telling you the truth. I have three pages I can read for the back of my head, but I'm not going to read them, and I'm going to try to tell you about them. You're still outraged. I stopped after I did the inspection and found out. The mistake came from the fact that some colleagues allowed themselves to say things about this there were long explanations later on that were not bet on cars. And I stressed that no one imagined that these cameras would be placed inside. If so, why did you explain about these windows that didn't pass through them? He was explained by uniformed officers. You remember him. I remember that, too. I resented you, too. Turns out it wasn't exactly like that. One didn't understand, another I don't know what he didn't do. Then I said: "Why do you go on television and do this to the public?! Why, since an inspection has been carried out by the Inspectorate and it has been proven that this requirement is not in the technical documentation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u145	That's the problem! Because he's gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u146	And he's gone because he didn't have to. I'll read you what's going on right now. These stationary cameras, which are very nice, are on tripods, they behave outside, but when it rains or there's a hailstorm, they won't film anyone. Then let's hope no one goes 200 kilometers an hour. Although there may be cases like this. Don't think that all the cameras we buy, because there are those that are in the cars if you want, I'll now read this to you, but the others we're talking about, and we're buying more of these... We're buying another 28, another 58, also stationary modern cameras. So far, I've been written here, and that's like this: 23 systems of service cars have been installed. The aim of this system is to improve the effectiveness of police work in combating traffic by motor vehicles and the violations of drivers in them, an automated identification of vehicle registration numbers when passing through the camera range of specially equipped police cars. Their subsequent verification is in line with the records in the Ministry of Interior. This leads to the generation of suspicious transport signals and thus the intruders are caught. The system will also help to improve traffic safety. It is described how there is a built-in computer, router, camera, radar, sensor, tablet, monitor, GPS antenna. The camera is mounted here is told where at the front left end of the roof of the car, in front of the light bar. At the moment, this system is in the process of testing. The estimated deadline for putting into service is the end of May. These are the ones who will be inside. There are some. I used to talk to you all the time about these trinogs and that outrage because we all knew they had to take pictures from the inside. Turns out it wasn't. I don't know why you guys resent the fact that there's gonna be cameras outside? It's raining, but as you've noticed, the landlines are taking pictures. They're standing on the streets. It's not a motive not to have such modern cameras. Besides, there's one inside. Not to reveal, because there are future plans, but we have new public procurements that will have additional cameras that will shoot cars with different numbers to catch those who don't even realize what they're doing on the roads, and we're not with the landline when we can do it openly. We're on the road, and we're taking pictures of them, whatever practice there is in the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the issue of the National Representative Pencho Milkov concerning security measures in Bulgarian schools. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! During my meetings with the management of schools and teachers, the question of security was raised several times during and after the educational process. Two groups of problems can be identified in my conversations. First, during the educational process it is necessary to ensure the security of the Bulgarian children from the anti-social events carried out, firstly, by them in relation to other children, as well as carried out by third parties within the school. The public is witnessing, including through the media, even through platforms for sharing videos on the Internet of acts of aggression between students, from students to teachers and from third parties on the territory of schools. The society has witnessed tragedies in recent years, although for now outside the territory of Bulgaria, where students, using weapons, are committing murders on the territory of schools. The second group of questions are referred to many cases where groups of people are gathered at school courts during and after the end of the school process and on weekends who perform anti-social events, alcohol use, other tranquilizers, damage of the school's property by painting with graffiti, for no reason breaking. The courts of most schools are broken down or have low inefficient fences and people freely pass through them. What's the situation right now? Schools shall take appropriate measures to ensure living security of entrances and chambers in the courtyards. This leads me to ask the following questions: how many signals have been made to the Ministry of Interior over the past three years for illegal activities on the territory of schools in the country, actions against students, against school property, as well as other anti-social acts? Do you consider it necessary and provide for a system of statutory common rules for the effective protection of students and schools from abuse, which includes measures for physical protection of buildings and courtyards, measures for the protection of children? And perhaps the most important thing is: do you consider it necessary for the measures to have a common character, to introduce them and provide them quickly and effectively in the territory of all schools in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u149	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, data on the number of registered crimes committed on the territory of schools, colleges and private schools indicate the following: in 2015. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings "Further readings"* "Further readingsandings"* "Further readings"* "Further In connection with the priority implementation plan and the achievement of the objectives of the National Council for Crime Prevention for the period 2016 - 2018 an updated Plan for Joint Action of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior has been updated. At the territorial level, the directors of educational institutions shall draw up joint plans with the heads of regional management for interactions in cases of crisis situations threatening the security of students or staff in the school area. School security audits are carried out by committees that include staff of the Ministry of Interior, a representative of the institution of education and a representative of the private security company. Schools enter into separate contracts with private security companies, which is not within the competence of the Ministry of Interior, because according to the Private Security Act, police authorities only carry out administrative regulation and control. When organizing the security activity, security companies set up an organization and control the performance of an assessment of the state and security of the sites entrusted to them. Immediately before the opening of each school year, as well as periodically when necessary, security checks shall be carried out on children's educational establishments, check the state of lighting, partition railings between school entrances and road lanes, means of forcing the speed reduction of passing cars, marking, pre-school paths, signs, etc. and prescriptions shall be given. The security police officers hold regular meetings with the mayors of the settlements, the local authorities, the heads of the regional managements of education and the heads of the security companies, with which the implementation of a strict crossing regime in schools and the carrying out of thorough checks in order to prevent the introduction of common funds into the premises of the educational institutions. An organization has been established for enhanced police presence in the areas of educational institutions by police junior police inspectors and officers carrying out patrol work at peak hours of the day to prevent the conduct of anti-social acts and criminal offences against and by minors. In this regard, priority measures shall be taken to counter the spread of drugs in educational establishments. Given that the police authorities under the Private Security Act carry out administrative regulation and administrative control, they should not be entrusted with obligations arising from the same law to control entities by them. There will be a conflict of interest. In cases where there is no private security activity, the Ministry of Interior Act shall specify the order in which additional tasks may be carried out or entrusted to the police authorities. I consider it necessary that the measures to ensure the security of Bulgarian schools, as well as the internal order, have a common and binding nature to ensure effective security of students. In addition, I believe that all institutions responsible for the life and health of the students should participate in ensuring the security of the Bulgarian schools by supporting any reasonable initiative in this direction. We give orders and we participate in this process, but we are not the only ones responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u152	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It shows that you, as a political leader of the Ministry, are aware that the Ministry of Interior institution, which has special knowledge and skills, is carrying out and should indicate this single system. What I have pointed out in the question and what is obtained on the ground in each school is that the school guides and their collectives do not have these specific knowledge and skills. Private security activities are not always successful, as data, including video, are released for school outbursts. Therefore, the state through the Ministry of Interior, in my opinion, must point out a single solution for dealing with this issue. I agree that all institutions - state and municipal - should take regard, but the Ministry of Interior as a body called to guard public order - should indicate how this should be done united throughout the country. So far, that's not a fact. It's good to see there's a slight drop in number. Most likely this is due to the collapse of the total number of students in the country. It's just a guess. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u153	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You're welcome to add your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, I must first thank you for your trust in the Ministry of Interior. Both in your questions and in your speeches, and also in what I have heard now, you actually said in different words the same thing in the Ministry of Interior because we believe it. I agree with you. I have tried to outline how responsible we are without emphasising this, but we also have other responsibilities. To be clear, if we hypothetically imagine that there are no private security firms at all, that schools have somehow completely neglected this activity, then should we constantly increase the police to do their job? There has to be a balance. The legislator's trying to find him. What is described to us, including in the Law on Private Security, we do what is said to be given, we control, but some others also have to do this work and not reduce the pressure against anti-social acts. We will control them and punish them after all because the Ministry of Interior is a repressive apparatus. If there is someone who broke the law, we go and establish it, but please from this tribune and all the others who have a commitment, such as school boards, I pointed out for a reason that we are involved there, but we are not the main ones who draw up these advices. We give prescriptions and money, and we demand they build what they need to build in front of them. We give regulations to municipalities that are other owners to make the obstacles raised for cars in front of schools, we participate, including with presence in the morning or when students come home, but we cannot cover all aspects of this security. Thank you for your question, because it is very important. I was impressed that you were talking about single, planned... Yeah, but this isn't just about Sofia. That goes for all schools. We try to apply the same thing everywhere. The Ministry of Interior operatings, which are also being carried out on the ground, are being told the same thing about the regulations, about control. We tell it to everyone, and they're required to do it. I agree with that, but we have to be careful. Thank you for paying attention. That's what I'm talking about from the stands. I call on everyone to be in their place, and we will do everything we can, as I have outlined it here, and I hope it is getting better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u155	Thank you. The questions to Minister Radev continue. The next one is from the MP Georgi Gokov on the presented public discussion Draft for amendment and supplement to Tariff No 4 for the fees collected in the Ministry of Interior system. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, my question to you is the published public discussion Draft for changes in Tariff No 4 on the website of the Ministry of Interior. The document in question sets out the fees that the Ministry collects for its administrative services. It became clear that the fees were increasing. When I took the trouble to calculate, I made it six times on average, and some were increased more than 14, 15 times. For example, owners of mopeds and motorcycles will pay 28 BGN. for initial registration and until now pay 2 leva. for initial registration of trailer and semi-trailer at the current 2 BGN In determining fees, the principle should always be taken into account the costs incurred for that administrative service. The amount of the fee for each administrative service must correspond to the costs of providing the service concerned, including the necessary material and technical costs and all the administrative costs of carrying out the duties of officials in view of their qualifications and working hours spent. Not only in this case, but it would not normally be normal for administrative costs to exceed 20 per cent of the fee. Mr. Minister, you are part of a government that says it will not increase the tax burden on people. If we don't increase the tax burden, are we going to kill him on charges and form the budget of the Ministry of Interior? This is again a mistake in the pocket of the Bulgarians. If, for example, we do not respect the principle that the amount of the fee should include only administrative costs and staff qualifications, this means that we are increasing the taxes of these people. That's what I think. In this regard, I ask you the question: what requires an increase in administrative fees and how are their dimensions determined? Is there any fair principle in determining them?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u157	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov! The draft decree of the Council of Ministers provides for an amendment and an addition to Tariff No 4 in several sections. One of you is your Section Five Taxi under the Road Traffic Act. In essence, the main changes in this section relate to the fact that some of the fees to be paid for services carried out by the authorities of the Ministry are revised and combined, forming new uniform fees. Other services under this Section of Tariff No 4 are intended not to be charged at all. The new uniform fees relating to the operation of a number of services are intended to be linked to the possibility of payment for registration of a road vehicle by using POS terminal devices at the registration points, where, notice, no additional commission fees are charged, which have been paid by the citizens in the banking branches so far.; for registration of mopeds, motorcycles and three-wheel vehicles and for registration of trailers and semi-trailers fees have never been of this size. The existing fee of BGN 2 is only the submission of the application for registration of any type of vehicle, including passenger cars and trucks. According to the current Tariff No 4 the amount that citizens must pay when registering mopeds, motorcycles and three- and four-wheel vehicles is BGN 19. Not BGN 2 but BGN 19 For registration of trailers and spares 21 BGN, without these amounts included commission fees, which were collected until now by the banks when the payment was made. The fees under all sections proposed by the Project shall be set up according to the requirements of the Methodology for determining the cost-oriented amount of the fees. 7a of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business is said by the whole document adopted by Decree No 1 of the Council of Ministers of 2012. No increase in fees is proposed even on the contrary, in some cases in the payment of new uniform fees, which I have mentioned. For example, after the adoption of the changes in Tariff No 4 for the registration service of a means of transport, it is possible for citizens to pay lower charges due to the dropping of additional commissions collected by banks, as I mentioned. I would like to point out that the fees for services for the registration of vehicles in the Republic of Bulgaria remain the lowest compared to the fees collected for services for the registration of such funds in other Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer you gave me. The explanations you made under the Tariff Number 4 Change Project are important because people get the impression that they're going to get in their pocket again, and deep. I understand what you're saying. Hopefully so and hopefully people believe; hopefully, after the so-called public discussion and these fees are introduced, the Bulgarian will really pay less or at least as much as he has paid so far. Against the general background of everything that is increasing, it would not be good to increase the fees. I would also like to say two words on the issue of public discussion. You don't have the illusion that we can put on any website for public discussion something that will increase the burden of fees, taxes, whatever you want, and the people who are discussing it publicly will say to this thing? I think it's pretty naive to think about it. We enter into an interesting theme The lowest fees remain in Bulgaria for related services in other countries. I don't want to tell you exactly, because you're aware, and everyone is aware of how huge the differences between pay there and pay here are. Their fees include administrative costs for qualification of staff, their salaries and so on. So let us, when we start to measure ourselves with other European countries, measure ourselves not only by taxes and taxes, that they are lower, but also by wages. It'll be good to catch them at some point. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u161	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gökov, you spoke quietly and peacefully to me, but you are absolutely right, so I took a line to speak it. People get the impression you said. When a minister hears this, he asks himself: "If this is the case, I must do something. I agree! If you and I are medium-intelligence, at least if you can't understand it and you get the impression, I imagine how much more they're asking the same question. Thanks for that. I guess on the site people won't tell me about the changes. The idea is to disagree, to object, to say that we should see it. If it's fair and fair, we can change it. You're right about the fees, too, so I got up to tell you. I asked myself the same question. When they told me the fees were the lowest, how did you know? Is that a relative or an absolute number? If it's absolutely wrong, it's absolutely wrong for me to use that word. You're right! Salaries and a number of other things in absolute values say nothing. If they're attached to something and they're still the lowest, then it's different. That question remained with me. Here I fully agree you caught him in the answer, that's what it says. Thank you. I'll check that out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Krasimir Yankov and refers to an engineering-obstruction facility at the border with the Republic of Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, according to the Strategy for Integrated Border Management of the Republic of Bulgaria, 2014 In this context, the need to upgrade the integrated border management model in response to border security challenges is also determined. The construction of an engineering-obstruction facility is to respond adequately to the challenges associated with the emergence of critical flows, the arrival of large groups of people at the entrance and their clustering of a small section of the border. Modern limitation and minimization of the negative effects of the occurrence of threats requires adequate measures to permanently upgrade the integrated border management model according to existing needs. On 19 October 2017, after meeting with the Interior Minister of Slovakia, you announce: "One hundred percent is built fence along the border with Turkey. What remains is to put more sensors and surveillance systems in places where there is not enough physical security. Mr. Minister, I pay attention to this complex facility, which we call an integrated facility for the protection of the border of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard is also my question: what is the state of the integrated border surveillance system at the Bulgarian-Turkish border? When will you finalize the entire project with all the components built so that the facility can fulfill its purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u165	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, the integrated surveillance system along the border with Turkey or, as you said, the city is built in two parts. The first part covers the section of the state border between the border crossings of Captain Andreevo and the one in Lesovo. This part of the integrated surveillance system was put into operation in mid-2012. The second part of the integrated surveillance system at the border between Bulgaria and Turkey is located on the vulnerable directions along the state border in the area between the border crossings. This part was built between 2013 and 2015. Currently all elements of these parts are used in border surveillance. Under the Internal Security Fund, two parts of the integrated monitoring system are supported. It is planned to expand the integrated border surveillance system at the Bulgarian-Turkish border by building sensor lines for monitoring those sections of the state border, which are currently not covered by elements of the two parts of the system. By Decision No 12491 of 20 December 2017, a public contract contractor is appointed - if you want me to say it correctly - number 12491 op-1284 of 20 December 2017, and on 2 January 2018, the decision is contested by the Commission for Protection of Competition. Currently, the status has been opened on a complaint and we are waiting for a decision. In conclusion, I will clearly stress that the purpose of the integrated surveillance system is different from the purpose of the temporary obstruction facility built along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The integrated surveillance system is designed to acquire pre-emptive information to prepare a breach of the state border or already committed. At the same time, the objective of the built obstruction facility is to achieve delays, partial or total limitation of attempts to cross individual persons or groups of third-country nationals, normally. For illegal crossing of the border and entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the temporary obstruction of the fence, and the road adjacent to it, is built along the Bulgarian-Turkish border and has a total length of 235, 613 m, approximately 236 km. In this regard, the temporary obstruction facility shall fulfil its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u168	Dear Minister, a temporary impeding facility along the border, you said he was performing his duties. I am asking you about the overall completion of the integrated border guard system and I will explain to you clearly what the system itself is. The integrated system is divided into several perimeters with fixed and mobile surveillance posts, a system of cameras and motion sensors, local control and a coordination centre in Svilengrad. Systems for continuous power supply with current and diesel generators ensure the operation of the posts under all conditions. The perimeter alarm system, which is different from the obstruction facility, I pay attention to you, is located close to the state border. It includes these sensors and thermal imaging cameras. The sensor data and the video image from the surveillance cameras shall be transmitted through this built-up communications network for access to the fixed positions themselves. Through the communication network they enter the coordination centres. Mobile posts where they are to be assembled with a live force for technical surveillance shall be based on high-pass motor vehicles equipped with multi-sensor surveillance systems. The information from the monitoring conducted shall be transmitted in real time through a wireless network for communication to these fixed posts and from there to the coordination centres. Dear Minister, you must clearly know in detail what this integrated state border surveillance system is. Clearly, your proposal and the decision voted by the Council of Ministers to announce an impeding facility on the Bulgarian-Turkish border for a strategic national security site will not stop those who want to cross our border illegally, and there should be no information about whether and where the built facility has weak spots, are your words. This does not help to calm the Bulgarian citizens and I show my concern that you do not pay serious attention to the problem. The fact that the procedure itself has been appealed speaks of the capacity of your office in relation to the very construction of the overall guaranteeing of our border with the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, would you like to address the supplement to the question? You have the opportunity to do this? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! Of course I'll take the floor. Whenever they tell me something to talk about the border, it is a good reason for me to praise Bulgaria for what it has done for the border and what the GERB government has done for it. I'm not saying this to brag about what we've done. I'm saying what others say about us. Everyone says that this is the best protected critical land border of the European Union. What are you saying, Mr. Iankov, here and what questions you're asking me, has nothing to do with this assessment. I am obliged to answer your specific questions as a Member of the National Assembly and to answer you. Don't explain to me in detail in both buildings what this system is. I'm sorry, but I've read you exactly how many the two are, what they are, and I'm asking you not to go into detail to explain where there is a wireless connection by mobile means or stationary. It's on the list for a reason. That's not why, so Mrs. Yoncheva doesn't go or you or I...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u171	From public sources, it's information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u172	Even if it's from a public... The information collected is in one place and what is said by this tribune you can cross the border. I'm telling you this well-meaningly, I'm not threatening you, but I clearly took the liberty of speaking in detail. I just told you things in common. If you want details, please come to the Commission and come to the Ministry, I will give you more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u173	It's not built, is it? When will it be built?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u174	Whether it was built or not, I said where. Good question: when will it be built? And now, if you don't know... here's what you're saying, you ask, I'm in debt, since I'm in executive power, there's 160 million. Euros, you've heard of them. This money has been used almost 50, now it will be 70%. You know that order I mentioned. When it does, it will further upgrade the physical obstruction facility, the physical fence, as you call it, with additional funds to these two so far built, which I said the two distances.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u175	The deadline?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u176	When we do, if we don't, the next term we'll rule again, then we'll finish it if we have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u177	That's enough. This term won't exist!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u178	You're asking when it's gonna happen. I'm telling you, this year we're going to be able to absorb this 160 million money and it's going to increase the fence. In this part of 30 kilometers, where there is no road, and there we will make a path that was made in our time, I do not say that it is bad, such were the circumstances, so you decided then, I only approve it and I. 30 against 236. I'm not saying who built how much. Bravo that Bulgaria has done it and now we are all picking these fruits and praising us. All those who feared this stream that passed through our border. So she's doing her job very well. It will do even better here I agree with you if we can upgrade it and revive it. This detail I assume you have heard, and the existing one built so far, to pay for it there, should be maintained well and with the new means that are placed on it, even better to protect, or at least to maintain this potential danger that stands at the border between Turkey and Syria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u179	The building wasn't maintained, was it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question of the MPs Hristo Tanchev Prodanov and Dimitar Ivanov Danchev. It refers to the domestic market of Malashevtsi, this is how the question is formulated and stated. Come in, let's hear the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We received information from a number of citizens living in Sofia, Serdika district, Malashevtsi district, that every Saturday and Sunday at the foot of the organized flea market The trade is carried out on newspapers, mushams, nylons and others, crucified directly on the ground. According to information from residents in the area, illegally acquired items are often distributed to these places. Among other things, on weekends of the week, traders and their customers create chaos in the traffic on the indicated streets and their direct, as they park their cars at the doors and courtyards of residents there. In this regard and in relation to our activities as MPs from the city of Sofia, we ask you to inform us: what measures does the Ministry of Interior take through its authorities to counter the apparently illegal activity in the area? How do law enforcement protect the rights of citizens living in the area? Is monitoring and security provided for public events in that area? Have violations been detected and sanctioned in the organisation of the flea market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u182	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Danchev! Bit-market "Malashevtsi" is located on the territory served by the Fifth District Government, whose employees conduct regional police operations to prevent and solve crimes in the area of the market. On the basis of these activities, since the beginning of 2017 crimes related to stolen cell phones, the sale of illegal weapons, bicycle theft, artwork, book theft, etc. have been solved. Since the beginning of 2017, 31 police operations have been organised and carried out in order to counter and distribute excise goods without Banderol. In these operations there were 46 cases of non-Banderol tobacco holding and 29 cases of possession of cigarettes without excise banderol. These are crimes under art. 234 of the Penal Code. 16 acts have been made to establish an administrative infringement for the possession of cigarettes without excise banderol. For each of these cases, a file has been filed which, following verification, has been sent to Sofia Customs by jurisdiction. Police officers on a weekly basis on the days on which the flea market is held.. Malashevtsi, assist the employees of the Sofia Inspectorate in establishing and not committing violations under the Ordinance of Sofia Municipality. Since the beginning of 2017, in the event of such co-operation, the employees of the Sofia Inspectorate have drawn up 62 acts establishing an administrative infringement under the Ordinance on the Organization of Movement in the territory of Sofia Municipality and Ordinance on the terms and conditions for commercial activity in the territory of Sofia Municipality. During specialized police operations, checks and tours carried out at the flea market, 137 administrative violations under the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Law on Civil Registration were drawn up. Four persons have been detained, and a general search has been declared. In 2017, a joint operation was conducted with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency on an alert for the sale of expired foodstuffs. In 2017, I stress that there have not been any requests for assistance from competent authorities to carry out checks for the sale of expired medicines and at all of medicines on the market, and no such infringements have been detected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Danchev, you will obviously take the opportunity to reply. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Dear Members of the National Assembly, first of all, I would like to say that we at BSP are not opposed to conducting a flea market. This is a practice that exists in almost all countries in Western Europe, and it is certainly one of the forms that are of interest to citizens, but we are of the opinion that it should be carried out under certain conditions and, above all, in the designated places. In this sense, I am pleased to hear that you have conducted joint actions with your colleagues from the Sofia Inspectorate. However, it is appropriate for the Ministry of Interior to take real measures relating to the control of the activity being carried out on the market, as well as in relation to its normal conduct, again I say, to the relevant place, including the other authorities, which can use the Ministry of Interior in fulfilling its commitments by the National Revenue Agency, the Economic Police and so on. It is obvious that the conduct of the flea market thus creates the slightest problems for road traffic in that area and on the streets I have indicated. I would welcome a joint initiative, at your request, which should probably be done with Sofia Municipality, with which you could cause a change to the temporary change in the movement of bus No 86, which passes in this area, to have a temporary stop for the days when the flea market takes place.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u186	It's for the public transport, not the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u187	Please don't call, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u188	Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u189	Road traffic should still be coordinated by the Ministry of Interior and a temporary stop should be organised at the entrance of the flea market so that the stalls on the street of Lavender and these improvised, I say, stalls on newspapers, nylons and other handy materials are not available. Apart from this, I really believe that the Ministry of Interior, again, can provide regular checks and really bring order through more qualitative and regular control in the way the flea market is conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u190	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Danchev and Mr. Prodanov, I see that the question has been asked by both of them! You started your line with the fact that BSP is not against the domestic markets, you force me to say that GERB is not against the domestic markets, too.................................... that we are not against the domestic markets.................................. This is some sort of social activity that will develop with both of us without us, obviously, but it's a bit of a joke. I'm trying to find something else in your question because you're asking about something specific about Malashevtsi. There's a flea market in Sofia. I am trying to find as Minister the principle, as Mr. Gokov said: the need is important. When you talk to me about Malashevtsi, I, as a minister, start thinking about all the flea markets where they are in the country whether they have such problems. There's probably one somewhere, but you point to this one, and I focus on it. The responsibility I have to thank you very much. Both you and many people I hear are constantly talking about the Ministry of Interior to do this job. That's trust in the institution. This has been the case over the years, and so have we, the MPs, cannot get rid of it. Sitting here in your place, I also thought the Ministry of Interior was almost responsible for so many things.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u192	For everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u193	Yeah. Let us be clear: I do not distract responsibility again, I will repeat this many times, you said several times, and I memorized this, and I wrote down No 86. I'm sure I'll take the matter to the city. We are not responsible for this, but we can make a prescription, as you say: "See what happens to the road there, do something. Yes, I can say this from this tribune and personally promise you as a Member of the National Assembly, who is interested in the answer I will do what is necessary, contact our services with the municipality, see what can be done, can there be a stop, will look at the situation at all, as you asked the question. I end up with this, not only with the bit-market "Malashevtsi," but also everyone else on the principle: "If it's good for one, let's do it well for everyone else." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-09.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question for Minister Radev. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. With this, we've exhausted the living room and the weekly program. The next Parliament meeting on 14 March 2018 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
