ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we go to the agenda, I will read you a message: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 88, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as importers we withdraw our proposal for a national referendum, together with the draft decision to produce a national referendum and the reasons for them submitted to the National Assembly with an introduction. No 854-02-7 of 25 January 2018. Importers Moving on to next item on the agenda. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. [[Applause from GERB.]] Will you have a declaration? Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, declaration from GERB Parliamentary Group:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u3	Oh, this communism!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u4	In its multi-suffering history, Bulgaria has memorized many tragic dates, but undoubtedly one of the most disloyal, most criminal, which has become a symbol of hatred and sadism, is the date of February 1, 1945. On this day 73 years ago the so-called People's Court was held, organized by the Communist Party, held in power by the bayonets of the Red Army. This court, established by the Law-Law of the OF on 6 October 1944, is absolutely illegal because it is in complete violation of the then-acting Tarnovo Constitution. They were sentenced to death by firing squad and killed the same night with shots fired at the back of the head under the Bolshevik patent. The Regents Prince Cyril, Bogdan Filov "Prime Minister," and General Nikola Mihov, Prime Minister Ivan Bagryanov and Dobri Bozhilov, 22 ministers, 67 MPs and 8 royal advisors. 147 victims representing the nation's elite were buried in several common pits in the central Sofia cemeteries. The group of executioners is led by Ferdinand Kosovski, the future President of the National Assembly, Izidor Levi, a executioner investigator, a special agent of Lavrentius Beria from the Bolshevik NKVD, and Lev Glavinchev, a sadist involved in many communist atrocities before 1944. They are responsible for the sentences to be executed with the necessary cruelty, speed and secrecy. That is why 1 February was adopted by the GERB government in 2011 as a date to be honored as a day of memory for the victims of communism. But with this date, the sentences and firing squads don't run out. The so-called enemies of the people continue to be tried over the next few months by the ruling of the supreme and district judicial groups. On 17 December 1944, with a decision of the CCP of the BCP and not of the government, the State Security is allowed to arrest, in its sole discretion, all persons who are reported to be pro-fascist and reactionary, regardless of which party they are members. Some of the murders before February 1st were legitimized according to the wording of the case. The purpose of these sentences is to confiscate all the movable and immovable property of the condemned. In many of the victims' homes, new rulers are unceremoniously accommodated. Those killed before 1 February immediately after 9 September without trial and sentence, thousands of Bulgarians were reported missing. On July 3, 1945, Chief People's Prosecutor Georgi Petrov reported that they were pronounced as follows: 2618 death sentences; 1226 life sentences and thousands more at different deadlines. At the age of 15 was convicted and the savior of the Bulgarian Jews Dimitar Peshev, notice about fascist and anti-Semite activities! This whole bacchanal thing happens in less than a year. If we add tens of thousands killed and tortured later in the communist concentration camps innocent and worthy Bulgarians, we will answer the question which is the most humanist regime in Bulgaria? Of course, when the facts speak from the reports of the high executioners themselves, comments are unnecessary. But it is not unnecessary, on the contrary, right now it is infinitely necessary for the whole truth of the greatest evil of the twentieth century after fascism to be sanctified as it is without legends and myths, without mask and makeup. Starting from the 100-year violent road in the fight for power and the abstract idea of communism of the Communist Party through the terrorist guerrilla movement, set off with fire bullets to bring down the constitutional Bulgarian power [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , the occupation of Bulgaria in 1944, the violence and terror after 9 September against those who disagree with the country's violent communism: the privileges according to art. 1 of the Dimitrov Constitution for 20% of the people, in the face of the communist nomenclature, and the roadlessness and lack of perspective for 80% mere mortal Bulgarians and their humiliated fates; for the attempts of the CCP of the BCP twice to like Bulgaria of the Soviet Union as the 16th Republic; for the betrayal of the BCP to its own idealists on 10 November 1989, by giving up communism and robbing our people, it became the role of builder of today's capitalism. Did you not sell, comrades and comrades, on this date the ideas of Vaptsarov, which you often mention here? Didn't you become his spiritual killers after repainting yourself as capitalists, didn't you kill his faith, bulletproof in the chest? She didn't have any armor-piercing bullets found for her, did she? And how quickly they were discovered when you smelled power and money. Twenty-seven years of mimicre, an initial accumulation of capital, everything that the people had created, you took it. Your children are in the West, you have heavy western limousines waiting outside. Your Plenum was weighed down by millionaires from pseudo privatization, but your minds are still there in the East to the nest of evil. Because without him, you wouldn't have had your uncontrollable power for half a century. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because when I look at you and listen to you, I understand that there is no escape from communist disease, and whoever still manages to get out of her paws, you brand it on lists read here by this tribune just a week ago. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Gentlemen, comrades, it is not a sin that anyone has deceived and believed in the abstraction of communism. It's a sin when you found out the truth about his crimes, and yet you were faithful to him because of money and power. If the old right hand, when she had all the power, had lustered your party, had told, and in the textbooks, why Bulgaria is a poor and bankrupt state and had declassified your files, we would not be debating what corruption is today. Today, the thief wouldn't have yelled at the thief. Today, the children of Bulgaria would not wander in the country. We would have been a normal European country a long time ago today. Thank God things are already happening. What was wasted in the first 20 years of the transition, in the last three mandates of Borisov's government optimism is there, and it is increasingly tangible. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm not gonna list exactly what's going on, you know it perfectly well. But as more and more young Bulgarians take their way back home, the hopes seem to return to last year alone! [[Noise and lines.]] I neglected to say that in those 45 years every Friday, we enjoyed an entirely Russian program on the only television. We also watched some bad movies. And when they were finished, he followed the finale of duty with the words "Khonec filima." To date, given your fallen masks, this finale sounds more optimistic to me and I will paraphrase it. [[Laughter, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And in our own way, that means the game is over. [[(Voices from the BSP for ……]] Today, despite your attempts to restore Bulgaria is free, independent and worthy state. It is as described by a great Plovdiv poet 17 years ago, long before we were members of NATO and the European Union. He said in the post of a magnificent verse: "Bulgaria is not the heart of Europe, but is part of its heart.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Oh, do you have any more?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u6	I ask all patriotic MPs with one minute of silence to bow their heads to the memory of the victims of communism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u7	Guys, hold on a second. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u8	One-minute silence isn't just for the ones he says...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u9	Yeah, yeah, okay. There's another affidavit. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u10	He's right, Mr. Tsonev. In addition to all that we have listed, there are many more victims of the communist regime, and I suppose it will complement me. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I hope the coworkers won't be mad that one minute's silence will be a little later. But the memory of a people is important. It is also important for his future, and when we remember the difficult and tragic moments of our history in order not to be repeated, we must remember everything in fullness. It is not sincere to say only about the victims of the communist regime, those who fell immediately after its establishment, the consequence of the People's Court and the repression, the consequence of the repression later and to miss one of the most repressive episodes of Bulgarian history and in particular the history of the communist totalitarian regime. This is the attempt of ethnic and religious cleansing of Bulgarian Muslims and ethnic Turks, which was held in several stages and whose final, so to speak, moment was accompanied by many victims from the Bulgarian Muslims and the Bulgarian Turks. So when we talk about the victims of this regime, we cannot forget the memory of those who, fighting for the right to self-determination, fighting for their religion, their faith and their names, gave their lives and for the totalitarian regime to cease to exist in Bulgaria to establish democracy. It's good to all remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from DPS.]] Declaration on behalf of the group "BSP" for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will regret the way Bulgarian parliamentaryism develops after 30 years of almost democratic political experience. I believe that the Bulgarian Socialist Party cannot be brought up on the stand for one simple reason: because it was the party that led the armed fight against fascism and monarchfasism in Bulgaria. I want to focus on concrete historical facts, not on the literary writings we've heard. On 1 November 1943 was signed the Secret Protocol of the Moscow Conference by the foreign ministers of the Soviet Union, the United States and Great Britain, in which the 18th item explicitly recorded the Declaration of the responsibility of the Hitlerists for their atrocities and the political responsibility of fascism. This declaration has been published explicitly stating that it does not affect the issues of major war criminals and crimes not related to a specific geographical territory and which will be punished by a joint decision of the governments of the Allies. 18, 1 November 1943 During the Crimean Conference, the leaders of the three Allied States, the Soviet Union, the United States and Great Britain, held from 4 to 11 February 1945, reaffirmed the decision of the Moscow Conference, and after that the Prime Minister of Great Britain Winston Churchill made the following statement: "It would be best for all war criminals and fascists to be shot together with the main criminals as soon as they were caught. " The decision on the Nuremberg Process, as well as on the processes that took place in Europe outside the territory of Germany, was taken by the international authorities and conferences of the allies. The home interpretations of former municipal and urban mayors for the fight against fascism will hardly be understood beyond the limits of the places they have managed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Colleagues, I suggest we support the victims of communism and the victims of the revival process with one minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u16	I propose that the victims of fascism be honored. [[crowd cheering and chirping]] The dozens, hundreds of gunned down guerrillas, soldiers in the Homeland War... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u17	One-minute silence is leaking! Mr. Zablyanov, today is February 1st!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u18	Hanged and killed in the prisons of Public Safety. To honor Geo Milev, Joseph Herbst... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphone. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u19	One minute silence for the victims of the communist regime and the victims of the revival process! Today is February 1st, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u20	Mrs. Karayancheva, and for the victims of fascism!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u21	Please, with your heads down, with one minute's silence to honor the victims! [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you, colleagues. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE OMBUDSMAN LAW. Who will present us the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! After the emotional beginning of this meeting, let's move on to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, before I present the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. Two for hall pass. Please allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Emilia Kraleva Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Plamen Bonchev General Director of the Directorate-General for Global Affairs, Mrs. Maya Manolova Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Diana Kovacheva Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u23	Access mode, please. They voted 144 MPs: 143, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 25 January 2018, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Mirena Tsenova, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mrs. Todor Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Ms. Maria Spasova, Director of the Directorate of Human Rights. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Desislava Ahladova and Mr. Todor Stoyanov. The bill proposes the inclusion of an explicit provision, according to which the Ombudsman not only protects but also promotes fundamental rights and freedoms. The change concerns the Ombudsman's power to make recommendations and proposals to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly for the signing and ratification of international acts in the field of human rights. The provision of an explicit opportunity for the Ombudsman to promote the effective implementation of international human rights instruments reflects the actual situation. The Ombudsman's 2016 Annual Report included a new chapter on monitoring the effective implementation of the human rights conventions to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. With the proposed change of art. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman is developing the constitutionally established power of the Ombudsman to advocate for all rights and freedoms of citizens, whether violated by public or private persons. At present, although not excluded from the Constitution, the actions and omissions of private sector entities remain outside the scope of the Law. Rules shall be introduced ensuring transparency of the procedure for the election of the Ombudsman, Deputy Ombudsman and the appointment of staff at the institution. As a guarantee of publicity and transparency in the election of the Ombudsman, it is envisaged that the secret vote should be replaced by a clear vote and that the requirements for the occupation of the office of.................................................................... The principles of transparency, efficiency, pluralism and non-discrimination in the selection and appointment of employees in the institution are explicitly established. The bill proposes mandatory notification to the Ombudsman when drafting draft regulations in order to be able to present opinions on the regulatory impact of his powers as a national preventive mechanism. The changes are in line with the recommendations made by the UN Accreditation Sub-Committee, which will ensure that the institution fully complies with the Paris principles and will allow it to apply for the highest status of a law-enforcement organisation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are agreed with both the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Bureau for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in Warsaw and will not lead to additional budgetary burdens. Mrs. Maya Manolova introduced the MPs to her opinion on the Bill. She pointed out the main reasons which led to the proposed changes. The procedure for reaccreditation of the institution and the non-compliance of the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman with art. 91a, para. 1 of the Constitution. Ms. Manolova said that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman fully meet the highest standards and expressed her full support for the bill. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Valentina Naydenova and Pavel Shopov. The President of the Commission Mr. Krasimir Velchev stated his support for the bill, noting that it is timely. Mrs. Valentina Naydenova pointed out that the proposed changes are a path in the right direction and will contribute to increasing the authority of the institution. Mr. Pavel Shopov expressed concerns about the indirect legislative initiative of the institution and the powers of the other authorities, as well as notes on the need for reaccreditation of the institution. After the debates the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held with 11 votes for the Ombudsman Act, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment and Supplement Bill of the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At its meeting held on 24 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister; by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Todor Stoyanov The draft was presented by Mrs. Ahladova, who noted that the proposed Bill provides for the Ombudsman to make proposals and recommendations to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly for the signing and ratification of international acts in the field of human rights, as well as for the Ombudsman to be informed when drafting draft legislative acts affecting his powers, such as a National Preventive Mechanism. A clear vote is put in place in the procedure for election of the Ombudsman and Deputy Ombudsman, and the requirements for taking up the position are laid down for previous human rights experience. It is proposed that the Ombudsman make proposals and recommendations to promote and protect the endangered rights and freedoms of citizens from individuals. In addition, Deputy Minister Stoyanov noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are in line with comments received on the specific texts of the UN Accreditation Sub-Committee and are approved by it, the implementation of which will provide the Ombudsman institution with full compliance with the Paris principles and will provide an opportunity to apply for the highest status of the institution. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev, Pencho Milkov and Maria Ilieva. Mr. Mitev expressed his positive opinion on the alignment of the provisions of art. 91a of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens with the Law on the Ombudsman. Mr. Milkov expressed his support for the submitted Bill, but stressed that the provision of art. 18a, para. 2 between first and second votes. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Ombudsman Act, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Ombudsman Act, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints Mr. Kutev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. At its regular meeting on 25 January 2018, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Ombudsman, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Plamen Bonchev, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Global Affairs and Mrs. Alexandra Dimitrova, diplomatic officer at the Directorate of Human Rights and by the institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dr. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman. On behalf of the institution of the Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva presented an opinion expressing full support for the submitted proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Ombudsman. She noted that the legislative changes were a response to recommendations made to Bulgaria in 2011 by the UN Accreditation Sub-Committee. They are related to the alignment of the provisions of the Law in accordance with the text of art. 91a, para. 1 of the Constitution and with the application of the highest world standards for the work of institutions for the protection of human rights. It is envisaged that the Ombudsman will advocate all rights and freedoms of citizens, whether violated by public or private entities. Ms. Kovacheva pointed out that the institution also supports the proposal of the Council of Ministers for a clear vote in the election of the Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman, as well as transparency in the appointment of the employees. He added that this would ensure greater publicity and predictability in the work of the institution. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Lyubomir Talev. He underlined that the principles of transparency, efficiency, pluralism and non-discrimination in the selection and appointment of employees in the institution are explicitly introduced. The bill provides for mandatory notification to the Ombudsman of draft legislative acts in order to be able to deliver an opinion on the regulatory impact of his powers as a national preventive mechanism. The proposed amendments and additions are in line with the recommendations made in the UN Accreditation Sub-Committee, the implementation of which will give the institution full compliance with the Paris Principles and will give it the right to apply for the highest status of a law-abiding institution. Representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed their full support for the proposed legislative changes. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Mrs. Asya Peeva, Mr. Krum Zarkov and Mrs. Milena Damyanova. Ms. Asya Peeva welcomed the team of the Ombudsman and the Council of Ministers as an importer for the activity they exercise in terms of protecting the rights of citizens and, in particular, the rights of children, expressed full support for the higher status of the institution and transparency in election and appointment. Mr. Zarkov stressed that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will support the Draft Law; made a note on the creation of a new provision providing for mandatory notification to the Ombudsman when drafting draft legislative acts concerning the possibility of practical implementation of this text; gave consideration to the obvious vote that provides transparency, but a greater guarantee of independent choice gives the procedure of secret voting. Ms. Milena Damyanova agreed with Mr. Zarkov's remarks on the coordination procedure regarding the draft laws in relation to the practice regarding the impact assessment and expressed the expectations to introduce the institution of a children's ombudsman. In the course of the discussion, it became clear that it was not all texts of draft regulations, and the purpose of the amendment was to introduce the Ombudsman in advance only to such projects that affect his powers as a national preventive mechanism. Following the discussion of the Members of the National Assembly on the interaction with non-governmental organizations and citizens' complaints unanimously, with 16 votes for the Ombudsman Act, No 802-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I'm opening the debate. Guys, come on in. Mr. Gokov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u30	Madam President, I call on you on the basis of Decision No 2 of 30 January 2018 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 8 of 2017 to remove Mr. Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] from the meeting room, since on the same basis of this Decision he is not a Member of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] And, Madam President, I would like to ask you to instruct the Quaestors not to allow Mr. Dobrev to the conference room. I think that you should take on your role as President of the National Assembly and implement the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria's decision, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there a reverse procedure? [[Heckling]] Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, the Constitutional Court's decision has been announced and is available in the administration of the National Assembly. Do not allow appearances by individual MPs in view of their personal interpretation of facts, no matter how wrong they are! Do not let them attack and insult, affect, challenge the status of a Member of the National Assembly with a mandate in force! If I have to, in any such case, I will stand up and read paragraphs of the Constitutional Court's decision, but I very much ask you to strongly sanction such behaviour. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Absolutely, yes! Absolutely, yes! I will also ask in every such case: on what basis was the mandate of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, who goes on tourism as Deputy Minister of Interior? He was a deputy minister one day, and there was a scandal, and he took it back and he wasn't interrupted. [[Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will recall the case of Ivan Portnich, whom you, as a majority, twice violated his will! You wouldn't let him go, and you allowed a third unconstitutional vote. Colleagues, you have no morals, but at least a little memory to have! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Gokov, I have no reason to take Mr.... [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll be right with you. I've got two minutes to say, don't I? [[Noise, lines, calls.]] Take it easy! Take it easy! I have no reason to have the Quaestors take Mr. Delyan Dobrev out. He is currently in office. Here's a personal explanation. A personal explanation can't happen! In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u34	Mrs. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u35	To me, yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u36	Dear colleagues, it is an undisputed fact that the illegally staying Mr. Dobrev must leave. [[Replyings, calls from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u37	There's no case right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u38	Another undeniable fact is that you should not allow things to be said in the stands here. First of all, Mr. Kirilov is about to appear in court because he doesn't know the documents and doesn't read. This speaks of his exceptional legal illiteracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u39	To me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u40	There should be no legal illiterate people allowed to speak here. Let him read decisions of the Constitutional Court and let him come out of its framework of physical and mental splits, which also concerns your attitude towards your prime minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u41	Please, not with insulting qualifications! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u42	No, the qualifications were made by Mr. Kirilov because the Constitutional Court precisely, clearly, with 12 votes said that Mr. Ivanov neither resigned from this National Assembly nor advocated as Deputy Minister, no one was... [[Noise, lines.]] And that's why, Mr. Kirilov, you're going to court!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u43	Please! Please don't argue with the parliamentary tribune, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u44	And you'll be convicted of undermining the prestige of a MP. Mr. Ivanov was then elected twice as MP and should not allow false statements to be made here. Mr. Dobrev, with the Constitutional Court's decision, must leave. The Constitutional Court gave a decision, Madam President, with 12 votes for that everything Mr. Kirilov announced here is false. And they must pay attention to their own situation, which borders between reason and behavior, which is incompetent, and ignorance. Legal incompetence is no excuse to talk nonsense here. And please, again, let Mr. Dobrev leave the room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u45	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Heckling]] There is no such decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u46	Mrs. Chairman! I appeal to you to protest what you have permitted Mr. Kirilov to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u47	Well, I gave Mr. Ivanov permission, Mr. Gokov, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u48	No, to suggest that some of the MPs were not moral. I just want to say that I'm not the one who's immune, and Mr. Dobrev is immune. [[GERB lines.]] I don't comment on what of it, but I don't think it can give Mr. Kirilov any reason to qualify someone as... [[Comments and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u49	Colleagues, let's stop this! Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u50	We're gonna shut it down, but let me tell you what this is about without them screaming out of the room. I don't know what this is about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u51	Let's put an end to this squabble! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u52	They tell me I'm taking the floor for something I'm right about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u53	They're not gonna yell at you! They're not gonna yell at you! [[Noise, lines, calls.]] Please, have a seat. Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u54	I, by the way, ask you to make an official remark to Mr. Kirilov, because he cannot afford from the stand here to declare and classify some MPs as moral or immoral. If you don't, I'll think you're not doing your duty, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I'm making a remark to all of us to behave decently from the stands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u56	Madam President, in order for our work to be more effective, I suggest that on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays BSP colleagues receive certain medicines... [[Noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u57	Oh, no! Please, Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, please! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u58	...because inappropriate speeches are being made, there is confusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u59	I'll take your word for it, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u60	It's just for the sake of parliamentaryism and working more calmly, otherwise it's very neurotic here in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u61	Please! Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u62	Mr. Gokov, after speaking from the BSP, Mr. Gokov, interpreting a constitutional solution, Mr. Gokov, the best lawyer in the BSP group...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u63	Don't label him, Mr. Dobrev! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u64	...interpreted by the tribunal decision of the Constitutional Court, I suggest that you organize for the MPs a reading course because if Mr. Gokov had read the Constitutional Court's decision carefully, he would have understood that he spoke full of nonsense from the platform of parliament, just to waste time and make the situation nervous. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. [[Replications. National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Let's get this over with, Mr. Gokov. You had your chance. Enough! We're moving on to the debate... [[(Loud noise, lines, screams.) National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.)]] It was in the way of holding me, Mr. Gokov. How many times will you take the word in the manner of conduct? This has become the most used procedure in this Parliament! Here you go, Mr. Gokov. I'll give Mr. Gokov another chance. Are you going to propose the members of this debate, who will be in the debate for reading?...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u66	No, I don't want a personal explanation! I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u67	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u68	Madam President, I am sorry and sorry that this is the third time I have taken the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct, but you have again admitted a Member of the National Assembly, who is not even a Member of the National Assembly after Constitutional Court Decision No 2... [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u69	Representative of the People, it is! Mr. Dobrev is the MP!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u70	...to qualify and insult other MPs, all the more so when I called you to make a remark to Mr. Kirilov about the same thing, you said: "I am paying attention and I am making a remark to everyone. For example, why are you making a remark to me? I didn't insult anyone. I haven't allowed myself to qualify anyone, and I have a very calm tone all the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u72	Explain why you're addressing me with a remark, not everyone else...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u73	I address all MPs because with these procedures we are wasting parliamentary time, Mr. Gokov, and we cannot do our job.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u74	We're wasting parliamentary time because I followed the procedure, and you let Mr. Kirilov waste his time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u75	It was a reverse procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u76	You could have answered on his behalf! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u77	Thank you all! We continue with the debates on the Law on the Ombudsman. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs Manolova, representatives of the Ombudsman institution! The Ombudsman's institution is active, responsible, effective for every citizen in need, working in the name of the citizens to protect their right to good governance and has raised a major priority against poverty and protection of the socially excluded Bulgarian citizens. Bulgaria must have a right-wing institution to work in accordance with the highest standards of the United Nations for the protection of human rights and this initiative deserves support. This will contribute to raising the authority of our state and will provide guarantees to the Bulgarian citizens that an institution with the highest status is working for their rights. The changes will ensure more transparency in the work of the Ombudsman and his team and will ensure that the Ombudsman's constitutional powers to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens are also laid down in the law. In fact, the Ombudsman is now defending and promoting the implementation of international acts and ensuring compliance with those in force for the Republic of Bulgaria. The battle of the Ombudsman against monopolies is well known. The campaign to protect citizens' consumer, social and labour rights is a sign of the work of the public defender. At present, the Law does not fully reflect the constitutional provision for the protection of all rights and freedoms of citizens, regardless of whether they are violated by representatives of the public or private sector, and this needs to be changed. Not only because of the United Nations organisation that gave us such a recommendation back in 2011, but because of the fact that the principle of the rule of law requires every law to be in full compliance with constitutional regulations. We support the amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman. We believe that they are timely and important in both national and international terms for the work of the public defender, but also for the explicit request by the National Assembly, the legislative authority, that citizens' rights are a matter of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Any other speakers, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we from the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" support these proposals and hope that this institution can really help the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria more and more, but between the two readings we will make the following proposal, which is important to us, is important for Bulgarian and Bulgarian language. It is high time for us as a country to respect our own language, our own traditions, customs and culture and we believe that this institution should bear a Bulgarian name because we see that some of our colleagues are talking about ombudsmàn, others about ombudsman and so on a foreign word for the Bulgarian language. We have a wonderful translation of this word. A public defender. It is high time in Bulgaria to stop honoring foreign terms and to use the beautiful Bulgarian language. Between the two readings we will propose that this institution be called the Public Defender Institution, which is most correct and which corresponds to the Bulgarian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any lines to Mr. Angelov's statement? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! As we have already said, the BSP will support the bill. Some things that, from my point of view and in my view, are important, have already been said about extending powers with regard to individuals. Personally, I support this entirely, and I think that this is something that makes sense. Moreover, in my work as President of the Complaints Committee, I see that this is necessary because we often face cases that concern relations especially in large private corporations, so this is something that I think is necessary and useful for Bulgarian citizens in terms of human rights. It is also a good text for me with the possibility for non-profit legal entities to be able to offer an ombudsman to the public. This is also an extension of possibilities. It is clearly democratic and it is something that I would fully support. The way the administration is elected by the Ombudsman is also something that makes sense and which we support, as of course, and the texts that concern the national preventive mechanism and the preliminary introduction of the Ombudsman to the legislative changes that concern him. These are all things that, in my opinion, there is no reason not to be supported. On the other hand, however, between first and second readings, we have our doubts and we will make proposals regarding at least two texts. One of them is regarding the change for a clear vote for both the Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman. We are not convinced that this increases the democratic character of the institution. On the contrary, it seems to us that this to some extent enables more control of the vote itself, so in this regard, we have our doubts. And secondly, we have doubts as to the extension of powers as to what concerns art. 19, p. 12 monitoring and promoting the effective implementation of signed and ratified international acts in the field of human rights. We have some doubts about this text and we will make the relevant changes between first and second readings, but we generally support the Bill with the idea that we will change it between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Are there any lines to Mr. Kutev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Manolova and colleagues from your team! The changes made to the Law on the Ombudsman do not essentially change the spirit of the law, they simply add to some of the changes that the Ombudsman deals with. In order not to repeat the colleagues who spoke before me about the possible increase in transparency in the election of the Ombudsman and his alternates, which he proposes, in which we have certain reservations about the fact that it is clear that the status of the Ombudsman from the "B's" is being raised in the Law, which, internationally, raises his level and allows him to have a voice in the International Coordination Committee of the National Human Rights Institutions, as well as, of course, the fact that he is already recording officially, in black and white, in the Law, that the Ombudsman may also respond to complaints against private entities, not that he has not yet been rules. I would like to comment on something which caused a slight discussion in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, namely that by the powers given to the Ombudsman to express opinions on bills concerning his work and before the Council of Ministers and before the National Assembly, it would be possible to allow the Ombudsman to enter the field of politics and to acquire an indirect legislative initiative. Firstly, we must say that the Ombudsman has the right to write opinions at the moment, and we are receiving them in our Commission, that is not a problem. Secondly, it must be clear that the Ombudsman is involved in the public life of the country, but he is also under Constitution, and by law is not entitled to interfere in the political life of the country and to express political positions. I think that's clear. Therefore, as Mr. Kutev said, we have some reservations, between first and second reading we will add them, but overall I think that at first reading it is right to support the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Velchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Obviously, all parties support this bill. I'll say it again, it's timely. There are many positive and necessary things that need to be included in this law, both about the status and what is being introduced, that the Ombudsman really needs to be informed when draft legislative acts are being drawn up. What my colleagues have said, I have also pointed out in the report. We also support this project. I also agree with BSP colleagues that there are some things between first and second readings that we need to refine them because they are not quite accurate and clearly said. This will be between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u88	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the ministries and the Ombudsman institution! The Parliamentary Group will support the proposed changes, of course not only, but also because we are the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. A significant thing is what is proposed to supplement the Law and acquire this status is something very important for the Ombudsman institution, for all Bulgarian citizens, but we should all have an attitude subsequently and in terms of helping to secure these rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens, not letting only certain institutions work on this issue. So the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman importing the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2018. Vote 166 MPs: 165, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Thank you to our guests. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKETS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES. Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act by 10 days. If colleagues support this proposal, I will pay attention to all MPs and invite them to a working group with all relevant copyright and related rights organizations on the 6th, Tuesday, at 10:00. "Knyaz Alexander I" Hall 238. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. They voted 123 MPs: 118, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u92	The Commission shall support the importer's texts on the name of Section VI and Articles 96 to 98 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u93	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VI and Articles 96 to 98 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section VII and Articles 99 to 101 by importer. The Commission shall support the importer's texts on the names of Chapter Eight and Section I and Articles 102 to 104 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u95	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VII and Articles 99 to 101 by importer, as well as the names of Chapter Eight and Section I, and Articles 102 to 104 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105, by offering in para. 2 all over the text, the words "trade places" shall be replaced by "trade places."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u97	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 105 with the corresponding version Mrs. Stoyanova read. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u98	The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 106 to 108 and the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u99	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote Articles 106 to 108 on the text of the importer and the name of Section II. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u100	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109: Additional organizational requirements Art. 109. (1) An investment firm which organises an MTF or an OCTs, in addition to the requirements of art. Art. 65, Art. Art. 69, Art. 92 The 98 shall adopt and implement clear rules and procedures providing fair and fair trade and shall define and apply objective criteria for the effective execution of orders. (2) The investment firm under para. 1 fulfils the following requirements: 1. establish conditions for the sound management of the technical operations of the trading system, including the adoption and implementation of a trading continuity plan, in order to manage the risks of system collapse; 2. adopt clear rules specifying the criteria to be met by the financial instruments to be traded on the MTF it organises, respectively the OCTs; 3. take the necessary measures to ensure access to relevant publicly available information where available and necessary for making an informed investment decision by participants in the trading system, in accordance with the type of participants and financial instruments traded through the system; 4. adopt and apply clear and non-discriminatory rules based on objective criteria governing access to the trading system and making available on its website; 5. take measures to identify and manage potential adverse effects on the functioning of the MTF or OCTs or on members, participants or users of the trading system arising from conflicts of interest between the interests of the MTF, respectively the OCTs, their holders or investment firm organising the MTF or OCTs, and the proper functioning of the MTF or OCTs; 6. comply with the requirements of art. 170 " 179', for which he has taken the necessary measures, and has created and maintained the necessary effective systems, procedures and mechanisms; 7. ensure the availability of at least three really active members or users of the MTF, respectively the OCTs, and each of them may interact with the others in relation to the determination of the price of the traded financial instruments. (3) In cases where transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market are also traded on an MTF or an OTF without the consent of the issuer, the issuer may not be obliged to disclose initial, subsequent or incidental information relating to the trading of the relevant MTF or an OTF.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u101	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 109 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u102	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 110: settles in relation to settlement of transactions concluded Art. 110. (1) The investment firm shall clearly inform the members or participants of the MTF, respectively the OCTs organised by it, of the responsibility they carry for settlement of transactions executed through the trading system. (2) The investment firm shall take the necessary measures to facilitate the settlement of transactions concluded through the MTF it organises, respectively, the OCTs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u103	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 110 on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u104	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111, by offering in para. 6 words to be replaced by the trading venue to be replaced by the trading venue to be replaced by the trading venue to be replaced by the trading venue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u105	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 111 with the corresponding version read by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u106	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. Madam President, the title of art. 112. I propose to include the title of art. 112 sssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u107	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposed name of art. 112, the name of Section III and art. 112 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 113 to Art. 113 117 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u109	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Section IV and art. From 113 to 117 by importer which the Commission supports. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u110	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u111	Statements? I don't see any speeches? I shall put the name of Section V to the vote, art. Art. 118, Art. 119 by importer which the Commission supports. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u112	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121, by offering in para. 1 the words "tradeplaces" to be replaced by "tradeplaces."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u113	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put the name of Section VI to the vote, art. Art. 120, Art. 121 with the corresponding editing made by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u115	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of Section VII and Articles 122 to 124, including by importer, which the Commission supports. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u116	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125 and offers the following version of art. 125: Unsubscribe the MTF from the register of growth markets Art. 125. (1) The Financial Supervision Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall decide to write off the MTF from the Register of Growth Markets where: 1. the investment firm has not complied with the requirement under art. 122, para. 1 within the time limit set by the Commission and has not submitted a plan to fulfil the requirement for the following calendar year; or 2. the investment firm shall not fulfil the condition of art. 122, para. 1 for three consecutive calendar years; or 3. The MTF has ceased to meet any of the other requirements of art. 123, para. 1, t. 2 et c. 3; 4. the investment firm has requested the write-off of the MTF from the register of growth markets. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 4 The investment firm shall submit an application to which it applies data and documents specified by a regulation. The Financial Supervision Commission shall decide on the application within 14 working days. The Financial Supervision Commission may refuse to write off an MTF from the Register of Growth Markets if the interests of investors or the normal functioning of the market can thus be jeopardised.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u117	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 125 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 134.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u119	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 126, Art. 127, the name of Chapter 9a and art. 128 to 134 including by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u120	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Art. 135 to art. 140 including the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u121	Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I shall put the name of Chapter 10a, Section I and Articles 135 to 140 to the importer and the name of Section II to the vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u122	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u123	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put the name of Section III to the vote, art. Art. 141, Art. 142 by importer supported by the Commission. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u124	They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 143 to Art. 149 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 150. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 151.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u126	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section IV, the name of Section V, Articles 143 to 151, supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u127	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 152 157 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u128	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on Title Two, Chapter eleventh, Section I and Article 2. 152 to 157 inclusive. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u129	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 158: "Requirements to the market operator's management and control bodies Art. 158. (1) The members of the management and control body of the market operator, as well as the persons managing its activity, shall be persons of good reputation, of the necessary knowledge, skills and of diverse qualifications and professional experience corresponding to the activity of the market operator and to the main risks associated with the activity of the regulated market, and shall ensure the sound and reasonable management and functioning of the regulated market. The persons referred to in the sentence shall first: 1. possess higher education, qualification and professional experience for at least three years in the field of economics, law, finance, banking or information; 2. not to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 3. were not members of a management or control body or unlimited liability partners in a company terminated due to bankruptcy if there were remaining unsatisfied creditors; 4. not to be declared bankrupt or not to be in insolvency proceedings; 5. not to be related persons within the meaning of this law; 6. shall not be deprived of the right to take a materially responsible position; 7. do not otherwise endanger the stability and prudent management and operations of the regulated market. (2) The managing authority, respectively the market operator's control body, shall, depending on the internal distribution of functions, be responsible for: 1. the effective and reliable management of the market operator and its regulated market in accordance with the regulatory requirements, including the appropriate allocation of obligations and responsibilities in determining the organisational structure; 2. the adoption of the rules of art. 167 and control of its implementation; 3. prevention and identification of conflicts of interest in such a way as to ensure the integrity of the market; 4. the effectiveness of the management systems of the regulated market and of the market operator, taking measures, if necessary, to address the identified discrepancies. (3) For the members of the management and control bodies as well as for the persons managing the activity, the requirements under art. Art. 14, art. Art. 15, art. 62, para. Art. 1, art. 63, para. 1, 2 and para. 3 sentence one, para. 4 "6" and art. 64, para. 1 and para. 7. (4) In cases where a market operator is significant, the requirements of the managing and control bodies under art. 14 (except in cases where a member of the management or control body is a representative of the State) and the requirements of art. 63 shall apply accordingly. (5) In cases where the market operator and the regulated market are separate legal entities, the requirements of para. 1 and 2 apply to the regulated market, respectively. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 159.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u130	Are there any speeches on the proposed text of art. Art. 158, Art. 159? I don't see any requests for speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 158 as proposed by the Commission and Art. 159. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section ΙΙΙ. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 160, by offering in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 After the words, "sends an application to the Committee on Models' to be added to the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 161 and 162.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u132	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We vote on the name of Section ΙΙΙ and on the wording of Articles 160 to 162 with the proposal for an addition to the text of art. 160, made by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 163: "Next application Art. 163. In the case of refusal, the applicant may submit a new application for a licence not earlier than 6 months after the entry into force of the withdrawal decision. The Commission shall support the importer's texts as Articles 164 to 166 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u134	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 163 in the version of the Commission and the wording of Articles 164 to 166. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u135	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section Ι. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 167.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u136	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We vote on the name of Chapter twelfth, the name of Section Ι and the text of art. 167 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 168, by offering in para. 1, t. 1 the words the functions delegated to the regulated market by the committee shall be replaced by the functions of the regulated market; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 169.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u138	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposals? I can't see. We shall vote on the wording of art. 168 with the amendment proposed by the Commission and the text of art. 169 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section ΙΙΙ. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer from art. Art. 170 to art. 174 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u140	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the name of Section ΙΙΙ and on the wording of Articles 170 to 174, including by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 175, proposing that the name be amended as follows: Direct electronic access to the regulated market. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 176 to 178.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u142	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 175 with the proposed change in the name and texts of the importer supported by the Commission for Articles 176 to 178. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u143	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 179, by offering in para. 1 the words "tradeplaces" to be replaced by "tradeplaces." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 180.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u144	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. 179 with the proposed change in the version of the Commission and Art. 180 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u145	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section ΙΙΙΙ. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 181, by offering in para. 4 words to be replaced by the trading places to be replaced by the trading places.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u146	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the name of Section ΙΙΙΙ and the text in art. 181 with the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u147	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section ΙV. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as members from 182 to 185 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u148	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section ΙV and the texts of the importer as members from 182 to 185 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 186.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u150	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section V and the text of the importer as art. 186 supported by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u151	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VΙ. The Commission supports the entries of the importer as members from 187 to 189 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u152	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VΙ and the texts of the importer as members from 187 to 189 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter XIII. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 190 and 191.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u154	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter XIII and the texts of the importer for Articles 190 and 191, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title Three. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 192, by offering in para. 2, p. 3 the words "compliance between" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u156	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Title Three, the name of Chapter fourteen and the text of Art. 192, edited by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u157	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 193 and 194 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u158	Thank you. Are there any statements on both texts? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. We are going to vote on the texts of art. 193 and 194 by importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 195, proposing in the name the words "tradeplaces' to be replaced by "tradeplaces'. The Commission shall also support the text of the importer as Articles 196 to 199 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u160	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the texts of art. 195 with the proposal for replacement in the text of art. 195, as well as the texts of art. 196 to 199 including the importer's report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u161	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and for art. 200. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 201, by offering in para. 1 words to be replaced by the trading venue and in para. 4 at the end to be added to the definition according to art. 83 of Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u162	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the name of Chapter 15 and the text in art. Art. 200 and art. 201 by the proposal made pursuant to the version of the Commission amending the text of art. 201. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 202 to 204.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the texts of art. 202 to 204 including the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are continuing with the report "Share Four."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u165	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 16th. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 205. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 206.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u166	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote on the name of Title Four, the name of Chapter 16 and the texts of art. 205 and 206 according to the importer's report. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u167	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter seventeenth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 207. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 208. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 209.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u168	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts of Chapter 17? I don't see any requests for a statement. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 17 and the texts of Articles 207 to 209, including on the importer's report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter eighteen. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art. 210, Art.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u170	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 18 and the text of art. 210, 211, 212 and 213 including the report. We'll wait for Mr. Gokov, there's a problem. Please intervene, there is a problem several times. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 214, by offering in para. 1 the word "supplier" to be replaced by "supplier." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 215. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 216, by offering in para. 2 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 217.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u172	Thank you. Are there any statements on the reported texts from art. Article 214 217? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of art. 214 with the proposed replacement in this text, art. 215 according to the importer's report, art. 216 with the proposed replacement in the text of the importer and art. 217 on the report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u173	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Nineteenth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 218. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 219. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 220: Additional organizational requirements Art. 220. The additional organisational requirements for the operations of the APAs are laid down by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/571 of 2 June 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the licensing of data reporting services providers, their organisational requirements and the publication of transaction information (OJ, L 87/126 of 31 March 2017.), hereinafter referred to as the "Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any statements on the reported texts of Chapter 19? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Nineteenth, the text of art. Article 218, according to the importer's report, Art. 219, Art. 219 220 with the amendment made by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 221, 222 and 223. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 224: Additional organizational requirements Art. 224. The additional organisational requirements for the activities of the CAPs are laid down by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/371.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u176	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 12a, art. 221, 222, 223 according to the importer's report and art. 224 with the version made by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-First. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 225 and 226. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 227: Additional organizational requirements Art. 227. The additional organisational requirements for the activities of the CAPs are defined by Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u178	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Twenty-First, the texts of art. 225, 226 according to an importer's report and the text of art. 227 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u179	Part three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Three. Title one. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title One. Chapter twenty-two. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Two. Article 228, art. Art. 229, Art. Article 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. 230, Art. Art. 231, Art. 231 Art. 232, Art. Art. 233, Art. Article 234, Art. Art. 235, Art. Art. 236, Art. Art. 237, Art. Art. 238, Art. Art. 239, Art. Art. 240, Art. Art. 241, Art. Art. 242, Art. Art. 243, Art. Art. 244, Art. 244 Art. 245, art. Art. 246, Art. Art. 247, Art. Article 248 Art. 249, art. Art. 250, Art. 251. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 228 to art. 251 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u180	Are there any statements on the reported texts? There are no requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the name of "Chapter twenty-two" "Supporting on a consolidated basis" and the reported proposals for texts of members from 228 to art. 251 including, according to an importer's report. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u181	Title two. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-third. Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 252 to 256 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u182	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We vote on the name of Title Two, the name of Chapter Twenty-Three, the name of Section I and the wording of Articles 252 to 256, including, on the importer's report. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u183	Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Articles 257 to 257. 262 inclusive. Article 263. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 263, by offering in para. 2 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 48..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u184	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section II, the texts proposed by the importer of art. Art. 257 to Art. 257 Art. 262 and the text of Art. 262 263 by the amendment proposed by the Commission in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u185	Art. 1 (1) (a) Article 264 267. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 264 to 267 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u186	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the import proposals for texts of Articles 264 to 267 inclusive. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u187	Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section Three. Article 268 to Art. 268 272. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 268 to art. 272 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u188	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of Section III as well as the texts of art. 268 to Art. 268 272 according to the importer's report. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u189	Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 273.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u190	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the name of Section IV and the text of art. 273 according to an importer's report. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The proposed titles and text have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u191	Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section 5. Article 274 and Article 274 275. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 274, Art. 274 275.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u192	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Section V and the texts of art. 274 and 275, which it contains, according to an importer's report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u193	Title three. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Title Three: Administrative criminal liability and criminal penalties. Chapter twenty-four. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-four. Article 276. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 276, by offering in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words "member of a management or control body of the investment firm' to be added to the tied agent' and after the words "have carried out or carried out activity in violation of this law' to add to the acts implementing it, the applicable acts of the European Union, including that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u194	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Title Three, the name of Chapter Twenty-four, the text of art. 276 on a report on the proposed amendment to the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u195	Article 277, Art. 277, Art. Art. 278, Art. 279. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 277, 278, 279. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 280: "Enforcement of a restraining and forbidden" Art. 280. (1) In the cases of art. 276, para. 1 where it is necessary to ensure the immediate effective protection of investors' interests or to take urgent action to prevent or suspend violations of this law and its implementing acts, the Commission may request from the relevant competent court the imposition of a Preservation Order, respectively a prohibition on the property of legal persons under art. 276, para. 1. (2) The decision of the Commission and the application for admission shall be dealt with immediately by the court on the day of its submission. (3) The Court shall rule by order in which it shall also state the time limit for which the lien is required. (4) On the basis of the order of the court respecting the application, an order shall be issued for the imposition of a Preservation Order. (5) The imposition of a lien and/or prohibition shall be carried out immediately by the court contractor in accordance with art. 400 of the Civil Procedure Code. (6) In the case of respectable reasons, at the request of the Commission, the term under para. 3 can be extended. The application shall be lodged before the expiry of the initial time limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? We are discussing the texts of art. Art. 277 to Art. 277 280. There are no requests to make a statement. Vote art. Art. 277, Art. Art. 278, Art. 279 in the version of the Report, as well as Art. 280 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u197	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 281, Art. Art. 282, Art. 283.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u198	Are there any statements on the three texts..... 281, 282 and 283? I can't see. We are going to vote on the texts of the importer's report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u199	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Five. Mr. Chairman, to art. 284 I am making an editorial proposal to add a title to art. 284, i.e. "Tain client." The Commission supports the version of the importer for 284.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u200	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made to supplement the text with the title of art. 284. The title to be a secret client, it coincides with the title of the Head. That's all the contents, of course. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the title of Chapter Twenty-Five to the just included and voted title of Art. 284 and the text of Art. 284 according to the importer's report. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-Six and Articles 285 to 289 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u202	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-Six and the texts proposed by the importer in Articles 285 to 289, including on the report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u203	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Seven. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 290, offering: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 2 after the words..................................................................................... 191 "To be added" Art. 227a, Art. Art. 227c, Art. 227d, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 227g. Art. 227c, Art. Art. 227m, Art. Art. 227n, Art. 227p b) to create t. 16: ..16. for violation of applicable requirements of an EU regulation, to the extent that nothing else is provided for by the law... from 2500 to 500 000 2. In para. 2 to create t. 13: "13." for infringements under para. 1, t. 16 from 5,000 to 1 000 000 BGN; 3. In para. 9. (a) in the text before t. 1 words "al." 1 "7" shall be replaced by "al." 1 and para. 3 - 7 b) to create t. 16: ..16. for infringements under para. 1, t. 16 from 5000 to 1 000 000 BGN, and in the case of replay from 10 000 to 2 000 BGN. 4. Alinea 12 to be amended as follows: In determining the administrative penalty under para. 1, t. 12 and 13, para. 2, p. 9 and 10 and para. 9, p. 8 and 9 Vice-Presidents shall take into account the circumstances under art. 43 of Regulation (EU) No are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u204	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-Seven and the text of Art. 290 according to the importer's report, supplemented by the Commission proposal, which Mrs. Angelova just introduced us to. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for a head name and content of the text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u205	The Commission shall support the importer's test for members from 291 to art. 298 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u206	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the texts proposed by the importer in Articles 291 to 298 inclusive. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u207	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 by: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 18, point (a) and (b) of Part Two shall be replaced by the titles two, nine, and shall be replaced by the words "Part Two'. 2. Paragraph 50 shall be amended as follows: 50. Debt securities issued by a sovereign issuer shall be debt financial instruments issued by a sovereign issuer. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 62 after the words "injury of the law" to be added to the law of the European Union. 4. Paragraph 75 to be amended as follows: It's 75. The market operator is a market operator when at least two of the following annual requirements are met for its trading venues in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: (a) members or participants of those trading venues shall be more than 50 per cent of the investment firms operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including banks of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) transactions concluded on those trading venues shall be more than 50 percent of the transactions concluded on trading venues in the Republic of Bulgaria; (c) more than 50 percent of the financial instruments issued on the Bulgarian market are traded on these trading venues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u208	Are there any speeches on the proposal for the name of the Section and the text of § 1? There are no speakers. We are going to vote on the name "Additional provisions" and the content of § 1 of the Additional provisions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u209	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 2 and 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4. ............................................ (1) The provisions of art. 5, para. Art. 4, Art. 19th para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 33-41, Art. 45, para. Art. 5, art. Art. 47, Art. 48, para. Art. 1, art. 64, para. 2, p. Art. 1, 7 and 8, Art. 65, para. 1, t. 1-13 para. Art. 2, Art. 69, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 70-89, Art. 92, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 95, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 96-100, Art. Art. 102-107, Art. Art. 109, Art. Article 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 111, para. Art. 1-5, Art. Art. 112-115, Art. Art. 117, Art. Art. 118-127, Art. 187, para. Art. 2-4, Art. Article 256, 263-267 shall also apply to credit institutions where they provide one or more investment services and/or carry out investment activities. (2) The provisions of art. Art. 16, art. Art. 53-60, Art. 70, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 90, Art. Art. 91, Art. 128, para. Art. 3, Art. Article 129 130 shall also apply respectively to management companies. (3) The provisions of art. 5, para. Art. 4, Art. 64, para. Art. 2, Art. 65, para. Art. 1, 2 and 5, Art. Art. 67, Art. 69, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Art. 71, Art. Art. 72, Art. 73, Art. 76, para. Art. 1-5, Art. Art. 78, Art. Art. 81, Art. 82, para. Art. 2, Art. 85, para. 1 and para. Art. 8, Art. Art. 86, Art. Art. 92, Art. 93, para. Art. 1, 3, 4 and 5 and art. 94, para. 1 and 2 and the implementing acts as well as the provisions referred to in art. 1 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to organisational requirements and operating conditions by investment firms and setting out definitions for the purposes of that Directive (OB, L 86/1 of 31 March 2017)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No', shall apply respectively to management companies providing services under art. 86, para. 2 of the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. (4) For violation of the provisions of para. 2 and 3 The Commission, respectively, the Vice-President, may apply the relevant compulsory administrative measures provided for in this Act. Articles 279 "289' shall apply accordingly. (5) For violation of the provisions of para. 1-3 Vice-Presidents shall impose the corresponding fines and penalties provided for in this Act. Articles 295 to 296 shall apply accordingly. (6) The fines and penalties for infringements under Regulation 600/2014/EU, Regulation 648/2012/EU, Regulation 2015/2365/EU, Regulation 2016/1011/EU shall apply insofar as nothing else is provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u210	Are there any statements on the reported texts of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the Additional Provisions? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the texts of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 as amended by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. It's 11:30. I declare a recess until 12:00 when we will continue with the texts of the Law under consideration. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u211	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the review of the Report at the second reading of the Financial Instruments Markets Bill. Before the break, we voted on the wording of § 4. Mrs. Angelova, please continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u212	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u213	Are there any statements under § 5? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on the text of § 5 by importer, not supported by the Commission. In order for there to be no confusion, I am explaining that we are voting for § 5 to be dropped. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted, § 5 is out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u214	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u215	Are there any statements under § 6? I can't see. We are voting on the import text for § 6. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u216	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8, which shall become paragraphs 6 and 7. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... (1) The persons who, by the date of entry into force of this Law, organise an OCTs shall apply for authorisation, respectively, under the order of this Law, within three months of its entry into force. (2) The persons under para. 1 shall not be entitled to operate as an OCTs until a licence to operate under art. 6, para. 2, p. 9. (3) Investment firms and banks shall, by the time this law enters into force, carry out algorithmic trading, bring their activities into line with it and provide evidence thereof to the Commission within three months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name "Transitional and final provisions', which the Commission has addressed, the text of § 7, which is the text of § 6, supported by the Commission, the text of the report of § 8, which becomes § 7, which is the wording of § 9, which becomes § 8 as proposed by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9. The Commission proposes to reject § 11 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 42. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12, which shall become § 10: ....10.......................................................................... The proceedings under art. 26 E of the repealed Financial Instruments Markets Act shall be completed in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The Financial Supervision Commission shall adopt the regulations on the application of this law within three months of its entry into force. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... The regulations adopted on the application of the repealed Law on Markets in Financial Instruments shall remain effective insofar as they do not conflict with this law and with European Union law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u218	Are there any speeches on the proposed texts? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of § 10, which becomes § 9 in the Commission report, § 11 to be rejected, a proposal from the Commission, § 12, which becomes § 10, § 10, § 13, which becomes § 11 by the Commission, and § 14, which becomes § 12 by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u219	According to § 15 there is a proposal of Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §15, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122f, para. 2 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. The company has committed, or has committed, gross or systematic infringements of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing and reuse transactions and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 337/1 of 23.12.2015).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123c, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123d, para. 17 words shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1, t. 1 the words "after acquiring the right to a pension for internship and age under Part One' shall be replaced by "under the conditions of art. 167........................................................................................... 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229c, para. 6 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229d, para. 4 the words of the Vice-President of the Commission, respectively, shall be deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the following shall be added after the words (bb) points 18 and 19 are repealed. (b) in para. 2 t. 20 is repealed; (c) in para. 4 is created sentence two: "The measures under para. 1, t. 1 may also apply to persons operating without a licence or authorisation which is required under this code. 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 344a: supplied administrative measures for infringements related to the main information documents for packages of retail investment products Art. 344a. (1) To prevent and stop violations of art. Art. 5, par. 1, art. Art. 6 and 7 Article 8, paragraphs 1-3, Art. Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, par. 1, art. Art. 13 (1), (3) and (4) 14 and 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products (PIDSI) (OB, L 352/1 of 9 December 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014', and its implementing acts, as well as the prevention and elimination of their harmful effects, the Commission may apply the following enforcement administrative measures: 1. ban the conclusion of insurance contracts; 2. to suspend the conclusion of insurance contracts for a certain period; 3. prohibit the provision of a key information document which does not comply with the requirements of art. 6, 7, 8 or 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 and require a new version of the key information document to be issued; 4. to give mandatory prescriptions for taking other specific measures within a specified period. (2) The measures under para. 1 shall apply to unemployment insurance companies and/or professional qualifications, their employees, persons exercising management functions in companies and persons authorised to enter into insurance contracts. (3) When the Commission has applied the measures under para. 1 or the Vice-President of the Commission has imposed administrative punishment under art. 351a, the committee, respectively the Vice-President of the Commission, may request from the person under para. 2 send a message to the insured person or insured person concerned, providing him with information on the enforcement measure or the administrative penalty imposed and informing him where he may lodge a complaint or claim for compensation. (4) The Commission may publish a warning indicating the person responsible for the infringement of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 or of an act implementing it. (5) In determining the type of enforcement measure, the Commission shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014. (6) In the application of forced administrative measures under para. 1 shall not apply the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code on the explanations and objections of the persons concerned. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 346a, para. the following points are inserted (b) in para. 2 after the words..................................................................................... 344, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 344a, para. Art. 9. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Article 351a (c) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) "Accomplishment for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 and its implementing acts. Art. 351a. (1) A person exercising managerial functions in an unemployment and/or professional qualification insurance company, an employee of the company and a person authorised to conclude insurance contracts, who has committed or has committed infringement of: 1. Article 5 (1) (b) Art. 6 and 7 Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, par. 1, art. Art. 13 (1), (3) and (4) Art. 14 or art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 is punishable by a fine of BGN 2500 to BGN 1 400 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, other than those referred to in paragraph 2. 1, or an act of its application, shall be punished with a fine of BGN 1500 to 700 000. (2) In the case of a repeated infringement under para. 1 the guilty person shall be punished with a fine in the amount as follows: 1. for violations under para. 1, t. 1 from 5000 to 2,800 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for violations of para. 1, t. 2 - from 3000 to 1,400 000 lv. (3) For violations under para. 1 supplier of an unemployment insurance company and/or professional qualification shall be subject to a penalty in amounts as follows: 1. for violations under para. 1, t. 2 000 to 10 000 000 BGN, and in the event of a repeated violation from 40,000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for violations of para. 1, t. 2 - from 10 000 to 5 000 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated violation from 20 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (4) In determining the administrative penalty, the Vice-President of the Commission shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014. (5) The income acquired from the activity unlawfully carried out shall be taken away for the benefit of the State to the extent that it cannot be reimbursed to the injured persons. Responsibility for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OB, L 201/1 of 27 July 2012) (Regulation (EU) No 648/2012) and its implementing acts Art. 351b. (1) A person exercising a leading position in a pension insurance company, or an employee of the company who committed or allowed a violation of Title 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, shall be punished with a fine from 5000 to 20 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 40 000 BGN. (2) The pension insurance company, which committed a violation of Title 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, shall be punished with a penalty of 10 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 80 000 BGN. Responsibility for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 Art. 351c. (1) Person exercising a leading position in a pension insurance company who has committed or has committed a violation of art. 4 or 15 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 shall be punished with a fine from 5000 to 5 000 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (2) Pension insurance company which committed a violation of art. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 is punishable by a penalty of 10 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (3) Pension insurance company which committed a violation of art. 15 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 is punishable by a penalty of 20 000 to 80 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40 000 to 30 000 BGN. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 354, para. 1 after the words "this code' shall be commaed and added to Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 and their implementing acts. 11. In the Additional Provisions: (a) in §1: (aa) c. 4e the words "art." 5, para. 2, p. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No (bb) c. 32 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (b) in § 1a: (aa) The current text becomes para. 1; (bb) The creation of para. 2: The Code provides for implementing measures of Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents for retail packages of investment products and insurance-based investment products (PIDSI), of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories and of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. 12. In the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code (inc. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: .) in § 154, para. The second sentence of the sentence of paragraph 6 shall be deleted from the date of its entry into force; (b) Paragraph 163, para. 3 prior to the words................................................................................................................ 1, § 21, t. 2, § 22, t. 2, 4 and 5................................................................................................ 2 (d) shall be replaced by the Union (s) and the words (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any statements on the proposed wording of § 15, which becomes § 13? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I shall put to the vote the text which is edited by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The proposal for the wording of § 15, which becomes § 13, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u221	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §16, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Insurance Code: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 2 is created t. 11: "11." the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has committed, or has committed, gross or systematic infringements of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 337/1 of 2015).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3: (aa) c. 6 is finally a comma and is added to the cases under art. 24, para. 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products (PIDSI) (OB, L 352/1 of 9 December 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014', issue a temporary or permanent prohibition to trade a package with a retail investment product and an insurance-based investment product'; bb) To be created t. 12 and 13: ..12. prohibit the provision of a key information document which does not comply with the requirements of art. 6, 7, 8 or 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 and require a new version of the key information document to be issued; 13. publish a warning indicating the person responsible for the infringement of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 or an implementing act. (b) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 3, p. 3, 5 and 6' are replaced by "al'. 3, p. 3, 5, 6, 12 and 13 (c) in para. 7 words................................................................................. 3, p. 1 and 8s shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 3, p. 1, 6, 8, 12 and 13 and finally a comma is placed and the forced administrative measures under para. 2, p. 1 may apply to persons operating without authorisation or authorisation which is required under this code of lading; (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. In determining the type of forced measures under para. 3, p. 6, 12 and 13 The Commission shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No1286/2014. (11) The measures under para. 3, p. 6, proposal two, t. 12 and 13 shall not apply to shareholders or co-operators holding directly with or through related persons 10 or more than 10 percent of the votes in the general meeting or the capital of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. (12) When the Commission has applied the measures under para. 3 or the Vice-President has imposed administrative punishment under art. 646a, the committee, the Vice-President respectively, may require the person to whom the forced administrative measure has been applied or to whom the administrative penalty has been imposed to send a message directly to the insured person concerned, providing him with information on the forced administrative measure or the penalty and informing him of where he may lodge a complaint or claim for damages. 4. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 646a "646c: "Accomplishment for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 Art. 646a. (1) For violation of art. Art. 5, par. 1, art. Art. 6 and 7 8, Paragraphs 1 to 3 Art. Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, par. 1, art. Art. 13 (1), (3) and (4) Art. 14 or art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 the following is imposed: penalties: 1. fine of 2500 lv. up to BGN 1,400,000. For a natural person; 2. a penalty of 20 000 leva. up to 10 000 000 leva. For a legal person or for a sole trader. (2) For infringement of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, other than those referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, 1 or an act implementing it shall impose the following penalties: 1. fine of 1500 lv. up to 700,000 leva. For a natural person; 2. a penalty of 10 000 leva. up to 5 000 000 leva. For a legal person or for a sole trader. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 and 2 the penalty shall be as follows: 1. for violations under para. 1, t. 1 from 5000 to 2,800 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for violations of para. 1, t. 2 - from 40,000 to 20 000 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for violations under para. 2, p. 1 from 3000 to 1,400 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for violations of para. 2, p. 2 000 to 10 000 000 leva. (4) When determining the administrative penalty, the Vice-President shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014. Responsibility for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OB, L 201/1 of 27 July 2012) (Regulation (EU) No 648/2012) and its implementing acts Art. 646b. (1) A person exercising a leading position in an insurance, reinsurance or insurance intermediary or an employee of an insurance, reinsurance or insurance intermediary who has committed or committed a breach of Title 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 shall be punished with a fine from 5000 to 20 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 40 000 BGN. (2) An insurance, reinsurance or insurance intermediary who has committed a breach of Title 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 shall be punished with a penalty of 10 000 to 40 000 BGN and, in case of repeated infringement, from 20 000 to 80 000 BGN. Responsibility for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 Art. 646c. (1) Person exercising a leading position in an insurance or reinsurance undertaking who has committed or has committed an infringement of art. 4 or 15 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 shall be punished with a fine from 5000 to 5 000 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (2) Insurance or reinsurance undertaking which has committed a breach of art. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 is punishable by a penalty of 10 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (3) Insurance or re-insurer who has committed a violation of art. 15 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 is punishable by a penalty of 20 000 to 80 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40 000 to 30 000 BGN. 5. In the Additional Provisions: (a) §1, t. 30: (aa) in the letter.................................................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with (bb) in point (b) (b) (b) the words.......................................) are replaced by..............................................................................................................................................................................................................) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. (b) in § 7: (aa) The current text becomes para. 1; (bb) The creation of para. 2: The Code provides for implementing measures of Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents for retail packages of investment products and insurance-based investment products (PIDSI), of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories and of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 16, which becomes § 14, in the version proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u223	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...), in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 is amended as follows: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (OB, L 257/1 of 28 August 2014.), Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 176/1 of 27 June 2013.), Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014) or of implementing acts by a worker or an employee is not a breach of para. 1, t. 8 except in cases where the same person intentionally communicates false information. A sentence shall also apply to a worker or employee against whom a notice of infringement has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u224	Thank you. Are there any statements on the wording of § 15? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 17, which becomes § 15 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u225	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §18, which shall become §16: ......... 16........................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 1 after the words the agents involved shall be added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 7 is finally added to the cases provided for in this law. (b) A new item shall be created. 15: ..15. is a competent authority for the application of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014);), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', as regards financial instruments; c) create t. 16.. 18: ..16. is a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products (PIDSIPPs) (OB, L 352/1 of 9 December 2014.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014', as regards packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products created, sold and recommended by supervised entities to the Commission; 17. is a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OB, L 171 of 29 June 2016.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2016/1011, except for cases which have been provided in explicit competence of the Bulgarian National Bank and is also a body responsible for coordinating cooperation and exchange of information under art. 40, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011; 18 is a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 337/1 of 23.12.2015).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No', in the cases provided for in that law; (d) the so-called t. 15 is going to be t. 19. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 31.. 33: ..31. on a proposal from the alternate vice-president shall exercise the powers of a competent authority under art. Art. 5, par. 1, art. Art. 11, Art. 11. Art. 12, par. 2, art. Art. 14-20, Art. Article 21 (4) and Article 21 (4) 22 (1) first sub-paragraph (in the part of authorisation to a central counterparty), and second sub-paragraph, Art. Art. 24, Art. Art. 30, Art. 32, Art. Art. 41, par. 2, art. Art. 48, par. 3, art. Art. 49, par. 1, art. 54 of Regulation 648/2012; 32. on a proposal from the alternate vice-president shall exercise the powers under Article 32. 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 and implements the forced administrative measures provided for in Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014; 33. upon a proposal from the alternate vice-president issues, refuses to issue, revokes, recognises, deletes and suspends the licences provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, approvals and applications; 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 is added at the end and 31 is added to 33 is added; (b) c. 4 the words "Fourth," Chapter 1 and Chapter 1 shall be replaced by "Day Three, Chapter Twenty-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four-Four.' (c) c. 6 and 7 after the words "Regulation (EU) 2015/760' shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, Regulation (EU) No'; (d) c. 16 after the words "Regulation (EU) Buttons', the words "Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, Regulation (EU) No' shall be inserted. (e) create a t. 17, 18 and 19: Seventeen. exercise powers of a competent authority under art. Art. 4 (2) Article 10 (1) and (5) Art. 11, par. 6, art. 10, art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 22 (1) first sub-paragraph (in the supervisory part of a central counterparty), art. Art. 35, art. 38 (3) of Regulation 648/2012: (a) for financial counterparties under art. 2 paragraph 8 of Regulation 648/2012, which are persons referred to in art. 1, para. 2, p. 1; (b) for non-financial counterparties under art. Article 2 (9) of Regulation 648/2012; 18. exercise powers of a competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 for counterparties under art. 3, p. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365, which are persons under the heading 17 letters...................................................................................................................... 19. exercise the powers of a competent authority within the meaning of Article 19. 4 paragraph 8 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products created, distributed or recommended by investment firms, investment firms banks, management companies, investment companies, alternative investment fund managers which are not granted in the explicit competence of the Commission; 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "s 21' are replaced by "s 21', "21', "31' and "32'; (b) New items shall be created. 7? 9: "7." exercise powers of a competent authority under art. Art. 4 (2) Article 10 (1) and (5) 11 paragraphs 6 "10 of Regulation 648/2012 for financial and non-financial counterparties under art. 2, p. 8 and 9 of Regulation 648/2012, which are persons referred to in art. 1, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. exercise the powers under Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 for counterparties under art. 3, p. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365, which are persons referred to in art. 1, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 9. exercise the powers of a competent authority within the meaning of art. 4 paragraph 8 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products created, distributed or recommended by insurers and insurance intermediaries which are not subject to the explicit competence of the Commission; (c) c. 18 the words of the implementing regulatory acts and of the implementing acts are replaced by the words of Regulation 648/2012, of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 and of the implementing acts thereof; (d) c. 19 the words of the implementing acts........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "s 21' are replaced by "s 21', "21', "31' and "32'; (b) New items shall be created. 7? 9: "7." exercise powers of a competent authority under art. Art. 4 (2) Article 10 (1) and (5) 11 paragraphs 6 "10 of Regulation 648/2012 for financial and non-financial counterparties under art. 2, p. 8 and 9 of Regulation 648/2012, which are persons referred to in art. 1, para. 2, p. 3; 8. exercise the powers of a competent authority under Regulation 2015/2365 for counterparties under art. 3, p. 2 of Regulation 2015/2365, which are persons under art. 1, para. 2, p. 3; 9. exercise the powers of a competent authority within the meaning of art. 4 paragraph 8 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products created, distributed or recommended by unemployment insurance companies and/or professional qualifications not granted in the explicit competence of the committee; (c) c. 11 the final addition is made to Regulation 648/2012, to Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, to Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 and to the implementing acts of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365; (d) a new item shall be created. 14: It's 14 years old. issue criminal decrees imposing fines and property penalties for infringements of Regulation 648/2012, Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 and their implementing regulations; 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 shall be added at the end, including the communication channels for acceptance of complaints and complaints. (bb) point 2 is repealed; (c) c. 3 the words shall be submitted by means of the alert and shall be replaced by the complaint or the alert. (b) the creation of para. 6... The complaint or alert shall be lodged under para. 3 may not be grounds for seeking liability in respect of the person making the complaint or the alert for disclosure of confidential or other information protected by a law or contract. (7) The lodging of a complaint or alert shall not be grounds for the adverse or unfair treatment of employees of the supervised entity concerned when they have lodged complaints or complaints of infringements in the supervised entity. (8) Persons working on a work relationship in supervised bodies of the Commission, who have lodged a complaint or an alert under para. 3 shall be entitled to protection against disciplinary dismissal in accordance with Article 3. 187, para. 2 of the Labour Code. (9) The procedures for the exchange of information and cooperation between the public authorities involved in the protection of the persons under para. 8, complaints or complaints shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 1 and 6 after the words "Regulation (EU) Butcher', the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are inserted; (b) in para. 3 after the words "Regulation (EU) Butcher', the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014' are inserted. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 1 the words "or Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, Regulation (EU) No'. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 10 words.............................................................................. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 the multilateral trading systems, organised trading systems and growth markets are added at the end; b) To be created t. 17 Seventeen. tied agents; 18. data reporting services providers; 19. administrators of benchmarks licensed or registered by the Commission pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/1011; 20. persons who have recognised competence as a responsible actuary. 12. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1: (a) in Section I: (aa) II: (aaa) in the text before the table after the words (bbb) in rows 2, 3 and 4 of the table, the words "art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 10. The words................................................................................................ 5, para. 2, p. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in (c) in row 5 of the table, after the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (dd) of row 6 and 7 of the table, the words "art." 5, para. 2, p. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. the following points are inserted after (edd) of row 8 of the table the words "art." 11, para. 2 and 5 and 5 shall be replaced (fe) in row 12 of the table, after the words (jjg) of row 16 of the table, the words "for authorisation under art. 53, para. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 4 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 is amended as follows: (zzz) of row 17 of the table, the words "c'. 7, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 9, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 and (i) of row 18 of the table, the words "Art. 24d, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 11, para. 3, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 14, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (kk) of row 19 of the table, the words "c'. 24d, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 11, para. the following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Regulation (bl) in row 20 of the table, the words "for authorisation under art. 98, para. 3 FIFAs shall be replaced by the words for approval under art. 9 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 (mm) of row 21 of the table, the words "for authorisation under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 FIFAs shall be replaced by the words for approval under art. 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 (n) of row 22 of the table, the words for approval of the rules of art. 53, para. 4 FIFAs shall be replaced by the words... for approval under art. 7 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014; Oooh) of row 23 of the table the words "Art. 57, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 112, para. the following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Regulation (EC) No 65/2004): (ppm) in row 24, the words "Art. 101, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 188, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (bb) in item V of row 28 of the table, at the end of the table, the national investment fund is added; (b) in Section II: (aa) I: (aaa) in row 4 of the table, the words "art." This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 10. The words................................................................................................ 5, para. 2, p. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous (bbb) in rows 5 and 6 of the table, the words "art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The words "other than the activities referred to in Article 10" and the words "other than the activities referred to in Article 10" shall be inserted after the words "other than the activities of art. 5, para. 2, p. 8 SIFFs' are deleted; (cc) of row 7 of the table, the words "Art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 10. The words................................................................................................ 5, para. 2, p. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years (dd) of row 8 of the table, the words "art." This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The words "other than the activities referred to in Article 10" and the words "other than the activities referred to in Article 10" shall be inserted after the words "other than the activities of art. 5, para. 2, p. 8 SIFFs' are deleted; (edd) of row 9 of the table, the words "art." 8, para. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10, para. 3 and 5 and the words... except for the activity under art. 5, para. 2, p. the following points are inserted after point (a) (fe) of row 10 of the table the words. 7, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 9, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of (jjj) row 11 of the table after the words (zzzz) in row 28 of the table, the words "from a bank or an investment firm" included in the list of depositories "to be replaced by a Depository "bank or investment firm"; (bb) in point III, the words "Art. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: the (c) in Section IV, point XI is inserted: "XI." The amount of the fee for carrying out a general financial supervision of a person who is written off by the relevant public register under art. 30 shall be calculated in proportion to the time during the year in which the person has the quality of a supervised entity and the days of the year shall be counted as 360. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, where there is a fee paid for carrying out general financial supervision, recovery of part of it shall be made following a request made by the person concerned to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 18, which becomes § 16 in the version proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u227	90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u228	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §19, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 5 words................................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 words.............................................................................. 26 points (b) and (c) are replaced by the following: 79, letter "b" and the words "c." 34, para. 2 "4" shall be replaced by "c." 92 and 93. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 3, p. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 6, para. 3, p. the following point is (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53a words. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 1 the words shall be presented to the committee and shall be replaced by the committee within the same period shall be presented to the committee. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the word "Presents', the words "Instantly' shall be added; (b) in para. 2 shall be added at the end, and must be available until the subsequent update. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64. 1 the words shall be published in the committee and shall be deleted. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 86. 3 is amended For the management company providing services under para. 2 shall apply § 4, para. 3 of the additional provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90, para. The third sentence is created: The management company is obliged to comply with the relevant requirements of Regulation No 575/2013 when determining its own funds. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 35, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 90, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the implementation of the measures against market abuse of financial instruments. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 1 words.............................................................................. The 15. Article 107 is amended as follows: Art. 107. Paragraph 4 shall apply to the management company. 2 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 in the text shall be added at the end in case Their professional activity has a significant impact on the risk profile of the management company collective investment schemes and collective investment schemes; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The remuneration referred to in paragraph 2 shall be calculated in accordance with the following formula: 1 shall not include additional payments or benefits which are part of a general non-discretionary policy which applies to the entire management company and which do not encourage the taking of risks. (c) the current para. 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5; (d) a new para shall be created. 6: The management company may not apply the requirements of para. 3, p. 11? 13 for the persons under para. 1 if the total annual variable remuneration of the person concerned does not exceed 30 per cent of his total permanent remuneration and does not exceed 30 000 BGN (e) the current para. 5 and 6 become respectively. 7 and 8; (f) The creation of para. 9. For the purposes of this Article, permanent remuneration shall be all payments or other benefits which are determined in advance and do not depend on the result obtained. For the purposes of this Article, variable remuneration shall be all additional payments or other benefits to be determined and paid depending on the result obtained or other contractual terms and conditions. (g) the current para. 7 and 8 become respectively. 10 and 11. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108a, para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para. 3 words.............................................................................. The following points are 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177, para. 1, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. 2 the 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. The third sentence is amended as follows: 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204, para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 35, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 90, para. The following shall be added after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014' and after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014'. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205, para. 1 words.............................................................................. The 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212, para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 35, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 90, para. The following shall be added after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014' and after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014': Regulation (EU) 2017/265. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222, para. 4 sentence first the words "substitute-" The Chair shall be replaced by the Committee. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 26 "D' is replaced by "T'. Art. 53, Art. 57, Art. 59, the words. 26b, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 4, para. Art. 2, Art. 24, para. 1 suppl. 3, 7 and 8, art. 27, para. Article 7 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 28, 29, art. 32, para. Art. 6 and art. 33 and 34 and are replaced by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5, para. Art. 4, Art. 65, para. 1, 2, 4 and 5, Art. Art. 71, Art. Art. 72, Art. Art. 73, Art. Art. 76, Art. Art. 78, Art. Art. 79, Art. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 233, para. 1, t. 2 all over the words. 34, para. 3, p. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 234 words everywhere. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235, para. 1, t. 5 words................................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246 words. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 words.............................................................................. 118, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 276, para. the (b) A new para shall be created. 5. The enforcement administrative measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, t. 1 and 3 may also apply to persons operating without authorisation or authorisation which are required under this law. (c) the current para. 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7; (d) Paragraph 1 shall be created. 8. Where he finds that supervised entities, their employees, persons who under contract perform management functions, have carried out or operate in breach of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 or its implementing acts, the Committee on a proposal from the Vice-President may apply the measures under art. Article 22 (4) (b) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 37. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 264a: Art. 264a. (1) Where it finds that supervised entities, their employees, persons who perform management functions under a contract have carried out or are operating in breach of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on basic information documents on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products (BIDSI) (OB, L 352/1 of 9 December 2014) (Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014) or of its implementing acts, the Committee on a proposal from the Vice-President may apply the measures referred to in Article. 24, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014. (2) When determining the type of forced measure under para. 1 The Commission shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation No 1286/2014. (3) When the Commission has applied the measures under para. 1 or The Vice-President has imposed an administrative penalty under art. 273b, the committee, the Vice-President respectively, may require the person to whom the forced administrative measure has been applied or to whom the administrative penalty has been imposed to send a message to the investor, providing him with information on the forced administrative measure or punishment and informing him where he may lodge a complaint or claim for compensation. (4) Articles 265 " 267" shall apply accordingly. 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 273, para. 1, t. 10 after the words................................................................................................ 102, para. Articles 1 and 2 (b) and (c) are replaced by the following: This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all 39. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 273b: Art. 273b. (1) A person exercising a leading position in an investment company, in a management company or in a person managing an alternative investment fund who has committed or has committed a violation of art. Art. 5, par. 1, art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 7, Art. Article 8, paragraphs 1-3, Art. Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, par. 1, art. Art. 13 (1), (3) and (4) Article 14 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 is punishable by a fine from 2500 to 1,400 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 5000 to 2,800 000 BGN. (2) A person exercising a leading position in an investment company, in a management company or in a person managing an alternative investment fund who has committed or has committed a breach of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, other than those under para. 1, or an act of its application, shall be punished with a fine of BGN 1500. up to 700,000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 1 400 000 BGN. (3) Investment company, management company or person managing an alternative investment fund which has committed or has committed a violation of art. Art. 5, par. 1, art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 7, Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, par. 1, art. Art. 13 (1), (3) and (4) 14 and 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 is punishable by a penalty of 20 000 BGN. up to 10 000 000 leva, and in case of repeated infringement from 40,000 to 20 000 000 leva. (4) An investment company, a management company or an alternative investment fund manager which has committed or has committed a breach of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014, outside the cases under para. 3, or an act of its application, is punishable by a penalty of 10 000 to 5 000 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. (5) In determining the administrative penalty, the Vice-President shall take into account the circumstances under art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 40. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 274, para. 1 after the words. 273 "The Commission's decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure 41. In Article 4 (1) (b), point 1.Alinea 1 is amended as follows: The Commission and the Vice-President shall publish on the Commission's website any measure implemented and imposed penalty for breach of the provisions of that law and its implementing acts after notification of them to the person. The information to be disclosed shall include at least data on the infringement, the intruder, the measure applied or the penalty imposed, whether it is contested, the instance to which it is appealed and the outcome of the appeal. 2.Alinea 2 is canceled. 42. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) c. 20 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing b) c. 24 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after (c) c. 25 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure (d) c. 35 (a.k.a. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in (e) c. 38 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u229	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 19, which shall become § 17 of the Commission's report. Vote 69 MPs: 68, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u230	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, which shall become respectively 18 to 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u231	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 20 to 24 which become respectively paragraphs 18 to 22 on the new numbering. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u232	Under § 25, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... The Law implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1.In Art. 1. 3: a) the current text becomes para. 1; (b) Paragraph 3 shall be created. 2: The Financial Supervision Commission shall adopt a regulation on the factors that persons receiving market surveys must take into account when they are disclosed information in a market study in order to assess whether the information is inside information, on the measures that those persons must take into account if inside information is disclosed to them in order to comply with art. 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 and the registers to be kept by those persons in connection with the implementation of art. 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 2.In art. 4, para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 after the words supplied a message for violation is added "or against which a notice of infringement has been filed." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the words "Article 18, 19 or 20 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014' are replaced by "Article 4 (1) '. Art. 11, art. Art. 18, Art. Art. 19 or art. 20 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 or of the implementing acts of art. Art. 4, Art. Art. 11, art. Art. 18, Art. Art. 19 or art. 20 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (bb) c. 2 the words "Article 16 or 17 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014" shall be inserted after the words "Article 16 or 17 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014" and shall be added to the implementing acts of art. 16 or 17 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (c) The creation of a t. 4. "4." the order under art. 3, para. 2, shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 250 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 1000 to 500 000 BGN, if the act does not constitute a crime. (b) in para. 2: (aa) c. 2 words up to BGN 5 000 000 are replaced by the sum between BGN 5 000 000 000. and 2 per cent of the person's annual turnover according to his latest report approved by the authority responsible; (bb) c. 3 words up to BGN 30 000 000 shall be replaced by the sum of BGN 30 000 000. and 15 per cent of the person's annual turnover according to his latest report approved by the authority responsible; (c) The creation of a t. 4. "4." for infringements under para. 1, t. 4 from 500 to 1 000 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 2000 to 1 000 000 BGN; (c) the creation of para. 9. Where the person is a parent company or a subsidiary, the relevant annual turnover under para. 2, p. 2 and 3 is the total annual turnover of the consolidated accounts of the final parent undertaking for the previous year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u233	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 25, which shall become § 23 of the Commission's report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u234	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u235	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 26, which shall become § 24. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u236	Under § 27, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. (a) the text prior to point (b) the Bulgarian National Bank, related to the National Bank, is added at the beginning of the year; (c) the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission, related to the (d) the Bulgarian National Bank, related to the National Bank, is added at the beginning of the year. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1, t. 5 shall be added at the end, except where the contract is concluded under general terms or regulation determines its mandatory content. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1, t. 6 the words supposed administrative measure under art. 404 of the Labour Code Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 26 and 27: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) In the award of public contracts, the conclusion of framework agreements and the conduct of competitions for projects for which a decision to initiate a procedure has been taken after the entry into force of this law, an advert under art. 187, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act or an invitation has been sent under art. 191 of the Public Procurement Act, suspension under art. 54, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act for infringements under art. 61, para. Art. 1, art. 62, para. Art. 1 or 3, Art. 63, para. Art. 1 or 2 and art. 228, para. 3 of the Labour Code shall apply only where infringements have been committed after its entry into force. (2) In the award of public contracts, the conclusion of framework agreements and the conduct of competitions for projects for which a decision to initiate a procedure has been taken until the entry into force of this law, an advert under art. 187, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act or an invitation has been sent under art. 191 of the Public Procurement Act, suspension under art. 54, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act for infringements under art. 61, para. Art. 1, art. 62, para. Art. 1 or 3, Art. 63, para. Art. 1 or 2 and art. 228, para. 3 of the Labour Code shall not apply to infringements committed until its entry into force unless the instrument of exclusion has entered into force. § 27. The award of public contracts, the conclusion of framework agreements and the conduct of competitions for projects for which a decision to initiate a procedure has been taken until the entry into force of this law, an advert under art. 187, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act or an invitation has been sent under art. 191 of the Public Procurement Act, except for the cases under § 26, shall be completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u237	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 27, which shall become § 25 in the report of the Commission, and the created two new paragraphs............................................................................................. Please vote. They voted 88 MPs: 88, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u238	Madam President, I request an editorial amendment: § 26, para. 1 after the words a call has been sent to add: 82, para. 4 t. One and a half. In para. 2 after the words a call has been sent to add to the article. 82, para. 4 t. One and a half. Another editorial amendment in § 26, para. 2 after the words.. where the act of the contracting authority is replaced by the statement of removal....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u239	Anyone who agrees with the three editorial amendments made to the newly created § 26 and § 27, please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u240	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 28. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 para. 2 is amended as The Bulgarian National Bank is a competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria for the exercise of: 1. supervision of banks within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 40 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 176/1 of 27 June 2013)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'; 2. the powers under art. Article 4 (2) and Article 4 (2) 11 paragraphs 6, 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2, p. 8 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, which are banks. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2, p. Art. 9, Art. 14, para. Art. 2, Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 2 and Art. 2 103, para. 8 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 6, para. Two and three. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 21a: Art. 21a. (1) A bank authorised in a Member State may carry out the activities under art. 2, para. 2, p. 9 under the terms of art. 20, para. 1 and through a tied agent based in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The bank may start operating through a tied agent after receiving a notification from the BNB or if it does not receive such notification within two months of receipt of the notification by the competent authority of the sending State. (3) When the bank operates through a branch and through a tied agent based in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the tied agent shall be considered part of the branch. Only through a tied agent with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, the requirements of the branch law apply to him. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2 and 3: In cases where the bank under para. 1 will carry out activity under art. 2, para. 2, p. 9 by tied agents whose registered office is in the Sending State, BNB shall publish the data received from the competent authority of the Sending State for these tied agents. (3) The bank under para. 1 may provide remote access to a multilateral trading system or an organised trading system for members or participants with headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this case, the BNB may request information from the competent authority of the sending State concerning the members or participants in the multilateral trading system of which it is located in the Republic of Bulgaria. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 10 and 11: A bank licensed in the Republic of Bulgaria may carry out the activities under art. 2, para. 2, p. 9 under the conditions of para. 1 and by a tied agent with its registered office in another Member State. The Bank shall inform the BNB in writing of its intention to use a tied agent in another Member State. The notification shall contain the following information: 1. the Member State in which it intends to operate through tied agents having its registered office in that country; 2. an activity plan including a description of the services and/or activities under art. 6, para. 2 and 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act which it intends to carry out; 3. data on tied agents when a branch is established that will operate through tied agents; 4. where the bank will operate through tied agents in a country where there is no branch opened, a description of the activity that the tied agents will carry out and an organisational structure, including the responsibilities of the tied reporting agents and their place within the corporate structure of the bank shall be provided; 5. the address for correspondence in the host country; 6. persons entrusted with the management of tied agents. (11) Unless it considers that the planned activity in the territory of another Member State is consistent with the organisational structure or financial situation of the bank, BNB shall, within three months of receipt of the notification and all information under para. 10 send to the competent authorities of the host country the information received and inform the applicant bank accordingly. Alinei 3 and 5-9 shall apply respectively. (b) the current para. 10 becomes para. 12; c) the current para. 11 becomes para. 13 and in it the words by para. 10................................................................................... replaced by........................................................................................... 12ss and 12s; (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 14 and 15: When the bank under para. 2 intends to carry out the activities under art. 2, para. 2, p. 9 by tied agents, the notification shall also indicate data on tied agents. In cases where the tied agents through which the bank will operate are located in the Republic of Bulgaria, the BNB shall, within one month of receipt of the notification, forward to the competent authorities of the host country data on the tied agents. Alinea 9 is administered accordingly. (15) When the bank under para. 12 intends to grant remote access to a multilateral trading system organised by it or an organised trading system for members or participants having its registered office in the territory of another Member State, it shall inform the BNB in advance of the Member State where it intends to carry out that activity. The Bulgarian National Bank shall provide the information referred to in the first sentence to the relevant competent authority of the host State within one month of receipt of the information and, upon request, provide information on the members or participants of the organised multilateral trading system whose registered office is in the host Member State.'; 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79c, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' is commaed and added "Regulation (EU) No 648/2012'. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103, para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/2365'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u241	Just a second, Mrs. Angelova, I think. 7, must be al. 12. Is that how you wrote it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u242	Point 7 (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 7 (1) of Directive
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u243	Because I heard it was one thing. Maybe I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u244	Yes, I'm sorry. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 103, para. 12 is added...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u245	Point 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u246	Point 8: It's 8 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152, para. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' shall be added to Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, Regulation (EU) 2015/2365."; 9. In § 1, para. 1: (a) c. 6b (c)'(c) 5, para. 2, p. 6' are replaced by............................................................................................... 6, para. 2, p. 6'; (b) c. 6d: (aa) in the text before the letter "s', the words. 7' are replaced by 8'; (bb) in the letter "Art. 5, para. 2, p. 4' are replaced by............................................................................................... 6, para. 2, p. 4'. PRESENT COLOR KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u247	Madam President, please accept the following correction remarks: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2, we're going back to t. Art. 2, Art. 2, para. 2, p. 9 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 6, para. Two and three. A t is created. 2a, namely: It's 2a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 6, para. Two The following point shall be inserted after point (b) (i) (i) ? 2b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, the words "art." 5, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 6, para. Two and three. Point 7 to obtain the following version, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 103 the following amendments and additions are made: The following point shall be inserted: .) in para. 8 words.............................................................................. 5, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 6, para. Two and three. The following point (b) is inserted: (b) in para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the transparency of securities financing transactions and the re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 337/1 of 2 December 2015.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/2365'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u249	Yeah, it splits into two technical...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u250	Yeah, technical editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u251	Madam President, in all these cases, for the clarity of this House, we are talking about the wrong references that have been established at the last minute and we are now fixing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u252	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 28, the version of Paragraph 29 of the Commission Report and the text of the Report with the amendments made by Mrs Stoyanova, which have just been made. Vote 95 MPs: 85, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u253	Under paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34. The Commission proposes that § 35 be rejected, as the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property has been repealed by the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u254	So far, Mrs. Angelova. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 supported by the Commission and the rejection of § 35. Vote 91 MPs: 90 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u255	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become 35, and for § 37, which shall become § 36. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, Hasan Ademov and Svetlana Naydenova: The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Commercial Law (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 2, 3 and 4: The entry shall be made after presentation by the alien of a statement on a template that there are no required and outstanding obligations under art. 15, para. 4. The Registry Agency shall notify the declaration submitted without delay the Executive Agency of the main labour inspection'. The procedure for the notification shall be laid down jointly by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Master Labour Inspection' and the Executive Director of the Registry Agency. (3) The Executive Agency shall, on an alert or on its own initiative, carry out a verification of the authenticity of the facts declared in accordance with a procedure laid down by the Executive Director. In the event of a finding of non-compliance between the declared and the established facts, the Executive Agency shall send the results of the verification to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office. (4) The image of the declaration under para. 2 is confirmed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy."; (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 2 is finally added after presentation by the manager of the company and by the predecessor of a statement on a model that there are no required and outstanding liabilities under para. 1" and the second sentence is created:.......................................................................................... 2 to 4 shall apply accordingly.'; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 the words "up to 6 months before the entry of the judgment for opening insolvency proceedings in the Commercial Register' are deleted; 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 789, para. 1, t. 2 the words "up to 6 months" shall be replaced by "appeared." Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova....
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u256	Wait until we vote, so there won't be any confusion. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission § 36, which shall become § 35, § 37, which shall become § 36, and a new § 38, which shall become § 37, with the wording of that paragraph in the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u257	Madam President, I ask for a procedure to extend the time to completion, vote and adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u258	Please vote on the procedure so made. 90 MPs voted: 83, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u259	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the word "three' is replaced by "five'. 2. Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) The President and the members of the Council shall receive a monthly remuneration of not more than three monthly salaries of employees by employment and service in the public sector according to data from the National Statistical Institute. (2) Monthly remuneration under para. 1 shall be calculated and paid from the budget of the National Assembly. In calculating remuneration, account should also be taken of their participation in Council meetings, with no more than three minimum salaries being paid for a meeting. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 39 and § 40: .............................................................................. In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) in Annex 4 to art. 26, Section I, p. 5 letter "e" the words "c." 3' are replaced by............................................................................................... 4'. § 40. In the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems (prom., SG No.) Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 point (b) shall be replaced by Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU.'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 34 words. 3' are replaced Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 41: ............................................................................. (1) To workers and employees who have been in employment with an employer under art. 2 of the Law on the guaranteed claims of employees in the event of insolvency of the employer and their relationship has been terminated within a period of three months before the date of entry into the commercial register of the decision under art. 6 of the same law shall be guaranteed under the conditions and up to the amount of art. 22 of the same Law only claims which were accrued but not paid for periods after 31 January 2015. (2) Guaranteed claims shall be granted on the basis of an application form declaration submitted by the worker or employee to the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute at the employer's seat within three months of the entry into force of this law. (3) Guaranteed claims under para. 1 shall also be granted if the application has been lodged within the period from 22 December 2017 until the entry into force of that law.';
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. There's a statement for Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u261	Honourable Members, two minutes I would like to make a statement under § 41. Paragraph 41 is, in essence, a transitional provision which aims to arrange for a certain circle of welded relations under the conditions laid down therein. The current provision of art. 4 of the Law on guaranteeing claims of workers and employees in insolvency of the employer guarantees the claims of all workers and employees who are or have been in employment with the employer under art. 2 of the Law, without specifying any other criteria to be met by the worker in order for his right to a guaranteed claim to arise. In Article 4, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 The legislator has laid down as a condition for the existence of that right one criterion in relation to the employer, namely that it carried out an activity at least 12 months before the date of initial insolvency, respectively the overindebtion indicated in the decision to open the insolvency proceedings. For exercising the right of the worker and the employee of a guaranteed claim under art. 25 of the Law provides for the submission of an application for a declaration on a template within three months of the date of entry of the decision to open insolvency proceedings. Until the entry into force on 22 December 2017 of the amendment of the provision of art. 4 a right of guaranteed claims from the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims had all workers and employees who were or were in employment with the employer under art. 2 of the Law, but also which met the following criteria: First, their employment relationship was not terminated on the date of entry into the Commercial Register of the decision to open insolvency proceedings or their employment relationship was terminated in the last three months prior to the date of entry into the Commercial Register of the decision to open insolvency proceedings. In addition to these two criteria with regard to the employee or employee, another criterion has been laid down and it is with regard to the employer, namely that he has been operating for at least 12 months before the start date of insolvency. § 41, which we now propose to vote on, aims to guarantee the claims of all those workers or employees who, until 22 December 2017, were not entitled to guaranteed claims from the Fund to guarantee claims of workers and employees, namely those whose employment relationship was terminated within a period of more than three months before the date of entry into the Commercial Register of the decision to open insolvency proceedings. These are all those cases which were outside the scope of the Law, operating until 22 December 2017. The aim is to enable more workers and employees to benefit from the right of guaranteed claims, and therefore it is not required to have the second condition of art. 4, para. 2 of the Law, namely that the employer was active at least 12 months before the start date of insolvency, respectively overindebted. However, in order to be limited in time back, the circle of persons who are entitled to apply for a model declaration within three months of the entry into force of this law will apply to all accrued but outstanding claims after 31 January 2015, namely within a three-year period. All entitled persons under this transitional provision will be entitled to receive guaranteed claims under the conditions and up to the amount of art. 22 of the law in force. It is also envisaged that under the above conditions guaranteed claims will also be granted to workers and employees who have applied for it from 22 December 2017 until the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u262	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the newly established paragraphs 38, 39, 40 and 41 which the Commission supports. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u263	Madam President, before I report to you and put the last § 42 to the vote, namely the entry into force of this Law, we need to make a return to several texts voted because deficiencies have been identified. The first thing I propose is to make a change in art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 4 where the words "Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property" should be replaced by "Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u264	I put to the vote the change made by Mrs. Stoyanova in art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 4, respectively the text read by her. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Now let's vote on the whole article. 91, along with the editorial amendment. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u265	Madam President, my next suggestion is to get back to art. 135, where the title is omitted, namely the transfer of an investment firm, as is the name of the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u266	We vote on the title of art. 135. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u267	The same is the problem in art. 186, where the title is missed. Please vote on the title of art. One hundred and twenty-six, and one hundred and twenty-six.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u268	We vote on the title of art. 186. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u269	Finally, Madam President, p. 166, not voted on by the House, the name of Part Three is omitted, the title of Title 1
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u270	I put to the vote the name of Part Three, Title 1 and Chapter twenty-two which have been omitted to be voted on. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u271	Now, Madam President, we have reached the last paragraph. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 42: .............................................................................. This law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. Article 222, para. 1-3, which shall enter into force from 3 September 2019; 2 para. 13, p. Article 12 (a) and (b) shall apply from 1 January 2018 and shall apply from 1 January 2018. 3 para. 13, p. Point (b) of Article 12, which shall enter into force on 21 November 2017; 4th paragraph 17, p. 37 concerning Art. 264a and so on. 39 concerning Art. 273b, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u272	I don't see any speeches. Please vote for the support newly created by the Commission § 42. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u273	I thank my colleagues for the adoption of the Law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-01.u274	Thank you. Communications of parliamentary control on 2 February 2018, Friday. Questions and Questions Answered: First will be Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. He will answer a question from the MPs Kolyo Milev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavcho Velkov and Tasco Ermenkov. Debate on asking from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. Questions and Questions Answered: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Kolyo Milev and Georgi Mihailov, and one question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova, Ilian Timchev, Vessela Lecheva, Valentin Lambev and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Georgi Gokov; and Georgi Mihailov, and one question from the MP Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer one question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer a question from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Christian Mitev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions from the MPs Hristo Prodanov; and Dimitar Danchev and Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to four questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev; Stanislav Vladimirov; Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov; and Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not be able to participate in the meeting because of his commitment to the scheduled meeting, included in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. Tomorrow's regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
