ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u1	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We start with the seventh point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS ON PERSONAL CHANGES IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! I propose that point seven, namely point one of today's plenary session. "Personal changes to the Council of Ministers" be directly broadcast on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u3	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Philip Popov. They voted 193 MPs: 92 against 8, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u4	Mr. President, honourable Members, this is an extremely important point for the future of the state. Personal changes are being made to the Council of Ministers. It is right for the Bulgarian public to be aware of the motives and debates, and also of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u5	Mr. Popov, the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u6	Because some colleagues failed to vote, so I am doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u7	Okay, thank you. It's a re-vote. Please vote. Vote 196 MPs: 87, Against 34, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the point. I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, proposed as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Mladen Marinov, proposed as Minister of Interior. Please, voting mode. Vote 195 MPs: 190 against 2, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev to present the candidates and the drafts for a decision. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Let me first introduce you to the three solutions projects, then make a brief presentation to the candidates. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017 and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017. HAS DECIDED Releases Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He elected Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Next decision: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017 and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017. HAS DECIDED He released Nikolay Nankov as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He elected Petya Tsvetanova Avramova as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. And the final decision: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017 and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017. HAS DECIDED He released Valentin Ivanov Radev as Minister of Interior. He elected Mladen Naydenov Marinov as Minister of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In connection with the resignation and the respective constitutional procedure on behalf of the Prime Minister, I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Moskovski and for the election of Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov for Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Zhelyazkov is a Master of Law from Sofia University. Between 1994 and 1995 he was a consecutive legal consultant, senior legal consultant, and later a secretary, mayor's deputy in the region of Sofia Municipality. Since 1995 he is a lawyer in civil and commercial law, he is a member of the Sofia Bar Association. He was Deputy Mayor in the Department of Employment and Control of the Region of Lozenets and Sofia Municipality between 1998 and 1999. From 2003 to 2009 he was Secretary of Sofia Municipality. Between 2011 and 2013 he was Chairman of the Management Board of the Institute of Public Administration and a representative of the Republic of Bulgaria at the European Institute of Public Administration in Maastricht, the Kingdom of the Netherlands. From 2009 to 2013 he was Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers and in the period 2014 - 2016 he was Advisor to the Prime Minister for State Administration and Electronic Governance. Manages, participates in the processes of elaboration of a number of conceptual and strategic documents and programs in the fields of It represents the Bulgarian country in the annual meetings under the Partnership and Open Governance initiative. Coordinates the Bulgarian contribution to the initiatives related to European policies and implementation of the European programme for global environmental and security monitoring. Involved in strategic planning and development of policies in the field of public administration and e-government. As of 30 September 2016, by decision of the Council of Ministers he was appointed President of the State Agency of Electronic Governance. As of 20 December 2017, he was appointed President of the Communications Regulation Commission and the decision entered into force on 15 January 2018. On the basis of the above and the fact that in the years Mr. Zhelyazkov has established himself as an expert supervisor, I propose to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for the election of Mr. Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Regional Development Minister Nikolay Nankov resigned to the Prime Minister and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and the respective constitutional procedure on behalf of the Prime Minister, I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Regional Development Nikolay Nankov and for the election of Mrs. Petya Avramova as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The career of engineer Petya Avramova is entirely related to regional development. From 2009 to 2011 he was Deputy Mayor of the Municipality of Vratsa. He was Chairman of the Vratsa Municipal Council from 2011 to 2013. He became a member for the first time in the Forty-second National Assembly, being a member of a number of permanent committees, including energy, religion, parliamentary ethics, as well as the Investment Design Committee. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision for the election of Ms. Petya Avramova as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Interior Minister Valentin Radev resigned to the Prime Minister and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned resignation, I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Interior and for the election of Mladen Marinov as Minister of Interior. Mladen Marinov graduated from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior in 1991. In 1997 he received a Master's degree from the Supreme Institute for Training Officers and Research at the Ministry of Interior. In 2005 he graduated in the specialty of Law at the Faculty of Law of UNWE. He has been working at the Ministry of Interior since 1991. In 1997 he was appointed to an officer's post in the Security Police Department at the Sofia Directorate of Interior. As of June 2013, he served as Deputy Director of the SDVR, and a year later he served as Director. As of 9 May 2017, he was appointed Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision for the election of Mladen Naydenov Marinov as Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on this point. You have the floor to speak. Procedure. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, the procedure of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is to first hear what the policy of the new candidates for ministers in the respective portfolios will be. We want an analysis of the state of the Ministry of Interior, the Transport Ministry, the Regional Ministry, and what their first actions will be in every field. Declarations that they will implement GERB's program are not enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u11	Dear Mr. Stoinev, your procedure must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u12	My request, Mr. Chairman, according to the regulations and in view of the public expectations and tensions that exist in this Chamber, is precisely the first...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u13	What kind of pressure is there, Drago? [[Happy tidings in GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u14	...the ministers explain what they will do, that they are not just pawns that replace people with others to avoid or end the political crisis, but that they are real politicians who know what they are inheriting and what actions they will take...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u15	We understand you, Mr. Stoinev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u16	...in the corresponding portfolios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u17	Your proposal relates to the debate on the point. You have the floor to speak. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They'll be given the word when they decide. Now you have the floor to speak. [[Replys from "BSP" for Bulgaria "There was a procedure"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u18	Now, Mr. Chairman, I want you to conduct yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u19	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u20	In the manner of conduct, Mr President, as you must invite the respective candidates for ministers to make their views known. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says that the Bulgarian state is a parliamentary republic and they should first be reported in parliament and not in party plants. Isn't that right? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] So my request is that you invite them, and if they are willing, let them go out on the stand and explain what their first actions will be in the corresponding portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u21	Drago, wait till we pick them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u22	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. The rules don't oblige me to do that. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor.]] You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u23	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u24	I'll give you my word, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. President, I ask you to adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure, not to allow any improvisations in the form of procedures. Here I will point out the following: The rules are clear and clear in relation to the debates. It is obvious that the candidates are invited to answer questions. I propose that it be started, as has been established and established in the Rules, with debates, respectively, with questioning and according to the assessment and debate, that candidates be able to take part in this debate. You can't, there's no reason, there's no way you can require a pre-presentation of concepts. We are not in the public selection procedure, which is under the Rules of Procedure, nor are we in the questioning procedure of candidates for the results achieved so far. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u27	Dear Mr. President, I ask you very much to show some respect for both the old ministers and the new ones who are coming, because these are the people who will bear the responsibility in this country. The rest is a speech room. As for what Mr. Stoynev said, last time I read to him I read what I'd done in seven years and he told me I was bragging. That's what they're gonna do, Mr. Stoinev, they're gonna be constructive! Only I was going to ask you people like you: Can you make such a report?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u28	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u29	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. We are continuing with the speeches of our fellow Members, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u31	Was that a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u32	Colleagues, if you don't... You have the floor. I was just getting ready to interrupt the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u33	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Nearly a year and a half ago, the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs came to power with one full of thunderous promises, but emptied of content advocacy program. The security sector is one of the elements of this programme, which is reflected in ongoing systematic and unsuccessful attempts to reform the Ministry of Interior, which showed a lack of government attitude towards the country's security not only by the political leadership of the Ministry in this period, but also by all who support such an approach, namely the ruling coalition in the 44th National Assembly, dominated by the Political Party GERB. This leads to immeasurable negative consequences, unfortunately, mainly increases the mistrust of citizens in the fact that the Ministry of Interior as an institution has the capacity to guarantee their security. Just three months ago, here in this Chamber, a vote of no confidence was voted for the failure of the government in the field of security, a vote which will be remembered by the deafening silence of the government in an attempt to cover the failures in the sector. One vote that was marked by scandalous cases of serious criminal crimes. Murders, abductions, escapes of prisoners, growing crime. And death on the roads, which has been crowned recently with the death of 17 people, sadly, a tragedy, one of the reasons for the resignation of today's ministers! For the final once again 40 passengers passed the Bulgarian border at Sofia airport, and from where from Lebanon! Isn't that where the bombers at Burgas Airport were from? Well, isn't today's resignation proof of the success of this vote? It is not acceptable for Prime Minister Borisov to transfer responsibilities between different departments for the destruction of the Ministry because the Ministry of Interior is his personal responsibility as a portfolio and the ministry itself is headed by a minister broadcast by the Political Party GERB. Just to recall the political program of GERB from the last elections, where it was promised to fill the state of investigative police officers with 2,000 units and provide another 6,000 police officers to carry out their investigative activities, as well as presence in every locality of a uniformed police officer, and in fact it turned out that the Ministry's employees had broken shoes and bought their uniforms to go to guard the Bulgarian border! Alas, nothing like that! It's just that after nearly 140 years of existence, the Ministry of Interior is about to become an empty institution of content and functions performing only political orders, unfortunately. The Ministry is the heart of the Bulgarian statehood. The institution, which is called under the Constitution to guarantee democracy, to protect the lives, public order and the privacy of the property of Bulgarian citizens, to ensure compliance with the law and to protect the power of the state of Bulgaria! The rulers often forget the foundations on which the Ministry of Interior is built. In some cases, this borders on pointless, unimaginable as political selfishness and shortsightedness, and dangerous actions as consequences. This composition of the government between GERB and the United Patriarchs and the first ones who allowed themselves to disband the Ministry of Interior, to offer it in a piece of privates, to trade with the most valuable of Bulgarian citizens the security of their lives, health and property. By adopting the Private Security Act, they have created some of the most dangerous precedents in modern legislation. This really gives away the sphere, which is the Holy of Holies of every country. This opened the door to returning well-known security guards from the first years of transition. This law is an extreme insult to the employees of the Ministry of Interior who work under severe conditions. The genius idea of future Minister Radev with the entry into force of the quoted law was to release most likely the redundant employees and the others to work for the purpose. Instead of facing these problems, the government continues to try to unload the Ministry of Interior from its responsibilities. Just two months ago, MPs from the majority submitted a new Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, which we expect, unfortunately, to soon enter the Chamber to transfer the responsibility for safeguarding public order to municipal councils and mayors who will be able to establish units with pure police functions to pretorian guards to ensure the settlement of elections. The effectiveness of such a measure is questionable. This clearly shows that the majority itself is mistrusting the ability of the Ministry of Interior and its current leadership to ensure the security of citizens. While the efforts of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and its chiefs in the Council of Ministers are aimed at privatizing part of its activities and improving it as a tool for pressure and racketeering, a huge field is released for the development of crime. Unfortunately, this is a heavy statistic that was confirmed last week by the Prosecutor's Office's Annual Report, not by newspaper clippings, as some representatives of the government expressed themselves! The report identifies poverty, depopulation of small settlements, low level of education and, above all, of young people, demographic collapse and poor quality of life as main reasons. No one believes the statistics of the Ministry of Interior anymore. At a meeting of the Internal Commission, the Ministry heartily admitted that crime statistics were deliberately manipulated by the heads of regional governments, unfortunately. All we have spoken so far about the state of crime in Bulgaria is the bitter truth. All of this can lead to a firm conclusion. The management of the Ministry of Interior, and the government itself has obviously abdicated from their commitments and today's resignation is a blatant proof of this! Bulgarian citizens to date do not feel safe! Bulgarian citizens cannot walk the streets in the evening hours this means that they do not feel the support of the state, do not feel the protection of the Ministry of Interior, to which they are entitled under the Constitution. The political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and the government itself suffer failure after failure. To the greatest surprise today, this responsibility is transferred to the Ministry's professional leadership, bringing out the Secretary General as Minister! Who will bear the political responsibility from now on, gentlemen? Because the current political leadership of the Ministry of Interior leaves the new Minister a heavy inheritance and a public procurement for the Ministry of Interior's reengineering! And it is very interesting to hear the opinion of the future minister on this order. So this order says: a private company will decide the fate of the employees! Is this so empty of content and ministry specialists that it can't solve its problems alone?! Perhaps on the next change of ministers here, in this place, will sit the head of the private company who will tell how to manage this ministry! This is a dangerous, terrifying division between the people and their state, a division that is dangerous in perspective and ruining the ties in society that takes away the perspective and energy of the state itself. A minister's resignation won't solve the problem. This is a reflection of the government's overall policy. Honourable Members, the outcome is only one of the resignations of the entire government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Political assessments are clear, however, it is also time for specific answers and commitments so that we do not fall back into the cycle of conversations between the deaf. That's why I want to direct the debate. I am asking a specific question to the candidate for the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov and I hope there is a specific answer. A few days ago, the Bulgarian and international press exploded with headlines that journalists investigating large-scale corruption schemes were arrested, detained by the Bulgarian police. The comments were two types. On the one hand: is it possible to keep journalists doing their jobs in a European country?! And on the other hand: what logic does it make for a citizen to report a crime he committed and be arrested himself?! Every year we listen to reports from the Ministry of Interior. And very often we have heard from here calls, including from the outgoing minister today, the citizens to alert the police, to inform her of what is happening! What signal do we give when these same citizens are arrested?! There were conflicting evaluations following. That evening, it was found that some sort of apology had come to light. It was a matter of bad communication. Okay, but a few hours later, both political and professional grades changed to GERB until they came to the conclusion that journalists were responsible for themselves and that the police had actually done their job perfectly. So my specific question to you, Mr. Marinov, is: what is the assessment of the police's actions in the Radomir case, and what will you do to prevent such bad communications?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u37	We want an answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u38	If Mr. Marinov wants to answer the question, I'll give it to him at the end of the debate. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.)]] I'll give you the floor. Give me a chance to say what I think! My personal assessment is that this is a question of parliamentary control and is in no way related to Mr. Marinov's vision for the development of his ministry. [[Applause from GERB.]] You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, you are really struggling to lead the debate, or you are simply avoiding a debate! The only thing you want is for the opposition to speak out and vote on the new candidates for ministers. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We want policies! Policy debate! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a beauty pageant. Here is the Bulgarian Parliament and we need to debate politics! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u40	Mr. Stoynev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u41	And when the opposition asks questions, the candidates for ministers are obliged to answer! Please, join your duties! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Noise and lines.]] We are continuing the debate. Procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. There is no way for both candidates to respond in parliamentary control, as they are simply not elected ministers. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u44	Obviously!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u45	The MPs are asking questions to form their opinion on how to vote, and the media who are transmitting this meeting to make it clear what positions, what policies they will stand for. What shame is there for ministers candidates, famous people, with good biographies, as we have heard, to stand on this stand and answer questions? Is there something offensive? Is something wrong? Why are you hiding them? One month you searched for them, found them and now you hide them from the Bulgarian society. I don't understand why.! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I have already explained why I will finally give the floor to the candidates for ministers if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u47	It's not up to you! That's up to parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u48	This is by the book, Mr. Svilensky. Excuse me! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Chairman, you are asking me, as the MP, not you, but the whole society, to vote for one person or another as a candidate for a minister. We have the right to get answers to the questions we ask these candidates! In this regard, as we continue to argue that the change of ministers will not lead to anything good, because they are individuals implementing the policy of the government, I have a specific question to the Minister of Transport, to the candidate for the Minister of Transport: will the concession stop at Sofia airport?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u50	If you have a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Prodanov. Please, in the manner of conduct! Then I'll give you the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u51	Yes, in the manner of conduct I have asked you to give the people you offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u52	Thank you. We're done with the way we lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u53	...and I asked a specific question: will the concession of Sofia airport be suspended by the new candidate for minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u54	This has nothing to do with the way we conduct it anymore. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u55	No, on the contrary, this has to do with the policy that's continuing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Guys, I'm gonna explain this to you one more time. Yes, the candidates for ministers will have the floor to answer questions raised after we are done with the debates. Now please express your opinion and let us continue with speeches! You have the floor to speak. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At a time when society needs change, real and effective action and adequate government decisions on people's important problems, we are forced to deal with ministerial resignations for the sole purpose of preserving power, that is, delaying the inevitable or a little more bought time. Powerful incompetence, bureaucratic insanity, political stubbornness, populism in high form are the cost of difficult lives and human sacrifices. Public tensions are growing, and only those who do not want to see it and feel it will disagree with that fact. The public expects government behavior and good governance! That, unfortunately, cannot happen to this government. The three ministerial resignations will suppress the tension. This is also the expectation of the government. No, it's not gonna work! Society has high requirements and expects professionalism and competence. There's no way he'll get that from today's government. The department is populist! The topics are changed, facts are distorted, achievements and victories are constantly insinuated, accusations are made against previous rulers, hatred is insinuated, and so it is sought to prolong the life of this government. With a quote of GERB: The biggest enemy we are ourselves. Yes, GERB is the only one responsible for its own sinking! You have not heard our warnings at the beginning of this National Assembly to form a government and to implement your own political agenda. If this had happened, today we might have the necessary reforms and we would have talked about economic growth and improving the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens. You opposed Bulgarian citizens. You have given power to populism and nationalism. Moreover, you adopted them and turned them into your cause! You declared war on the pros and pushed them out of nocturnal positions, and the leftovers made them passive. You're dealing with society in presenting fictional achievements and victories. You are dealing with all of us with internal coalition problems, problems between individual ministers and departments. You've ignored any rule of state. You have also destroyed the few remaining trust in the institutions and thus caused a crisis of statehood. Perhaps the worst not only in the latest history of Bulgaria! We wanted to discuss concrete measures today to improve the situation in the country. We should have discussed the European issues so important for us, but alas, we have to deal with ministerial resignations, given that they do not solve the problems. We're offered ministerial resignations, but so what? The government misses important things for people, dealing with itself and its own survival. I will not list these vital solutions, but I will tell you the most important thing for Bulgaria and for the people for years to come.................... the preparation of Bulgaria for the Multiannual Financial Framework. On the multi-annual financial framework presented on 2 May this year by the European Commission for the period after 2020 and in mid-June legislative proposals relating to the Financial Framework, important negotiations are ahead, and here it is important to emphasise that the government has a fundamental responsibility in this process in the main directions of the new framework. The new model of a financial framework primarily transfers the decision on the development of member states to the countries themselves. A flexible national, administrative structure must be established to ensure participation in all programmes, use of all instruments and firm participation in the group of rapidly developing countries. What is the potential and what are the intentions of the government? Nobody knows! This model implies that national strategies, platforms, plans in different sectors should be developed by the end of 2019. Some of them are laid down as an explicit requirement in the proposed programmes. What is the government's readiness? Nobody knows! The model requires working cooperation with local authorities, businesses and NGOs, universities and branch organizations. What steps does the government take? Nobody knows! The new model of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the wide range of opportunities open to various priorities and programmes requires a very flexible and innovative approach in planning and management. Is the government ready? Nobody knows! By the way, the government doesn't know! Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Today we had to discuss the answers to these and other important issues that are vital to Bulgarian citizens: how to stop the war on the roads; how to stop aggression; how to improve the lives of Bulgarian citizens; what to do about the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework? Because these negotiations depend on the lives of all of us after 2020. At least to those who have decided to stay in the country and not seek sustenance outside. We will not hear the answers to important questions from this government! We will not wait for the solution of the problems that are important to people from this government! Regardless of the changes to be made, there is a period of growing problems and greater uncertainty. The formula of power is wrong, and if it doesn't change, nothing will change! The early elections are inevitable. Neither ministerial resignations, nor change in the form of government, nor early elections are a decision on their own. We need dialogue, a clear management program, deep reforms and a new type of governance. We need to resuscitate statehood. Divisive nationalism in individual Member States cannot guarantee a stable and united Europe. We must fight the divisive nationalism and adopt the unifying patriotism. Unity in unifying goals can save state and statehood, European and universal human values and guarantee peace and prosperity! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? I won't. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ermenkov, I saw you first, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will talk about the resignation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Before I go to the main reason that led to Mr. Nankov's resignation as a minister, and so that the people do not remain with the belief that only the tragic accident at Svoge has led to this resignation, I will remind you of another failure of the Ministry led by him. This is the failure in the water sector. As a minister, he did everything possible to implement the so-called water associations that led to a drastic and unbearable increase in water prices for the average person. Somehow, however, he forgot the Law regulating the activities of water companies, which had to guarantee the social aspect of this reform, including the interests of so-called water-vulnerable consumers. Actually, that doesn't surprise me! This GERB government has never, in any way, cared for the common man and his survival in our plundered homeland. There's no way a single minister could be socially sensitive in a company like this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now for the roads. A year ago, we from BSP requested the establishment of a Committee on Highways and Corruption Procurement to see who is politically responsible in the sector. Then the government hid, but the problems were even more clear and logically led to the resignation of the minister. Four months ago, we heard from Mr. Nankov about the highways, which are not even highways anymore, are not speed roads, but are ordinary paths, given their quality. Then he animated us with a map, stretched out with future roads and highways from the virtual world, in which he, the government of GERB and the ruling people, and who had nothing to do with real life and when confronted with it, legally led to his resignation. Because if the problems were solved with colorful maps and sweet words from this tribune during parliamentary control, the Bulgarian people would not have led the most bloody war in their history, the war on the roads that each year took hundreds of victims and left thousands of victims behind.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u60	And in your time...?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u61	And Mr. Nankov would have proudly continued to hold the ministerial post. Alas, life is not subject to the illusions and myths of a government that has forgotten its main mission to enhance the welfare of the people who appointed it. I repeat to the people, not to my own and to my court firms. The cruel truth broke the mist of lies about the beautiful roads and highways [[(Shouting "Eee!") and "Woo!" by GERB.]] and showed the creepy reality. Daily victims and victims on poor-cover roads, missing markings, overgrown like a jungle, filled ditches leading to aquaplanning. At all, roads that prove how they should not be built and how they should not be maintained. The resignation of Mr. Nankov is hardly the result of realizing the bitter truth that in Bulgaria highways are being built not to have safer movement, but to absorb billions. And to keep the golden hen from laying its eggs in the pot of the government and their nearby companies, these highways are being built to be subsequently renovated again with new billions to be absorbed again by the nearby ones and thus endlessly. I am sure that the new minister, if elected, will continue with the same disastrous policy. And because life is far from the ancient Greek tragedies and always wants to pay the real price for irresponsibility, inability and greed, Mr. Nankov's resignation is a logical conclusion to a mythology with which you have lied to us for a year and a half. In only one he was right when he resigned, and this was the finding that there was no communication and consistency between the various departments in this government. Yeah, he was right. He's missing. However, this lack of coordination and consistency is not his fault, but his chief is responsible for the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, whose main obligation is precisely to coordinate and coordinate the actions of the ministers of his government. That is why we at BSP consider Mr. Nankov's resignation as an attempt to save the prime minister, who should actually resign not only from his own, but from the entire government as well. And this will happen regardless of all attempts to inspire new life through aimless and perspectiveless changes of ministers. And the sooner this happens, the more chances our homeland has to recover from the ashtray that you have turned it into the last nine years of GERB's rule! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I ask for an increase in the time of our group. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the Parliament! It is unlikely that someone in this room and perhaps outside of it has not heard and has no longer understood that in the system of the Ministry of Transport only in the next few months public resources will be spent for more than two billion leva. In this regard, I would like to ask very briefly the future candidate for a minister, a future minister of transport, because we know the practice of BDZ and the Ministry of Transport, whether BDZ under the leadership of the new minister will start implementing the Public Procurement Act and will award, as is right, public procurement through the law without circumventing it, and can we expect in this regard an adequate change of the management of BDZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to directly ask the candidate for the Minister of Interior: perhaps after hours you will be a political figure "The law of the Ministry of Interior and the structure of the Ministry does not tolerate any vacuum in the professional activity. Dear Mr. Marinov, have you already chosen, have you stopped at the office of Secretary General, or will you wait for them to point it out to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u67	Give me some answers...!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u68	I'll give the nominations the floor. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u69	There is, but give them the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u70	I'll give you the floor. I'm waiting for procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u71	Mr. Chairman, you read the rules, but we read them too. He's already asked five or six questions to the candidates. We will not allow you to close the debate and then answer. We want the answers before you close the debate, because we have more questions and more speeches. And if you intend to circumvent the Rules of Procedure, I say again, to hide the ministers, the candidates for ministers, I do not see the point of today's debate. Or take the role of Chairman and give the floor.. They want to talk, by the way, I see them. Give them your word to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I will give the floor to the candidates for ministers. At the moment they listen carefully to you, so to prepare themselves better. You do the talking. I give the floor for speeches. We don't break the rules in any way. There is no such requirement, so we continue with the speeches. I give the floor for speeches. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u73	We're waiting for answers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u74	A statement? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u75	We want answers to the questions! What is this, you're gonna define...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u76	Mr. Stoinev, I will give the floor to the candidates after the speeches! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u77	What do you mean?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u78	This is in no way a violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the contrary it is in line with good parliamentary practice. So far, candidates and others have always been heard after the debate. Procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u79	Mr. Chairman, I would like to tell you that the way this meeting is going, it will be difficult to end without a scandal. In the sense that many times has passed in this procedural practice, where MPs are spoken, you then give, or someone gives the floor to guests or ministers afterwards, this has happened many times, but this time it will not happen. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Now you have a moment where... You've already tried the resistance you can get from the gym. I have no idea why you, Borisov, Tsvetanov or anyone else needs this, but I'm telling you that what you're planning is not going to happen. Or if it does, it'll be at the cost of your or any other resignation, we've already played it, we'll play it again if you want. [[Applause from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u80	Mr. Kutev, you just threatened a scandal. I don't think this should be the agenda of this House. Let us continue carefully and calmly according to the good parliamentary practice we have had so far. Your MPs' statements do not contribute to stressing the situation so far. Let us let the candidates for ministers listen to the speeches in this House and then respond. Procedure? Okay. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As one proverb says: "All things are clear to enter the victim. " I understand that every once in a while you get the embarrassment chip on. I mean, shame on its own is a good thing. It's nice to have that chip on you. Now we're in the dark, as they say. You have no direct broadcast, you have voted against, don't be shy, give them the floor, urge them. Because this is where we debate, debate! The debate, Mr. Chairman, is not a monologue! Our speeches depend on the answers of the candidates for ministers! Invite them, let them come, let them answer, the journalists who have remained here to film, to convey to the Bulgarian society if they have any concept of these ministries, do they not have what is happening! We know they don't. But let them, let them come and answer. Maybe a miracle will happen. Maybe they do! And in this regard, here, please write down the questions we have asked so far. Many have become more than six or seven questions. It's probably written by the ministers' candidates. I make you an offer: write them down, so that when they come to answer, if a miracle happens, they know what to answer. And one more question for you and perhaps for the future ministers. They will be ministers in this Council of Ministers, which has voted on a single decision. The other day in Salzburg Borisov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u82	You're drifting. Mr. Popov, you are deviating in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u83	...there's another solution. Which decision will they support as future ministers in this Council of Ministers or that of Borisov in relation to Hungary?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u84	Go back to the procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u85	Let them come and answer, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u86	Please, Mr. Popov, give me some attention, you've strayed enough from the procedure. Please return to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u87	This will give me a personal answer to which group of the Council of Ministers they will belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Popov. There was a procedure before you, Mr. Kutev. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! I will again appeal to the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. I ask all Members to comply with the Rules of Procedure, not to turn the procedural questions to the substance as is the prohibition of art. 57 of the Rules of Procedure. Please also note, Mr President, that there are five parliamentary groups in the Parliamentary Hall. We only listen to the same procedures. Besides, I also have questions for Asen Gagauzov about regional policy, but he's not here, is he? [[Applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have a lot of questions, a lot of comparisons I can make. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I asked him a lot and he chased me out of his office. Imagine that, comrades! [[Laughter at GERB.]] Mr President, I would like to include all the time used for quasi-procedures to be taken into account as the time of the parliamentary group concerned and to impose penalties in respect of compliance with the Rules. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u91	Mr. Chairman, very specifically. In my opinion, there is a misunderstanding about which procedures are used. At the moment this is a procedure in the manner of keeping for example and should not be deducted from time. That's why I'm taking the floor. The same was Philip Popov's. Because you counted it in the manner of conduct and took his word on it, and at the same time the time of the group was running, which in the procedure in the manner of keeping our Rules is not correct. So please clarify the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u92	This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner in which I am holding, I really ask not to overdo the use of procedure in the manner of conduct. I understand, Mr. Kutev, but let's get back to the debate. With regard to the issue, this is a debate, but this debate is within the parliament. In this debate in no way can they participate, they can answer questions then, give their vision, but they do not participate as you want them to in the debate. The debate is parliamentary. Mr. Zablyanov, you have your vision, but this is a parliamentary debate. Yes, if they want to, they will finally get the floor of the candidates for ministers and will answer the questions. I do write them down, I am convinced, and I see that they also record the questions that you ask, but let them listen to what is being said about them and the ministries.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u93	They're not ministers yet! To answer for what? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u94	Let's keep talking. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Svilenski's statement. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, this debate of mistrust is very similar to me. Why are you afraid to speak, to protect the ministers, those who are not; those whom you have offered us? What are you all looking at? [[indicating SG of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you think he'll raise his hand from the BSP? There are questions, there are speeches, we asked questions, no one wants to answer. The chairman said he'd give the floor when he decided. Why are you doing this? Danny Kirilov, your question to Mr. Gagauzov for 2005 ask him to a party meeting of the Lozen Party Organization, invite him and there he will answer you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here in Parliament, in 2018. There's no need! Colleagues, but let us get back to the topic on which we have gathered today the resignation of the three ministers, who do not see them today, and the choice of the new two ministers. In January, the parliamentary group of BSP submitted a no-confidence vote with the topic "Corruption." Then you all accused us of wanting to sabotage the Bulgarian European Presidency. Then you all accused us of wanting to break down or break the state if I used the dictionary of the person absent today. He's probably ashamed of what's happening in this room, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u96	It's working! We sent him to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u97	Then we told you that corruption is robbing. Only six months after that, the media, society and we all told you that corruption is already killing. And, of course, there's no way that a policy targeted at robbing the next consequences of not killing. And we've come to these 17 victims, innocent! [[Calling from the hall: * Shameless! *]] Whether I'm shameless or not, come here and say it from this stand! Don't shout from the last row! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u98	Please, Mr. Svilensky, do not engage in dialogue with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u99	In June, honourable Members, we again requested a vote of no confidence. This time, the issue was the Homeland Security and a large part of the reasons for the vote was road safety. And none of you got up here to talk. We asked for the Home Secretary's resignation. Why did you accept his resignation now? Why did you request his resignation now? It's not his fault, is it? Doesn't the Ministry have any responsibility on road safety? Tell me, what has changed in these two months if I am shameless? Tell me what's changed. Measure 183, Objective 700 of the Election Program of GERB: Colleagues, why did you re-assalize Svoge's precinct? Why did you re-assalize it two weeks ago, when everything was fine, when safety is on the level, I can't figure it out? Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm transferring the ball to you again when you were a minister, and I'll commend you to the Chamber. [[(People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov:]] Victims really had a fall: from a thousand to 600! But they've been from 600 to 700 ever since! That means we have a promotion. Both you and Mr. Borisov and the ministers promised a new Law on Road Traffic. And last year, and the year before, and after every accident! You met four ministers, you, Mr. Borisov: Give a new law! Where's the new law? Four years after your promise, where is the new law? What kind of business is he in? The only thing you could do was wonder now how Mrs. Fandakova would put belts on the standing passengers in the public transport. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what you did! That's what you did on Friday! You wonder how, and she wonders the woman, wondering how to put belts on standing passengers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u100	Don't wonder! That's under the Car Transport Act!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u101	And now for the Ministry of Transport a few comments. Of course, I will not comment on either the future candidate or the current minister. I'm also impressed by Ivaylo Moskovski, and I know Mr. Zhelyazkov, but the problem is politics. Four sectors, Mr. Zhelyazkov, who will now lay you down, as soon as you leave here: for BDZ the colleague asked. What's going on with BDZ? Are we gonna keep ruining it? Shall we continue to reduce schedules? Shall we continue not to do repairs? Are we going to keep the trains on fire and have nothing to travel with? That's a question you're looking at. Will you continue the concession at Sofia Airport? There was a lot of resistance here. You have to! It's the only way! Is this the way to get 500 million and spend the most profitable airport? "Bulgarian Post Office" "Fresh Strike," protests. Are we going to stabilize them or are we going to conceit them too? See how many things come on your back now? And you have to give an answer because European projects, NRIC (National Railway Infrastructure) are they paid off, aren't they, how much is there to be paid for these projects? Will they be completed, or will Bulgaria lose money from these unrealized projects? There's no one to answer those questions! Mr. Nankov, I don't see him here. The infamous toll system! There were 180 million so, by the way, a month ago and he accused me of incompetence. Maybe I'm not competent. Yeah, I'm not a financier, I'm not an economist, but the government has made a decision on the toll system to release 180 million. Why don't you come over and tell me what they're for? Fine, they're not for the toll system! To come and say what they're for. Does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works owe money to construction companies that make repairs on the streets, on the roads, and how much money does it owe, and where will it pay? Or are you deluding the people's representation that with some money for the toll system we will be paying for other things delayed in time? Yeah, I'm not a financier, an economist. Let some expert come here and answer these questions, because citizens are not obliged to know what you are spending 180 million on. lv. Resignation is the easiest thing, only I can't accept it for a month: they were submitted, it was a moral act, it was male behavior, decent behavior. Hey, guys! The male behavior is when the accident happens, the next day you resign. That's male behavior! We waited a week for someone to think of something to do. In the end, the Prime Minister asked for the resignations. One of the ministers even marveled and said: but, for me, resignation is not, political responsibility is not only with resignation! How it is worn in any other way I do not know, perhaps from a minister to become a deputy minister, it must be political responsibility, or for example to take a ministerial post in another ministry. But this remains for those who claim that the resignation they have submitted and she was asked for, they had not asked for it was asked of them by the Prime Minister, and it should be clear how moral and, not to say, what other act it is. And regarding the withdrawal of the application, I could not understand whether Mr. Manolev withdrew himself or the Prime Minister made him withdraw, because we also heard about this application what a moral act it was, and what a male act it was to withdraw in order not to cast a stain on GERB. I am the last person who will go to accuse fellow candidates because of writing in the media, because I have a lot written about me, but when the Prime Minister tells you to resign, be a man, come out and say: the Prime Minister has taken trust from me and replaced me. What are these circuses: I hire you in the morning, I have a conversation, press conferences, I retire. Where are you retreating from? They just don't want you. Here, half of you seem to have had a problem with the nomination. I wish the gentlemen good luck if they are chosen! It's really a big challenge. The problem is that politics will not change and the government must go away! The only disadvantage, Mr. Chairman, of the draft decisions is that there are only three, and not for the entire composition of the Council of Ministers. If you had filled out all the decisions with the entire composition of the Council of Ministers, the BSP parliamentary group would have unanimously supported you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I don't know what three resignations you're talking about and taking responsibility from the government. Today we are talking about a half resignation or a resignation because, put your hand on the heart and say that we knew before the vacation that two of the resignations would be there before the Svoge incident. All MPs in informal talks knew that Mr. Moskovski would withdraw from the post, Mr. Radev too. Is this taking responsibility or covering the eyes of Bulgarian citizens? Only Mr. Nankov was a surprise, so I think we're talking half or one resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other lines? Mr. Bikov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I'm making a line because that was about the first statement in essence after the general excitement that is here on the left side of the room. Because you're talking about resignations, it's hard to get into a debate. This debate is impossible for you, and that is why you are so hyperactively throwing yourself from one end of the room to the other because you do not understand the resignations. The only person from the BSP who has so far resigned in this term is your employee from the "Positano" 20 who has rented the spa hotel. [[Applause from GERB.]] Another person has not resigned, but a lot has happened in your garden! Arrests happened, and all kinds of things happened. There was no resignation. Political responsibility has not yet been suffered, so take it easy on the resignations. I, of course, accept this debate and your criticism. You're entitled to that. Another question is how you formulate them and which belfry you speak them from, but male behavior, as Mr. Svilensky says, requires, firstly, that you be clean when you go out on this stand. First you take political responsibility for your actions, once you have said which one of your people has done some trouble, and there are, we see them. Every other day, every two of them pop up, who's being arrested with people convicted of drug trafficking, who's to blame there. When you men come out and say, "We made a mistake here, that's what we did, then you can go out and tell those resignations who asked for them, how they hadn't submitted them or asked for them." It's a political issue. The ministers implement the Programme and the next ministers will continue to implement it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Third line? I won't. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojankov, you're right. These resignations of Mr. Moskovski, Mr. Radev, were expected for six months and we all knew them. And not just us. Both Bulgarian citizens and the media asked when it would happen. The question was whether there will be two resignations, whether it will be June "after the European Presidency," or a little later. They found a reason, blew out the fuses. The next one's waiting in line back there. However, the problem is another problem, really, with taking responsibility politically, whether it will be to the end, because Mr. Bikov is telling me here about some political responsibilities that we cannot carry them, and they are carrying many... [[Noise and lines.]] I will ask them now which resignation has been accepted.... gave Mrs. Petkova, gave to Mr. Biser Petkov? Which one was accepted? I'm sorry he's gone. Which responsibility was taken? You're talking about unsold and unsolicited resignations, but the problem will be if Mr. Nankov remains Deputy Minister. Then I would like to ask you and see how, honourable Members, you take responsibility when a minister, assuming a man's responsibility for the resignation, becomes a deputy minister and continues to lead the leadership? Or as happened at the Ministry of Justice, when the prisoners escaped, the head of the General Directorate of Punishment went to the head of the prison. The one who let them go went to protect them! It's pretty much the same thing that's gonna happen here, I think, but that's your question. Mr. Bikov, let me not answer your questions, but let the media have something to write down. After that spa resort, I think you saw me showering in the pool and I think I'm clean and I can talk, right? [[Laughter at GERB.]] I have a right to speak! So don't throw the wrong evidence at the coworkers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Baychev, you said? No. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: "Come on, from the bottom of the hall."]] Don't stop him, don't stop him! [[(Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: Over there, to the fellow ministers!]] Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman! It's nice to have everyone shower more often, I understand you've started. Look, it's very sad that the new ministers haven't taken office yet, so you want to hear back from me, I don't know what. You haven't asked a question, and they haven't sworn yet. Regarding whether resignations are sought or not, whether they are revoked, this is a personal sacred constitutional right of the prime minister. He decides which works, which he does not work with, and how he will work with, and the responsibility lies with only him and not the speakers. If you have to talk like that about resignations, see, I don't want to be confused with the party that inside you have disassembled quite a bit, but the fact that you ruined the notion of position makes every government lazy. And when a government is lazy, it threatens national security. By that logic, because I'm concerned about national security, I may want the resignations of your leaders. So you better resign to someone who will be a serious opposition in order to have responsible and serious governance and security in the country. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria to the National Representative Vezdi Rashidov: What did you say now?! What did you say?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoinev, will you allow Mr. Baichev to speak? No. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Awesome.)]] Colleagues, if there are no speeches, let's finish the speeches. Another procedure, Mr. Kutev? You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u111	Mr. Chairman, I don't know where the the thesis comes from, that the ministers actually had to take the floor themselves when they asked for it. That's off the books. It says that at any time they take the floor of ministers, they are not ministers yet, they are candidate ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u112	That's right, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u113	Which means if they have to take the floor, it should only be on your own initiative, you have to give it to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u115	Which is why I suggest that Mr. Tsvetanov will now take the floor, but before him let them speak so that he knows what to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. A statement, Mr. Kirilov? You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers! I take the floor of speech to emphasise that when a Member of the National Assembly wants to say something, to develop some thesis, he does not need to use some or other procedures. In the end, this is indeed a major breach of the logic of a thesis that has been expressed in the order of order. I would like to state my strong support for the proposal that we are discussing at the moment and is made by the President of the Council of Ministers. I would also like to say that, in my personal human opinion, and I believe that, in the conviction of our parliamentary group colleagues, we are punishing with resignation decent people who have worked responsibly, seeking to achieve serious results, and in each of the three cases, any one of the non-existing ministers in resignation can report to this National Assembly serious achievements in the area concerned. Such achievements that have never happened before. In a political debate, it's easy to manipulate. I don't want to give negative examples in this direction. It is not right that this debate should be compared on the basis of what the government of the Triple Coalition did, what the three ministers did, what is the difference. This difference is seen by our constituents, and in fact we are competing for the choice of each Bulgarian. How's he gonna do that, what criteria is he gonna do that for? He's not gonna do that on procedural matters, he's not gonna do it on some procedural banter or other. Without being an attack on the opposition and their government, I will say the following. With regard to Minister Moskovski, for me he worked extremely well in a very difficult sector where there were inherited problems and huge deficits. I'm not going to take the tape back, I'm not going to ask exactly when the debt BDZ is in debt, I'm not going to ask who was making the profitable or unfavorable deals to deliver some or other trains and rolling stock. I am pleased with the work with Minister Moskovski because he organised the teams in his ministry and they worked in good faith, qualitatively, objectively, I think colleagues from the Legal Commission will also say this in relation to the Law on concessions. Yes, in the end we will all decide, a final assessment will be taken regarding the long-term opportunity to implement a concession procedure at Sofia airport. With regard to Minister Nankov, I would say that we started with him as fellow regional governors, I...................................................................................... Nikolai was then the youngest district manager. Then on the part of the Council of Ministers the regional governors coordinated us here the present candidate for minister now Rosen Zhelyazkov. Nikolai was also a good district manager, was a good deputy minister of regional development. [[Announcement from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] He was also a very successful Minister for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u118	He's still alive! He's alive!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u119	I'm talking about my colleague Nankov's ministerial term.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u120	But he's alive!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u121	What you think, colleagues, is just your dark thoughts. [[Extremely exhilarating, laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] Regarding Minister Radev, he suffered many attacks from the opposition, but as a disciplined officer, I believe that Minister Radev dealt with this sector. True, there has always been a struggle and competition between defense officers and security officers. [[Excessive excitement, laughter.]] Colleagues, I am delighted and inspired by the fact that we find all the forces, including the opposition, at this time to see light, to see positive reasons for humor. Radev did it! Whatever the coworkers say, whatever cliches they say. Again, it's easy to put the tape back. Easy and simple are comparisons. Yes, I wish my colleague Ivanov to be a minister sometime, at least a successful deputy minister of this office. By the new candidates, I know all three of them. To a different extent, I know all three of them. Since we started with the transport, I will start with the candidacy of Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, whom I have known since 2003. We have worked in different configurations with Mr. Zhelyazkov. I guarantee to you he's a wonderful professional.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u122	Is that a warrant?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u123	Yes, definitely, Mr. Svilensky, it's a warrant. Remember, I have chosen you as a member of the board of the Sofia Estates. [[GRUNTING BY GERB.]] Mr. Zhelyazkov is a lawyer with exceptional qualifications and experience and is one of the colleagues with whom I have gladly worked and always thought that we have achieved a wonderful interaction and good results. I am glad that he specializes in recent years in the field of communications, electronic communications and management.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u124	They're all worthy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u125	They're all worthy, as our chairman says. Petya Avramova and I have several mandates together and is a wonderful regionalist, with Secretary-General Mladenov I have worked as a regional governor and I think he is a worthy, quality and successful officer. Dear colleagues, let us not confuse dignity with disgrace. You're trying, and you're good at dishonoring every person. With you there is no stopping and restriction, there is no limit in the blackening and destruction machine. But I believe that all voters have accepted resignation as a moral act, as an act of innocence, but an act of empathy. I also believe that we will have the support of our constituents for the work of the new ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u126	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u127	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, for these three ministers, it was as if you were giving a eulogy. [[Laughter]] The truth is, these are good professionals in my opinion, and it's a shame they're leaving. It is no accident that our NFSB group will vote against their resignations. But I wanted to return you and ask the following question. [[Replications from OP.]] A line, that's the one I'm putting a line to. Mr. Kirilov, when the debate became unpleasant and we started digging through the bones of dead people, you should produce the following statistics. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Kirilov, you should get her out! I will now read the figures impartially without politicizing things, categorically, these are figures, these are facts: 2005. I'm not saying who's in charge, 2005 on the road, sadly 957 victims; 2006. 1043 victims; 2007 1006 victims; 2008 1061 victims, and as of 2009, there has been a sharp reduction in road casualties: 2009. "901'; 2010 "775"; 2011 ==References=====External links==* "Further reading"* "Further reading"* "Further reading"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings, "Further readings"* "Further readingsandings"* "Further readingsandings"* "Further"* "Furthering"* "Fury"* "Furtherings"* "Further readings. 599. Here is one of the reasons, Mr. Kirilov, for which I will vote against these resignations. Because my friend in those first data "Peter Mutafchiev" did not hide it, from one end we are, we know each other very well, and when the train burned and killed 9 people like torches on the train, the man most honorable and in a male way wanted to resign himself, then his government stopped him from resigning. So these are the things you should have said, Mr. Kirilov, not how good the ministers are, because the data shows that things are very different on the roads, especially during their management. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you mentioned that you do not want to go back and say who made these deals, these public contracts in connection with the purchase of some trains, or what it is about. However, on behalf of our representatives of the free people who have voted, not for parties that have managed and made deals, it is very important for us to say this thing. Because maybe you know what this minister has been doing here, the other one... but we don't know them and it's very important for us to specify who, when, what deals, if he has bought some trains that have come up with some kind of arson or other things to rob, it's nice to say so that we can become part of the Bulgarian Parliament, and the Bulgarian citizens who don't know these things should be aware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Third line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I think your speech deserves a real line. You say we're trying to disgrace. We are trying to do the opposite, trying to restore trust in this institution, in these ministers, including the new ministers, but you disgrace them. Disgrace them when you say: they are punished by resignation. That's how you lower them to someone who can be punished, drawn, taken and thrown to the wolves. Disgrace them when you say they did well, but they have to leave for some reason. Either you think they've done well and you trust them to rule, or you think they can't handle it, and you're asking them to leave, and that's how you humiliate them and humiliate them. Their resignation is no longer a moral act or any political act, because it has become clear to everyone that nothing depends on them as it will not depend on the new ones, and in the end you disgrace them. When you say the candidate minister of regional development is a key ministry, Petya and I are several mandates together, it is very good, it is a condescending invitation. Mrs. Petya Avramova has the right and obligation to come to say what is her vision for the regional development of Bulgaria so that each of us can make our informed decision. The way these personnel changes are being carried out is disgraceful. That's the truth. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ministers! The truth is, I don't want to give an answer and do the doppelganger, but I have to. In view of the claim of seriousness of the issue, I say the following: colleague Zarkov, so does not return trust, with half-truths and untruths does not return trust. I wasn't in the room, but I followed the debate, you called us killers. You called us murderers! In this qualification, which is extremely unworthy, I will not comment. There's been a broad debate here, and is there a case to be prosecuted for this? The debate about this is here, and that is why we must respond to you and restore the trust that we are not, and that is why we are doing it with political actions and acts. That is why we are doing it to restore trust, what you cannot do. Otherwise, at your reply, to the honourable Mr. Mareshki, I will say: Mr. Mareshki, not in 10 minutes, nor in three minutes could I explain my attitude and knowledge of a number of cases in which, in my opinion, politics has damaged the state interest, has harmed me as a Bulgarian citizen, me as a Sofian, and so on. I will have to speak to you at some point from this stand how I was blackened and stuffed in that corner right by colleagues from the opposition parliamentary group. I'll tell Mr. Mareshki this: the truth always comes out. I've asked, and I've asked Gagauzov, and I've asked Rumen Ovcharov. Where is Gagauzov now? First RES Energetic. Beautiful! Where is Brother and Brother on the top street, in a monument of culture, super-luxury performance. If there was a Anti-Corruption Commission then this property would probably have been taken away, but many of you are innocent, many people paraded by the fact that they have bought justice. All these cases, fellow Members, will come out. With regard to the reply of my colleague Atanasov from the United Member, I think that without direct aggression, a person can defend a specific thesis without attacking directly. I'm sorry if I didn't seem convincing enough. I saw some pre-op reactions in the hall. I was more happy with the positive emotions than the negative emotions or the attack. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u134	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, please extend the time of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u136	They're already extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The speech of a colleague who spoke before me caused laughter in the Chamber. I think it was inappropriate, because at least the occasion of these resignations is one of the most tragic incidents in our recent history, but it is only a mark to the general tone of this debate. Every debate on cabinet changes in the executive power is a debate on the policy of this cabinet, an assessment of the work of this cabinet. We of the DPS adhere to this maxim and therefore, if you listened carefully, our chairman very detailedly justified and concluded that the potential of this cabinet is exhausted. Whatever changes it makes, it cannot change the general sense of management weakness, chaos and failure to deal with the agenda of society. The brightest evidence of this, of course, is the gap between the problems that people think are the main problems of society and what the cabinet is dealing with. See what the cabinet is doing after the Euro-presidentship - intrigues, coalition disputes, the small coalition, one, the other, the second, the third, the big coalition, the problems between the two groups, and ultimately the problems in the ruling party itself. Is this the agenda of society? A deputy prime minister has been going all summer bragging about closing two restaurants. Can you imagine the scale of thinking in this man's head? And this man is tasked with being the deputy prime minister of the state! Do you understand what this is about? That's all it takes to conclude that this office can't do much more than that. Time does not allow me to elaborate on all the things that are happening and what the office is working on after the European Presidency, but I will tell you what the result is. Evidence of this chaos is yesterday's incident, last night's: the cabinet is adopting a decision to support a government that, in our view, does not protect European principles and values. I am talking about Hungary, we will have a special position on this subject, and then the Prime Minister says that this decision has no legal value. And then his two deputy prime ministers, one of them, is surprised and does not believe that this can be said.. Karakachanov, and the other says that the prime minister of one country cannot blam the decision of his own government. Maybe, Mr. Simeonov, maybe. When this country has a deputy prime minister like you, anything can. This is only proof of our words and of the declaration he made with the position of the DPS at the opening of the new political year President Karadayi and his words today about the government having exhausted potential. But the result? I will only focus on two facts: foreign investment. Open the BNB statistics and you will see a complete collapse of foreign investment not only of foreign investment but of all investments for the first seven months of the year. This is the most important indicator for a country how the external business, which is extremely sensitive, feels the stability in question, feels the management, feels where this management is going. The collapse is 63%, colleagues, in just one year. The collapse is in all components of the investment, not only of the foreign ones: in share capital, the total amount of EUR 210 million. BGN, in the reinvested profit EUR, in debt investments, credit investments Euros. The second example: one of the decisions that the government prides itself on the decision for the Eurozone, adopted with extremely humiliating requirements to Bulgaria, and I will tell you why I dwell on this fact. A few days ago, the deputy governor of the Czech bank on the occasion of this decision, as far as all the next candidates for the Eurozone are concerned, and these are both Poland and the Czech Republic and Hungary, and so on, they are interested in saying: the humiliating conditions Bulgaria has adopted cannot afford any government that respects itself. And we, in so far as it is finally written in this decision that the next candidate for the Eurozone will have to assume the same conditions that Bulgaria has taken up, he, as a representative of one of the countries that will go down this road, says: we cannot accept what you have accepted it. These are just two examples of how the cabinet works for chaos management, for lack of vision, for concentration on people's problems. Therefore today the debate is not and should not be about resignations and appointments, but it should be about where the country is going. The government has exhausted its potential. The other conclusion is the President's and our parliamentary group's, and I hope the others too: that the new elections, the early elections, will lead to nothing different. That is to say, the whole political situation requires the conclusion that a dialogue is necessary and what we propose is a concrete programme for the development of Bulgaria, which should be focused on all these problems that people are waiting for us to solve and also on the problems that are very serious in the European Union and our place there. This we do not see, and therefore there is no way to support such action by the cabinet at all, by the ruling majority. I think there is much we can talk about, with many facts, to confirm our thesis, but what we have said is enough to think about all of us to add to this the institutional war that you brought the country into. Because these resignations and this shift in the cabinet brought forward that between the institutions in Bulgaria you caused severe tensions, which can be called the institutional crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u138	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. A line? I won't. Mr. Gurnevsky for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u139	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u140	The way you're leading it? I've already given the floor. Go on, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members, the last speeches have prompted me to make a statement. I had no intention of participating today, but the insolence that has been shown today by our opposition colleagues has caused this statement. I will ask you four or five questions and one answer will be given as you want answers. First of all, you realize that there is no way for the candidates for ministers to become before you, and there are managers here who are former and who are not chosen without knowing the matter they will manage without preparing their specific long-term and short-term programme, to come to give a vision for management, and you all realize that it will. You just want to cause a political circus! Since you want questions, I'm asking you a few specific questions. In this room, you called our group, the majority responsible, the murderers, the 17 victims in Svoge.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u142	How many times have you called us murderers? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u143	I'll call you again, don't worry. On 7 February 2006, a bus fell off the bridge of Byala and 19 Bulgarians died during your reign. First of all, no one called you murderers then, but none of you resigned either. Here are the moral differences between the two governments. The murders, when you talk about the Ministry of Interior, this is what the Ministry of Interior is working under conditions in which it has inherited the 70-year-old government of your country - 50 communist and 20 looted during democracy. Not only the Ministry of Interior, but all sectoral policies and ministries were destroyed so that in these 10 years to rebuild these institutions to give their results and, as colleague Atanasov read, you see the results speak. The Ministry of Interior works in the name of the people and this has been proven. But I'm asking you: during your regime, when you created the Ministry of Interior and State Security to protect the communist order and regime, the killings became your policy. innocent intelligent Bulgarians killed without trial and sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u144	Is he talking about resigning?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u145	We're talking about the resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u146	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u147	You're talking about robbed Bulgaria here just now. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" You robbed it! "]] From 1989 to 2009, this country was pillaged by the Communist Party, State Security through foreign trade companies. Ask Mrs. Ninova how...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u148	Mr. Gurnevsky, close to the subject, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u149	...ask Mr. Gechev how bank crises happen! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're talking about oligarchy. From the last month alone, four names quote: Bencho Benchev is related to your group, your sponsor and is on your list in Burgas; we are passing through Karnobat Minyu Staykov, your sponsor, your member, candidate in your lists; we are going through Vetko Arabadjiev, security agent Plovdiv; we are going through Georgi Gergov, ask how Mrs. Ninova gave him a Panaira...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u150	I've already made a remark!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u151	... Chairman of the BSP Regional Council. That's where the oligarchy is! I asked Simov, there's one name he can't name. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u152	Mr. Gurnevsky, a little closer to the subject, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u153	Yeah, I'm right up to the point! A moment ago, it was said that the government was losing its potential here, from this tribune. What government loses potential when it retains economic growth for the third year, the internal gross product grows, wages grow, cuts external debt, increases fiscal reserve? [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Tsonev is talking about investment, less investment, there may be such a syndrome. But isn't it because these investors are a little worried when they see who's about to come to power? Maybe that's why you're talking about the new vision. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past 10 years, you've gone three times to consult this people, and now you've gone to the spa for the fourth time. And the fourth time will become like the first three times: after these last regular elections that will take place, in your urns instead of red ballots you will get new red cards. [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? I won't. Dear Mr. Angelov, in the manner of conduct, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The procedure in the manner of conduct is as follows: why did you allow DPS MP Yordan Tsonev to speak not on the topic that is being commented today? Neither were the three resignations of the ministers, nor the new proposals for ministers, allowed lies and shit to be poured out and not to speak on the subject, and not once did you comment on it, and you interrupted it several times, which I find unacceptable. So we can't measure things with different archins, we can't let the DPS always do what they want. Mr. Tsonev did not make a statement on the topic, he made a statement as if it were on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u156	The way you're holding Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. In fact, your behaviour in this case, in one of the rare ones, was correct because Mr. Tsonev quoted specific information, which is officially from BNB, firstly, and, secondly, he quoted the statements that have been public in the media since yesterday. So there is no manipulation here, and all this has to do with the power that we are discussing today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u158	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Dear Mr. Siderov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The resignations of three ministers are the topic of today's debates, I stress, because in the Bulgarian language, the word "debates" is plural, as is the case and the words "colleagues," there is no singular number, so I ask you very much not to say: this debate. These debates! Debates, unfortunately, there wasn't, since we didn't hear any ideas. It requires the resignation of the entire government. I must tell you that I proposed it before you, I proposed that all the ministers resign. There is nothing dramatic, nothing apocalyptic, the renewal of a cabinet is absolutely normal and democratic. Mr. Tsonev, who had previously spoken, also hinted or directly said that the government could not handle it and had to leave. And I would agree with him, and I would say even more critical remarks to the government, because I'm being critical in the first place. However, the Honorary Chairman of the DPS, of the party which represents Mr. Tsonev, very recently said that there is no alternative to this government. I trust him, he's an old, experienced politician, he's gone through different phases and everyone says he's an experienced and good philosopher and politician. I mean, Mr. Dogan. On the part of the BSP the candidate for president, who became, raised, elected by BSP, very recently also said that there is no alternative to this government and there are no conditions for early elections. He's not such an experienced politician, but I believe in his iron leaven, which is said, military, he's a man who knows what he's talking about, he doesn't waste his words in vain, so I trust the president, and as a representative of the highest government, the Head of State. Sociology says the same thing. Nearly two thirds of the Bulgarian people, our society does not want early elections because it does not see who could replace the current government. So we wish we didn't want to, we have to keep going! And we continue by replacing three ministers. It is very clear why there were tragic events, not to repeat that, there were accumulated shortcomings in the work of some of them. We have heard many praises here, but just because a man is a professional does not mean that he can be an eternal minister. The minister is a political position, it is not technocratic, it is political, so the shift of three ministers is quite logical. From the beginning, when it became known, I said this. Here in our group we have a difference, we have differences, which is logical and normal, and one of the parties in the "United Patriarchs" (NFSB) will vote against resignations. They don't agree that these people should resign. This is their right and they will vote on it, but in general our group will support the new names of the ministers. They are referred to by the prime minister, who has the right to do so, and is motivated by why he refers to them as candidates for ministers. Also, as a travesty politician I can say about one of the new ministers of the Ministry of Interior, he was the most discussed, I do not know if there is another person in this room, another MP who has direct, personal impressions of street clashes with Mladen Marinov I have! And I can tell you that he was doing his job just right. [[sighs and laughs]] So I support him, and I'm sure he'll do it right from now on. You know that Ataka's protests are not boring, they are always full of tension and energy, but he was in his place as head of security police and will now be in his place as Minister of Interior. For the other two ministers, I am also convinced that they will work properly. Why? Because yesterday we had a council, it is said the Development Council, where the parliamentary groups that support the government, and the ministers, understand each other this way: now every week and once a month we have to do a reporting survey of what is being done in the ministries, to have a much more direct connection between the ministries and the parliament, what needs to be done and to be accepted here, to go faster and accordingly we have a look and control over the ministers. This is the least we can do, because many of the things that are being done are positive, constructive things do not remain noticed, they sink either in the information stream, or they are not well emphasized. After all, a government can't do miracles. This is known by all the parties that have managed, without the will, of course, and they are yet to rule and we will see their qualities. Two words about the topic that DPS fellow Member here addressed about the case Hungary and the meeting in Salzburg. As I am directly involved, with my colleagues from Ataka....and colleagues from Volja....we submitted a draft decision National Assembly to oblige the Prime Minister to take a position against the sanctions against Hungary. Yesterday, my colleagues, the leaders of NFSB and IMRO, also confirmed their firm position that Bulgaria should support Orban in his quest to develop its country better, to take care of traditional values and to protect itself from the migratory flow. I can clearly see that common sense has also prevailed there, because in Brussels they have decided not to look at this topic now, at the meeting in Salzburg, it is not clear when it will be considered. In fact, yesterday there was no decision of the Council of Ministers, there was a discussion, after which the two colleagues from the Council of Ministers came down, announced their position, but there was no decision, as a formal act of the Council of Ministers. This does not matter, because I have spoken with the Prime Minister personally on this issue. He is ready to stand in the position of national identity, the protection of traditional values and showed it, as GERB MPs voted as we should. I believe that this trend will continue. This is really an interesting topic, this is the topic on which we should talk in the future here, and we should look more there, because the restructuring of Europe, of the European Parliament and of Europe as a whole is coming. This will affect Bulgaria, this should be followed in any case and be in class. Otherwise, we risk spinning in our kitchen problems, not seeing the big one. I am sure that the Bulgarian Prime Minister will take the right position on the issue of Hungary, so that we can express solidarity with one, I would say, a brotherly state, but why not we have ethnic intertwination and common roots. This is a country that shows that sovereignty is not an empty concept that Europe should be a Europe of generations. Thank you for your attention and I call on you, if there are no more questions I have seen that there are many accumulated questions to the future ministers, let us move on to their choice, to enable them to start answering parliamentary controls already. We see there's a lot of interest, there's something to ask them, there's something to answer. I combine with one procedure, Mr. Chairman, let's finish the speeches and go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. [[Applause from OP.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Siderov? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Mr. Siderov, I'm sorry that I won't accept and that I will say two or three words before we move on to the votes. I absolutely agree with your finding that there was no debate. We of the Political Party "Volja" had very seriously prepared ourselves for a debate on the substance, but with whom should we debate? Some people came out and read us pre-written words, not even trying to represent them as their own, just monotonically read them. Who wrote the words? What's written the covers? Let the people who wrote them come out to debate. How can I debate people who just read a text? Who wrote the props? We are already beginning to think about who are leading officers who lead these things or make certain people go out and say certain things that practically have no meaning in relation to the debates that we should be having right now. Since it has become modern, double standards in food, double standards in this, double standards in that. I cannot fail to note from all that I have heard that we see double standards both in your behaviour as political formations and as politicians. We have seen how the so-called opposition violently attacked one Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov, and certainly rightly, because we also do not think it is right for a deputy prime minister to go to establishments, and especially if it is selective, as he snuck into the media, to competitors of his advisors, or something like that. We are not going into this debate. And the other deputy prime minister, wouldn't he be responsible for the helicopter that fell, for the deaths of the two military men? His Sultaness, who is in parliament, will not be responsible for the company where death also occurred?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u162	Mr. Mareshki, a little closer to the subject, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u163	We're talking about resignations and responsibilities. What is happening is unprecedented. We are all opposed together to the brutal degenerates who abuse Bulgarian resort workers by beating them up. Also Bulgarians who do similar things in Germany, for example, when a Bulgarian had kicked a woman down the stairs. How do we react? How do you react to the abuse of Bulgarian citizens in the subways in Sofia by a municipal councillor from IMRO? [[(Noise and lines from OP: What is the problem?]] Wouldn't we want those resignations? Or, to be on the subject, from the whole debate, is that what I'm going to do by suggesting that you are currently preparing a coalition BSP, DPS, IMRO? Is that the offer? Come out and say it clearly, not now that I'm listening, to guess, to draw the appropriate conclusions and to come out and enlighten you. Go out and say clearly: yes, this coalition does not work, Valeri Simeonov is bad, Volen Siderov must also...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u164	Right on the subject, Mr. Mareshki, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u165	...but Karakachanov is good and we with BSP, DPS and IMRO will present to you the new vision for the management of Bulgaria in the coming years. If so, thank you, we will not participate in this, we cannot support such a coalition. And we will ask: everyone's conscience to weigh their actions. May good things happen from now on for Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. [[Unique applause by PP Volja.]] - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Angelov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have taken the floor for speech, but I will also mention that once again, MPs from this tribune have been allowed to violate the Rules of the National Assembly, not to speak on the subject, and you should not be concerned. Mr Mareshki, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, cannot have learned the Rules and not known that he should speak on the subject itself. Therefore, my speech will also concern what he was saying, because in the end, if you allow anyone else to say whatever they want, where it came from, that is, we should all do it, as he does it, as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I am glad that Mr. Mareshki, criticizing BSP colleagues for the props, finally saw for the first time that there is nothing written in front of him to read it, that is good, we are glad for that. I can't understand one thing: what exactly is his position, what exactly does the party do? Are they ruling, opposition? Are they for national security or not? They ultimately what exactly are they in the Bulgarian Parliament? It's not clear to me, it's normal to have a position and say: I am one and that is one and that is the case. His position is always from-to, which I think is not normal in politics. If we want to talk about the government, about the ministerial resignations, about the new ministers, let's be specific, let's say this minister and this minister, and this minister have not done this, this and this. We will support their resignations. Those who are proposed ministers have, for example, this and this as an advantage that can end up in the government, and we will support them. I didn't understand how Mr. Mareshki would vote in today's session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The line, Mr. Mareshki. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Thank you for your question. The position of the Political Party is always in the interest of Bulgarian citizens and is very specific. To see the difference, we support the respectable, moral gesture, if you will, the patriotic behaviour of the ministers who will now be gone, even though they are not directly responsible for the tragic events. That's what we're going to support because it's moral, it's right, it's patriotic, it's dignified. At the same time, we cannot support the unworthy, immoral, unpatriotic behaviour of Minister Karakachanov, who does not do the same. This is the difference, so that you can finally understand that we will not support the pound, we will behave properly, we will consistently support the good and the right, decent, patriotic deeds, and we will not support those who destroy the trust of society and say that they are all the same. I'm going back to the beginning of your first sentence. There is the biggest problem of IMRO, that if some have stolen before then, you say: "Because you have stolen before then, now we will steal too, because you think I have broken the Rules and you will break it. So, some have stolen from the station, and you will now steal with such an excuse. It's the worst thing that... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u170	Close to the content of the line, Mr. Mareshki, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u171	That's the line. His first sentence was because he believed that I had broken the Rules and he would violate it. And now I'm making the analogy that they've ever stolen and they're now going to steal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u172	No, you haven't broken the rules, but please don't break it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u173	Please, get down to the ground, see how other people react and know exactly where you belong. After all, your coalition partner tells you that. Have the valor... [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search, weather! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u174	Mr. Mareshki, just one sentence. Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u175	Just one sentence. Have the valor sometime to appear on your own in elections and then we will see what reward you will receive from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Veselinov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u177	Dear Mr. Angelov, I am not pleased with your speech. It was extremely lean to say it, as you could recall that some people who keep a morale tone here are actually being tried for beating on the streets of Varna. Here MP immunity continues to protect them, here they continue to enter into various behind-the-scenes agreements and sell their political influence against the delay in the cases which must ultimately bring justice. You forgot to say that suspicious deals at the Municipal Council of Varna have accompanied the existence of the previous political party. You forgot to say that the so-called party is actually a liberal party. Mr. Mareshki was the chairman of two parties, one of them liberal, that is, he was against everything Orbán represents, and today he is defending him. Mr. Angelov, I think you should motivate your speeches better, and then you will be supported by the House accordingly. Thank you. [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Angelov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Veselinov, you are right in your line, but I left these topics for dessert, for the duplicate, so that the Bulgarian society can understand what Mr. Mareshki really is and what his party is. My back to you, Mr. Mareshki, is this. You claim you weren't part of the department. You have participated for many years in the management of Varna. That is, if there are sins to the transition, and you have sins to the transition. You were also president of a liberal party, and now you are taking other positions. That is, we see such a change. [[Noise and lines.]] That's on the subject addressed to me as a line. If Mr. Mareshki can afford to talk about the absence of deputy prime ministers and accuse them of theft and of what else, provided that there is no case or any case against Mr. Karakachanov of such crimes, I ask myself what is your morality, given that you are being prosecuted, and you are standing in the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly? The most logical thing is at such a time, until all the verdicts come out, to withdraw, to stay in your parliamentary group, so that you do not influence the trials is the most normal. That's another thing I'm gonna remind you of. When you talk about Bulgarian national interests, about patriotism and so on, remind your President of the Commission on the policies of Bulgarians abroad, Mr. Donchev, that the things that talk about Bulgarian communities abroad should contribute to him resigning. If you really want to be a moral politician, be moral not only to the DANS, but also to your representatives from the parliamentary group who defend interests foreign to the Bulgarian national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[Applause.]] Just to remind you that Mr. Siderov suggested that we finish the speeches already. [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister! Honourable President, I ask that, on the basis of the Rules of the National Assembly, you do not allow clearly that there are problems in the ruling coalition, clearly that they lead us here to this debate, but do not allow at this responsible time by political statements attacks, including parties that want to adhere to some future governance, to shift the essence of the question... the resignations of the ministers, the new ministers, policies and vision. I'm asking you to bring order to the court. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Mr. Chairman, my request is that you try to follow the rules. You can't know all the facts, but when honest lies are cast in the Chamber, obviously this is the style of colleagues from IMRO, to them are added half-truths and these things must be made. I will only give you the fact that neither I nor our party nor the previous..... it is actually the same party................................ has ever been involved in the management of the city of Varna. We can't be held responsible for what it is now and what it was at the time we were on the City Council. That's an honest lie, and there's no... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u184	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we expected there to be a meaningful debate by the opposition. The good news is, at least the debate didn't end as it did with the no-confidence vote you asked for just months ago, where there wasn't a single statement. There was only a statement of reasons and they simply did not have the opportunity to put forward their arguments for the non-constant ones in the vote they asked for. And because in today's debate, there was a statement from the left that we did not speak on the vote of mistrust, just to say that there is a difference when the government makes a vote of confidence. Then we must defend, and when someone asks for a vote of mistrust................................then we must present our arguments here, right from the plenary tribune. What has been said today that we have no vision of the country's governance. I would just like to remind all the MPs that have appeared in elections in March 2017, each of the parties that stand before the voters, offers its management programme or priorities in its future governance. The GERB party received the highest result and together with the United Patriarchs and we made a coalition agreement, we also have a commitment programme, which was established in August 2017, and it is implemented according to the priorities set out in it. I can say that there is no retreat from any minister of the commitments that we have made to our constituents and, of course, the declared priorities that have been made in plenary. That is why I can say that our commitment to the most important topic that excites Bulgarian citizens is education because we know that even education and our attitude in plenary depends on our way of education and what we have received from the schools in Bulgaria. What impresses us today is that the government is fulfilling its commitment to increasing incomes. We know that in the 2019 draft budget, we will have a 10% increase in the budget area. From July 2019 there will be an increase in pensions by nearly 6%. We have economic growth, which is 4%. We have more revenue only a month ago when it was reported by the Finance Minister 2 billion. 600 million. lv. Dear colleagues from the left, would you say that in your governments you had the opportunity to declare such results and to really outline the real vision for Bulgaria? Because what we are seeing today and what is going on in the media is a decision of BSP MPs in the country. Dear colleagues, we are not making a landing. We've always been with people and we've always been in dialogue with them. What we observe today and are amused by what we have as an analysis of your meetings you are doing to present the vision of Bulgaria. Just to tell you that this is doomed to failure from the beginning, because you have given your electorate the opportunity to show your electorate in the electoral districts that the MPs who are elected are worth nothing, because at the moment you are sending MPs that they see for the first time, and some of these MPs are also visiting localities for the first time. [[Applause from GERB]] , and understand at least one.. you may have made a map with which you want to get to know all tourist destinations, or get to know Bulgaria, which you may not have known in all these years when you were in charge. I will set a specific example that I had fun with last week when I was in Blagoevgrad region. At a meeting of BSP MPs who are not from the Blagoevgrad region, stand in Bansko and say: "Dear people of Bansko, Bansko needs year-round tourism and this should be a priority for Bulgaria's vision. "Then people in the hall have said: "The Lord, you may be coming to Bansko for the first time because Bansko in recent years is a year-round resort and the summer months, some time, are better at economic indicators than those in the winter months. [[Applause from GERB.]] But this is a lack of communication and I thank Vesela Lecheva for what she said and did as an offer at this meeting she actively participated in. [[Applause from GERB.]] I would ask my colleagues from BSP just when you are going to present Bulgaria's vision, first get acquainted with the problems of the people. What the Council of Ministers is doing, and what the MPs are doing, what the parliamentary majority is doing is having foster meetings with the citizens and making policies, regardless of whether the mayor is supported by the BSP, whether he is elected by the BSP sympathizers, because we know that the development of the regions passes with the successful policies that must reach the people. I can give you many examples of municipalities in Bulgaria, which have always addressed me as a Member of the National Assembly, and to colleagues from the electoral regions, and we have always supported the good intentions that solve people's problems. What is extremely important to know about the Transport Ministry, where there were many reproaches and many disapprovals of Ivaylo Moskovski's activities. Colleagues from BSP, do you remember the period when you completed your mandate 2009 and the obligations of BDZ were about 800 million. lv. To creditors, to banks? You had bought sleeping cars, modern cars and whatnot left it to her as an obligation of the next ones to come after you. Do you remember what happened in recent years and do you know what the indicators are at the moment of the Transport Ministry? The State's liabilities of 800 million lv. It's already 110 million. lv. What is extremely important to know in the field of the Regional Ministry would you brag about when in the years of transition our country had an education infrastructure policy? Over 624 million. lv. they will be for the Bulgarian education and this will be for the infrastructure that we all know that when we lead our children, there should be conditions in which they get knowledge, and we as parents to be calm about that they are in a good environment. I would also like to ask you something else, because you have spoken a lot on the subject of Security. Maybe what you talked about here, and what you wrote to yourself, you should have said it just a few months ago when it was the no-confidence vote, but you didn't. It's a good thing you at least took out those archival writings and read them here. In the security sector, despite your criticism, I can say that at the moment from the management mandate, which started from March 2017, after the election, 1700 are police officers who have been appointed to date. For this period, about 600 people have left, which means we have more than 1,100 police presence. Let us also remember what the Ministry of Interior has done to create 600 mobile teams that can actually cover all these small remote settlements, so that there can be a police presence and that we can actually get acquainted with the problems and react adequately. What is extremely important to know when you go out and talk about responsibility, here Spas Gurnevski asked no question The only moment you have suffered some moral responsibility is that 2014 you resigned and we went to early parliamentary elections. With the legacy that you left over 5 - 6% deficit, I can say that now with the stability that is in Bulgaria today with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and with the coalition government that we have with. We also have a forecast of a good prospect for the coming years. Dear colleagues, let us also remind you of something extremely important when you are talking about road safety, just to say that we should compare the periods because, Mr. Svilensky, you were objective, for which I thank you! Indeed, the road mortality rate was 1040 "1060," which was in your last management term before Oresharski arrived. Let me remind you that at the end of the first term of office, the victims were 599. This is also not a number that we can be proud of, but we know the direction in the right direction that we have chosen in this sectoral policy. What is extremely important to know is that the increase in road mortality took place in the management of Yovchev and Oresharski 2013. " 2014" Take a close look at the statistics. Indeed, there is one horizon that is currently to reduce these victims on the road, but these are policies, and this will also help the use of the Road Safety Fund, where there are collected funds that can build an infrastructure for video control. What we did yesterday in the Internal Commission, I would like to thank BSP colleagues who did not support legislative changes because they said, in principle, informally, that they agree, but you have a political decision to be only against. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What we propose is that we can also help local authorities, because it also has a significant contribution to road safety and that we can from this safety fund go from one part of these funds to the local authorities' operational management to solving the urgent problems that it has with road safety. Let us also remember all that was happening at the time when you were ruling when we were ruling and because right now the most up-to-date topic is how to mask the government and talk about corruption and corruption practices. Dear colleagues, it is clear to everyone that the biggest corruption pressure and the biggest corruption action that has been in Bulgaria, this was right in the management of the Oresharski cabinet. You know this very well because there is a study in this direction about corruption pressure and corruption action from 1999 to 2016. Just to tell you that at the moment what has been reported, in 2014, there is 39% pressure and real action 29%. This is from a study in which the methodology is the same for all periods for which these studies have been carried out. Just to say that 2011, this pressure was below 10%. This is the political will that we have shown and when we come after you, believe that it is very difficult because when you break a sector system of security, you understand that you cannot restore what has been destroyed or those who have been demotivated and those who have been forced, in one form or another, to leave the Ministry of Interior system. And because it was very controversial on the candidacy of the future Interior Minister of Bulgaria, just to say that his professional growth was right in your management mandate because 2013. Mladen Marinov became Deputy Director of the Sofia Directorate-General and became Director of the Sofia Directorate-General and by Decree of President Rumen Radev, who is today critical of Mladen Marinov, signed a decree for the appointment of the highest professional figure in the system of the Ministry of Interior. I, as Minister of the Interior, have worked with all employees who have been caught up at the time of my inauguration, and I am glad that they have been assessed afterwards by other employees when they have had the opportunity to be developed or prove their professional qualities. So, colleagues from BSP, your thesis on how to present the vision of Bulgaria you can only show it in a way that you can destroy it or bring it down below these levels that we have today [[Applause from GERB]] but not to show a vision of economic growth because you have shown the inability to achieve it. You have always proved that when you manage, your promises before the elections then become something that is only a wish until your meeting before the elections, but after the elections things are different. Do you remember the period when you came to power 2013 and said you would cancel the pension reform? You were the ones who declared and spoke all the time, as you are speaking, in the same way to voters throughout the country. Do you remember what happened after you came and you already had a management mandate? You froze the pension reform for a year because you knew you had to leave in a year. [[Applause.]] In fact, whatever you do then, you already do it in a very good way. Dear colleagues, let us say something extremely important. At the moment, what is being done by the government, and what will be continued by the ministers, is to be able to reduce this deficit in transport, to be able to do the policies laid down in the programme of directors and regional policy, and on the topic of security. I can assure you that what Mladen Marinov will do is increase the number of staff in the Ministry of Interior system to be trained 6000 employees who can carry out the urgent investigative actions under the PPC... the changes we adopted 2010 which, by the way, you deleted as a composition 2013. 2014 and now need to be recovered because six thousand police officers were trained by 2013 and two thousand were those who were investigating the serious crimes in order to be able to ease the system. The results were as provided by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And the other, which is extremely important for the assessment and vision of our country today: Bulgaria had a successful Presidency. You continue to neglect the successes and confessions that Bulgaria has, the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian parliamentary majority. And let me tell you: I am proud that, together with colleagues from the opposition, we participated in the parliamentary dimensions which were related to our commitment to the Presidency, and they behaved extremely dignifiedly. But the problem is that some time here in the room, BSP colleagues think there will be more cameras, there will be no more people at your meetings, because at your meetings there are about 30 people, but there are always more than 121 people in this room. [[Applause]] To be able to vote. With such media presence, it is quite normal to say something that is either populist or something that would interest people to hear you, but they know that you can't do it. Therefore, colleagues, GERB wins the elections in every national vote for parliament and for local power. Let's remember: is there a party in Bulgaria to appear at elections and the slogan of the campaign to be Visible results for Bulgaria and visible results for every city in which we have had mayors, because we have always held accountability of what was done, not what you showed in your management mandate for highway Trakiya: you only took pictures, there was no continuation of the highway, there was only one billboard what it would look like. But you can't do it because you only have a visualization of pictures, but not real actions. Do you remember in the period when 2013 was the 2014 highway in Struma in the section that was next to the Tower and Sandanski was there any action to continue after 2013, when Borisov resigned and elections to parliament were held? No, but when we came back in 2014, do you remember that within four or five months we optimized, coordinated the work and succeeded today when you were travelling to Greece and not a small part of you had property in Greece, using this relief [[noise and lines]] , to pass more easily [[Applause]] . I am convinced that with what the government will do, with the early release of the Kresna section, you will actually be able to save another 20 miles to move seamlessly and be able to quickly go to your personal properties that you have in Greece. Dear colleagues, let us, when you talk about politics, feel and have a self-esteem for what you have benefited from in the management of GERB: good infrastructure and what we have staked and what the future Minister of Regional Development will do. He will continue what Nikolay Nankov started because Nikolay Nankov and Lilyana Pavlova and Rosen Plevneliev were the people who really gave the real vision for the development of road infrastructure in Bulgaria, which you always talk about doing a lot. This is what Petya Avramova will make as a commitment as a future minister of regional development and as a representative from Northwestern Bulgaria. She made her commitment, purely politically, as a representative from the Vratsa Multi-Manandaten Election Region, to complete what the Cabinet started and to implement its four-year management programme, which we know by 2024, there should be a motorway "Hemus" and all these infrastructure projects and highway sections to be implemented by then. We can do this when we have this stability that we have today. We can do this when we have such weak opposition as you, because you do not offer an alternative, you offer only and only something virtual that you want to be heard by people, but you have lost contact with them and they cannot understand you. We will continue to hold the system meetings with our voters so that at least some time our MPs, who are constantly visiting the settlements from which they have been elected, will now assign our MPs to show who are the MPs elected from the multi-mandatory electoral region of the BSP. Because, as I understand it, in Bansko Toma Tomov, who is a MP from the Blagoevgrad constituency, had never been or, if he had gone, he went to some spa tourism, but spa tourism is not for all Bulgarians. Spa tourism is for those [[yells]] who can actually do the job. I can, for all that has been done by the government, assure you that there will be no change in the management program, because it is feasible, it is realistic. The only thing we can do is change the incomes and have what we have achieved so far, because we have an 8% increase in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens [[noise and lines]] And £1,200. average salary. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you and let us support all the ministers who will continue the management program of GERB. [[Extreme applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u187	Let's just say hello to the Bundestag guests from Saxony-Anhalt who are here. [[Applause and standing up by the MPs of GERB]] These are lawmakers from Landtaga. Thank you for being here today. You've seen the debate being held in parliament. This is the majority, this is the opposition that doesn't even respect you, and you are representatives of the parliament of your province. Thank you! [[Applause. Part of the MPs from the group of the BSP for Bulgaria are standing on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? It's a personal explanation. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened to your applause, I listened to your statement, your words. I want to tell you that the visible results are very clear and clear: the poorest country, the lowest income and the most corrupt. [[Noise and lines.]] Personal explanation in the manner of conduct. Let me just tell you, Mr. Tsvetanov: You are clearly very curious about our document "Vision for Bulgaria" and I will tell my colleagues to bring it to you, read it carefully. You seem to be following our appearances and meetings, but you didn't hear the questions from the meeting in Bansko. And now I will say here, before you that Bansko should be a modern European tourist destination. Of course, the point is that you did not hear what the residents of Bansko said: despite the water cycle that you have built, the waste water is again in the Glazne River. This is the quality with which you build the structural projects, the way you spend huge financial European and public resources. Because the visible results of your management are billions spent on road infrastructure and hundreds of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u190	Enter the personal explanation, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u191	...millions to repair this infrastructure. Because all tourists who come here in Bulgaria say this...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u192	Mrs. Lecheva, please enter the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u193	...to Mr. Tsvetanov, just to clarify, because these questions have not been heard by the citizens of Bansko and Veliko Tarnovo that the entire infrastructure of Bulgaria is extremely bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u194	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u195	Excuse me, Mr. Tsvetanov, you are not waiting to hear the questions of the citizens of Veliko Tarnovo because now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva, time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u197	...are spent 11 million in the most brutal and ugly way. And every one who comes... [[the speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Noise, lines, applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u198	There is a personal explanation and then I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct. There will be no personal explanation. [[Heckling]] Okay, come here for a personal explanation. Then I'll give the floor in the manner of conduct. Check in the Rules, if there is no requested procedure, then it is given in the manner of conduct, then procedure is given. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The manner of conduct is given immediately, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u200	If there are no lines, dots and other procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u201	I was extremely correct about your policy as a minister when you were a Minister for Road Safety, but you weren't. Let's tell Bulgarian citizens: 2009 video surveillance cameras enter and then becomes the big drop of the victims. And when you talk about 2013 and 2014... [[SIGHS]] .................................................... [[speaking indistinctly]] , and 2013 the Administrative Court canceled these cameras and therefore the victims rose again because of everyone in this Chamber it is clear that the speed is the one that kills. Be correct! About BDZ's eight hundred million debts, 800 million debts...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u202	Mr. Svilensky, you've strayed slightly...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u203	...trains, schedules, traveling citizens. We don't have trains, we don't have locomotives, we don't have contracts. There is no BDZ, Mr. Tsvetanov, there is no BDZ.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u204	Mr. Svilensky, we're going a long way now. Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Zarkov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe you don't expect it, but my procedure will be really in the way it is. [[Heckling]] We have already grown accustomed to the fact that for some MPs the time is longer than for others. We have become accustomed to this Parliament that the first among the equal is not for the President, but for Mr. Tsvetanov. But this time he took advantage of taking over your functions to do something already unacceptable to involve foreign guests in our altercations. I take this opportunity to congratulate the guests from Germany on behalf of our parliamentary group and to apologize for being brought into political opposition, which is normal in any democratic state, as long as it preserves the normal rules of parliamentary and democracy. Mr. Chairman, you fail to bring respect between us. Please at least do it from us to our foreign guests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I cannot help but thank the chairman of GERB's parliamentary group for this election speech that he gave here, which clearly shows that GERB, as the opposition, are preparing for early elections. [[Heckling]] However, dear friends, this is not another cycle of political crisis, nor is it characteristic of all the governments of GERB a permanent government crisis. This is a deep crisis of statehood. This is a temporary breakdown of the state and no resignations, no show stocks will change the fact that the state is consumed, that there is virtually no control over how asphalt is applied to the digital collapse of the Trade Register. Ten years the state is under attack by the Trojan Horse of GERB: dismantled from within, eaten, distributed, redistributed, remade, so as to respond to the interest of certain people. The goal is clear: money to buy more power and power to divert more money. Someone, however, was very blind and naive that this could last forever. The exhaustion of all systems that organise and ensure security, health, prosperity, the development of the nation is a fact. Ridiculously and patheticly appear the requests for resignations, the midnight coalition meetings, the opposition rhetoric of some ministers and the helmets of other ministers. About the new ministers. After this debate, the names don't matter. They will implement the same policy and will be subject to the same will, and these are raised by small and fed by GERB as the previous ones. The change of ministers does not mean a change of policy and of the vision for development of Bulgaria. The centre is one and the policy is the same: use of public and national resources to benefit a certain political and economic group, opaque allocation of resources, refusal of support for the economy, a dangerous deadlock in health and social systems. In a word, power until the national potential is exhausted. What's the exit? The outcome, as the previous one already understood, is the resignation of the government and a change of the model of government, recovery, first of all, statehood, and then the economy and social systems, and GERB and all their satellites, whether democratic or patriotic, can offer only more than the same. Their coalition councils are evidence of a deadlock to the state to continue them along the crowded path of power consumption. Management remains in the name of stability, but what stability? The stability of all who feed on it. For ten years the actions of GERB have not gone further than the virtuoso management of public procurement and the spending of public and ready money. GERB cannot change itself, it cannot suddenly become another. There is no way, within this Parliament, to put an end to consumption policy and to a new, sensible, nationally responsible one. There is no way that this majority in parliament, with all due respect to the people in the right hand side of this House, suddenly wakes up and cares about its country and starts actually controlling the government. The devaluation of parliamentary power is precisely why the majority for ten years has turned it into an addition to the executive; the majority is supporting the government's power, and the desire for power is supporting the crumbling government. We, the Socialists in Parliament, as well as the people who support us, have no hesitation about the need to change the model. The resignation of Borisov's third cabinet will unleash the state's recovery process. All accounts and designs for modeling and delaying this process are harmful to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Mr. Mitev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! I propose voting on the three draft decisions on personal changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers to be voted separately. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u210	Mr. Mitev, if I understand you correctly, you are proposing a separate vote in the same proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u211	I propose that a separate vote on the three draft decisions in each draft decision, point one and point two be voted separately. Point one to be voted separately, point two to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u212	I have understood you.. separate voting on the points of exemption and the election of the new ministers. Honourable Members, if the honourable ministers' candidates wish to speak, share views or answer questions... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I didn't call for a vote. After the vote, I'll give them the floor. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the MP Christian Mitev for a separate vote on the election and release of the MPs. They voted 209 MPs: for 176, against 21, abstention 12. The proposal for a separate vote has been adopted. Mr. Zhelyazkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u213	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, dear guests! I take the floor briefly for two reasons. The first consideration is my deep respect for you and through you my respect for your constituents. My second point is that sitting with my colleague nominated minister, we somehow felt like we were incapable. However, we are willing to show that we have the opportunity to speak to this authoritative audience. You know better than I that today's point is personal changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is a collective body with a common, but with a clear competence, which is led by its strong 2017 management programme, where all priorities are recorded not only of the government, but also of the individual ministers. We, as candidates for ministers, would not hide behind a shield with the Management Program, but we would make a clear and firm commitment if we became part of the Council of Ministers, to carry out all the tasks, objectives and priorities in it, and their implementation is an assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of each of the ministers. I will say again: the 2017 Management Programme and the priorities in it are the leading one that the government has to fulfil as a commitment. Thanks for the evaluation, for the good words. Sometimes, even a gluttony contains a lot of content. Thank you to Mr. Svilensky. I join his assessment of Minister Moskovski that his efforts have led to the fact that the commitments recorded in the Transport and Information Technologies and Communications Programme have the possibility and reality to be implemented in a short time. Thank you for your attention. I believe that our work at expert level and in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will be, as so far, at an extremely high level, thanks to President Letifov, with whom we have had the opportunity to work at the present time, thanks to the constructive criticism, which, in various qualities, was in this committee, I have had the opportunity to draw knowledge and experience. Thank you for your attention. The commitment that I can make if I am elected Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is to try all skeptical feelings about the absorption of resources and procedures to obtain their structural and formal guarantees of legality and effectiveness. This will be a topic which I will discuss very closely with Parliament and with the parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u214	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. I think we can end the debate with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u215	We had questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u216	They don't have to answer. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. The proposals for the vote were presented by Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. In accordance with the newly adopted decision on the split voting of the points of each proposal, first, I put to the vote a first item of the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with the relevant grounds: it releases Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Vote 216 MPs: for 208, against 8, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote point two of the same draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant reasons: Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov is elected Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. They voted 213 MPs: 125, against 88, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Let's move on to the next offer. I put to the vote point one of the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with the relevant grounds: he released Nikolay Nankov Nankov as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. They voted 213 MPs: for 205, against 8 abstentions there is no. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote point two of the same draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant reasons: she elected Petya Tsvetanova Avramova as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Vote 215 MPs: 125 against 90, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, to explain the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u217	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted all three times against the election of Members of Parliament for the following reason. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u218	Only two have been voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u219	Keep quiet, it's a lapsus.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u220	Okay, both times. Colleagues from GERB and the ruling coalition, this is the Management Program. [[Shows the Management Program.]] In the Management Program, the entire Council of Ministers has made commitments to the Bulgarian people in Priority 5 to have balanced regional development. I understand the joy for those European funds Bulgaria has negotiated. Yes, they belong to the Bulgarian society. At the moment they in the greatest power go into integrated development plans, but all of you live in Bulgaria, I hope, and Mr. Tsvetanov said that he goes a lot in the country. Huge contrasts! Huge contrasts! [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Why am I sharing this? Because, speaking of these contrasts, I know that for the regional minister, this is the fourth minister from the three governments of Borisov. I know that there is essentially no synergies in the government and there is a difference in whether or not to make a targeted impact on the regions. Mrs. Petya Avramova will find it extremely difficult to reach a program for development of the North-West, Rhodopes, Western and border regions. They even gave money in these regions without having one as an act of the Council of Ministers. I know the deputy prime minister like Don Quixote wanted this to happen, but the finance minister has a different view, and that's why it didn't happen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In parallel to this, I will end in a moment, and now it is written in your Programme that you will have targeted policies. You don't have them, coworkers. A billion were given extra out of the budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Time's up for the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u222	...to balance the differences and they were able to compensate. Bulgaria currently has huge problems...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u224	...and it's the government's responsibility. So with respect to these people who are now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u225	Mrs. Yankova, your time is up. [[National Representative Dora Yankova continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I'm continuing with the next draft decision. I put to the vote point one of the draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant reasons: Vote 216 MPs: for 207, against 9 abstentions there is no. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote point two of the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant reasons: he elected Mladen Naydenov Marinov as Minister of the Interior. Vote 216 MPs: 126 against 90 abstentions. The offer is accepted. Negative vote, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, please bring order to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u227	Dear colleagues, please remain silent, take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u228	After the procedure, there will be an oath of the new ministers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I voted against the newly proposed ministers because of political responsibility, but not like the one with which the previous ministers resigned. Their resignations were requested, and my negative vote is because of my absolute personal conviction that the management of GERB is completely unfit and these new appointments will not change the policy of the theft from asphalt, there will be no effective measures against domestic crime, and the break-up in BDZ will not be stopped. It doesn't matter what qualities the newly appointed have. Whatever the new Minister of Interior, the 10-year-old ruin in the Ministry of Interior system, the endless malicious reorganizations show in an indisputable way that GERB does not want the Ministry of Interior strongly and effectively. This policy will continue until access to the management of Boyko Metodiev Borisov is stopped. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u229	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we proceed to the procedure of taking an oath by the newly elected ministers Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, Petya Tsvetanova Avramova and Mladen Naydenov Marinov. All rise, and the elected ministers shall command the stand. Please repeat the text of the oath.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u230	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u231	Thank you. I declare an interruption of the work of the National Assembly for 30 minutes and of the newly elected ministers to wish us success in the work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u232	Honourable Members, we begin our work on the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT AND LEARNING. Please, the Quaestors insist on inviting the MPs to the Chamber! We continue with no less important parliamentary work. We will start with a Report of the Committee on Education and Science on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. At its regular meeting held on 12 September 2018, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. The meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev Minister, Tanya Mihaylova Deputy Minister, Evgenia Kostadinova Director of the Department of Education and Science.Ingredients of preschool and school education, Magdalena Stanulova State Expert at the Directorate of Professional Education and Training.Professional Education and Training.Yordanka Petrova The Committee on Education and Science received opinions from: The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, together with the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Association of Private Schools in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Tanya Mihailova (Deputy Minister for Education and Science), who stressed that the Draft for Vocational Education and Training aims to ensure the legal provision of the needs of additional regulation of dual training. The bill defines the role and functions of the mentor, as well as the tasks and requirements of the teacher. The project offers an extension of the scope of schools where training is carried out by working in secondary schools with professional classes. Conditions shall be established to ensure compliance of vocational education and training with business needs by updating the curricula at least every 5 years. The introduction of requirements for employers who can train students on the dual system and also create an information database for companies that meet these requirements is envisaged. Supporting the database is assigned to the Ministry of Economy. The bill will lead to the implementation of training for employers who have quality material base and qualified mentors directly involved in the training process. The bill also provides for amendments to other regulations: in the Labour Code in order to synchronise the regulations with the situations laid down in the Pre-school and School Education Act and with the latest amendments to the Vocational Education and Training Act; in the Health Insurance Act, students in dual form of training entered into an employment contract with an employer should continue to be insured by the State until completion of their training. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Milena Damyanova, Anelia Klisarova, Irena Anastasova, Ivo Hristov, Errol Mehmed. Prof. Klisarova expressed his opinion that the philosophy of the bill connects education with employers. The proposed changes are long awaited. It is important to know who and how controls the learning process and working conditions, who and how will train mentors, who are companies and what contracts will be concluded between participants in the training through work. The National Representative Irena Anastasova said that the Bill is timely, up-to-date and raised questions regarding specific texts concerning the criteria for inclusion in the information database of companies and the responsibility of participants in changing the circumstances under a contract already concluded. Professor Ivo Hristov emphasized that no training should be carried out by companies before they are included in the register. National Representative Milena Damyanova noted that it is not a register but an information database. The discussion was attended by the Head of the Project "DODMINO" and the representatives of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. Mrs. Petya Evtimova said that under the project "DODMINIO" in three years 180 large structural-determining enterprises carry out training through work, the number of them is expected to increase to more than 250. Of the graduates in these years, 89% immediately started work and 11% were regular students. The only students left from all 49 classes are due to the family leaving abroad. Over the period of the project 1.5 million were awarded for scholarships of 50 leva. to students of the VIII, IX and X class. Mr. Ivelin Zhelyazkov confirmed the position of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, expressed in their joint written opinion received in the Commission that a special contract for work should be created and its place should be in the Law on Vocational Education and Training, not in the Labour Code. Mr. Dimitar Brankov from the Bulgarian Industrial Association fully supported the Bill and expressed his opinion that the conduct of dual training helps to form and accumulate labor habits in children. Bulgaria has ratified the European Convention under which employment contracts can be concluded with the 15-year-olds. With regard to the possibility of participation in places and small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr. Brankov suggested that the payment rate be reduced from 90 to 50% of the minimum wage. Following a vote with results:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u234	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is next. You're welcome to introduce him, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u235	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To your attention, I present ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Education and Science: Tanya Mihailova The bill presented by Deputy Minister Mihailova provides for the establishment of a legal framework for ensuring quality of training through work. The dual system of training in order to overcome the shortage of specialists in the labour market. Requirements shall be introduced for employers to ensure the provision of the relevant material base and qualified mentors directly involved in the training process. The bill provides for the creation of an information database for companies that meet these requirements. Supporting the database is assigned to the Ministry of Economy. The functions and requirements for the preparation of teachers and mentors in the dual training system, as well as the updating of the curriculums, shall be determined at least every five years, in accordance with the dynamically changing requirements of the business. Changes are proposed to the Labour Code, which aim to synchronize the regulations with the Pre-school and School Education Act and with the latest amendments to the Vocational Education and Training Act. Changes are also envisaged in the Health Insurance Act, which provides for students in dual form of training who have concluded an employment contract with an employer to continue to be health-insured by the State until their training is completed. Written opinions on the bill were received by the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Project "DOMINO" supported the bill and expressed their opinion that this would help overcome the shortage of personnel. During the discussion Vasil Velev from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and Dimitar Brankov from the Bulgarian Industrial Association supported the bill in principle, expressed considerations on some of the texts in it and made proposals for their amendment. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u236	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 25 July 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The bill was presented by Mrs. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. According to the reasons, the bill was developed in connection with the implementation of Priority 30, Objective 93, Measures 336, 344 and 535 to ensure quality vocational education and training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 in line with the priorities of the National Reform Programme, as well as fulfilling the country's commitments within the European Semester. The bill is aimed at overcoming the following problems: synchronization with the Preschool and School Education Act; lack of regulated requirements for employers, mentors, methodological teachers, to the training institution in connection with the implementation of the training through work; lack of regulation for updating the training programmes for dual training in accordance with the needs of the business; limited scope of schools implementing a dual training system; lack of information database for companies that meet the conditions to participate in dual training and others. The expected results of the implementation of the Bill shall be linked to: - the conversion of initial vocational education and training into an attractive opportunity for learning; - reduce the proportion of early school leavers; - reduction in youth unemployment. The bill also proposes amendments to other regulations, one of which is the Labour Code. It provides for the possibility for students in the dual training system to be able to work with the same employer with a fixed term contract and during the mandatory periods of training. The aim is to enable employers to hire students during vacations as well, which will help companies replace absent workers. The Commission received the opinions of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training and the Association of Private Schools in Bulgaria, which support the submitted bill. Members of the Commission had the opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, CNSB. During the discussion of the Bill, their representatives expressed positions which are generally expressed in the following: The bill must preserve the possibility of carrying out production practice as one of the existing opportunities and forms of practical training, along with dual training. It is necessary to ease the conditions for administration of the contract of employment under art. 230 of the Labour Code, as well as the possibility of dual training being carried out under the conditions of special, non-employment, civil contract, by amendment and addition of art. 233 of the Labour Code, Art. 17a of the Law on Vocational Education and Training and Ordinance No 1/8 September 2015 of the Minister of Education and Science. The choice of the relevant type of contract for carrying out a practical training contract or special one must reflect the type and nature of the work and the expected result, age, degree of preparedness, special educational needs of the students, working conditions, based on the common arrangement reached between the educational institution and the employer. According to most of the employers' organizations, dual training is a kind of practical training of students, which is why, although paid, it is not a real employment commitment, as it involves complex composition training by building knowledge, skills and habits for the exercise of a particular activity in the trainee. In this respect, in art. 233 of the Labour Code to standardise a eased regime for administration of labour contracts for dual training, similar to employment contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work. In order to effectively protect the interests of employers and students who have preferred employment and to ensure freedom of choice of the type of contract for dual training of students in the system of school education or of production practice and, taking into account the fact that students are employed, who do not have sufficient experience in the initial period, it is appropriate: 1. The envisaged in art. 230, para. 5 of the Labour Code rate of 90 per cent of the minimum wage established for the country to be changed to 50 per cent. 2. Social insurance contributions for all specified insurance cases and rights of students in the dual system in school education should be borne at the expense of the state budget. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Nadia Klisurska, Errol Mehmed, Nikolay Sirakov, Pavel Shopov and Hasan Ademov. They asked questions and expressed positions related to the following concepts: the relationship between the student and the undertaking in which he acquires a profession remains controversial. The main question to be found is whether students who go to enterprises in order to acquire professional teachings and knowledge must conclude contracts with these enterprises in accordance with art. 230 of the Labour Code and what kind of contracts can be concluded between a student and an employer? Another question is: should students receive remuneration for their work, and what kind of work should it be? What kind of risks should be covered in the work of a student and who is responsible for these risks? Is it necessary for the student to be instructed first about safety and health at work and is it necessary to be insured for the relevant risks? Is this period of training appropriate for the undertaking to be in service or should this be a production practice? At the end of the discussion the MPs united around the principle positions of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that new regulatory changes related to arrangements between students, schools and enterprises should be referred to the special Law on Vocational Education and Training, not to the Labour Code, because through dual education students learn through labor and this does not turn them into employed workers. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u238	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Who wants to introduce him? Here you go, Dr. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u239	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, before I introduce my colleagues to the Health Committee Report, I am making a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u240	Thank you. We are voting for the hall of Deputy Minister Mihailova. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. Please, the Quaestors, invite Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova to the Chamber. Continue with the report, Dr. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u241	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Education and Science Tanya Mihailova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs. Tanya Mihaylova. The objectives of the Bill are aimed at fulfilling a priority for providing quality vocational education and training, included in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017. The proposed legal changes are dictated by emerging in practice needs for: introducing regulatory requirements for employers in carrying out training through work, a dual system of training; regulating the role and tasks of the mentor, the method teacher and the methodology teacher; creating conditions for ensuring the necessary professional education and training by updating the training programmes regularly every 5 years; creating a database of employers who meet the requirements for carrying out dual training. The proposed changes to the Health Insurance Act affect the regime of insurance of students who have concluded a work contract with an employer for training in a real working environment as part of the dual training system. At the time of training in a real working environment, students are intended to continue to be insured by the state, regardless of the fact of the employment relationship. In written submissions the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund expressed support for the bill. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, presented written opinions, recommendations and proposals to the Commission. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken, in the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly on the first vote, No. 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u242	Thank you, dear Dr. Stoyanova. Following an importer's opinion. Allow me to give the floor to Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training was drawn up as a result of a joint meeting between three committees in the Parliament, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy in February. This extended meeting was attended by representatives who are really involved with the dual system of training. The representatives of the Bulgarian-Swiss Project "DOMINO" of the Bulgarian-Austrian Agreement, under which dual training is also carried out. The texts we are proposing today have been developed in connection with the implementation of Priority 30, Objective 93 of the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, measures 336, 344 and 535 to provide quality vocational education and training. The Amendment and Supplement Bill offers a distinction between the specialties protected from professions and the specialties of professions on which there is an expected shortage in the labour market. Conditions will be provided for regulating the possibilities for overcoming the shortage of workers in the labour market, and a framework will also be established on key aspects of the practice of ensuring quality of training through work. The amendments and additions to the Law on pre-school and school education have introduced a concept of particularities of occupations where there is an expected shortage of specialists in the labour market. This also requires changes to the Law on Vocational Education and Training, along with the establishment of a list of these specialties from professions, with the regulation of the act on its adoption, with the definition of the functions of ministries and employers' organisations in the development and updating of this list. The proposed Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training specifies the requirements for the implementation and functioning of training through work, rules relating to the requirements for employers to participate as an equivalent partner, determining the functions and requirements for the preparation of methodology teachers, mentors in the dual training system, as well as updating the training programmes in accordance with the dynamically changing requirements of the business, which require the introduction of new legal changes for participants in the dual training system. We offer an extension of the scope of schools that can implement admission in a dual training system. This is in order not to violate the right of choice of students to education and to ensure the needs of employers from qualified staff, as a result of the optimization of the school network in areas where there are no professional high schools. The aim of the changes in the act is to ensure the practical needs of introducing the requirements to employers in order to ensure sustainability and transparency in implementing training partnerships, regulating the role and functions of the mentor, defining the tasks and requirements of the school method teacher or the methodology teacher in a professional college or vocational training centre respectively, which is determined by the Director of the training institution, and he/she implements the relationship between the employer, the mentor and the training institution, extending the scope of schools, establishing conditions for ensuring compliance of vocational education with the needs of the business through updating the training programmes of the training institution, introducing requirements for employers who can train students, creating an information database for the companies who meet these requirements, while maintaining the database is entrusted to the Ministry of Economy. The expected results of the implementation of the act are providing conditions for quality vocational education and training at work for employers who have the relevant material base and qualified mentors who are directly involved in the training process. This Amendment and Supplement Act will in fact also create conditions for periodic updating of study content in line with changes in technology and technology in the production process. Training through work will contribute to the prevention of early school leaving and will enable students to be re-entered in training to acquire professional qualifications. By a draft act, we also propose amendments to the following regulations: the amendments to the Labour Code, which aim only to synchronise the regulations with the situations laid down in the Law on Pre-school and School Education and the latest amendments to the Law on Vocational Education and Training, and the Health Insurance Act provides that students in dual form of training entered into an employment contract with an employer will continue to be health-insured by the State until completion of the training. Last but not least, we believe that this is the way in which the dual training system can provide the most direct link between students who complete a relevant profession or specialty and employers who are really in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This bill is from the very few draft laws that may sound optimistic, which, by their nature, meet the support of almost all MPs and groups. We will support the bill. The reports here have said a lot of the arguments for our support, but I will still focus on several elements. A good impression and a good step is the distinction which at first glance seems too terminological, but is quite essential, of protected professions and specialties from which there is an expected shortage of specialists. This distinction, albeit terminologically, at first glance makes it possible for a more active differentiated state policy to promote vocational education and training, moreover, that the differentiation of these two types of professions becomes at a different level at State level and at a level that enhances the role of regional authorities, local authorities and enables more precise planning of vocational education and training, in line with both national needs and the needs of individual regions. It also makes a good impression to update the curriculum at least five years old, and I stress this at least five years old, because this means that they can be updated with the rhythm of technological introductions and the development of one or another industry, of one profession or another. I will not dwell on other elements that clearly regulate the conditions for employers carrying out this type of training and education; the creation of an information base that will enable transparency, visibility of companies and employers involved in this. On the one hand, this has another effect.. gives parents and young people who seek professional guidance and plan professional careers, after their education to be aware of which companies offer such training and hence to draw conclusions about their professional career in the future. During the regulation of dual learning, something that was said for a very long time, and about it there were both positive and skeptical assessments. In the course of the debate, data was presented that gave us reason for certain optimism in this direction. From the practice of the project, it became clear in the debates that three main conclusions could be drawn on the advantage of dual training. The first is that it directly connects the training with the production and not only that, connects the student with its future professional realization. The vast majority of those involved in this project, who trained on the dual system, realize their professional career in the places where they have been trained in the companies and in the enterprises where they have studied. Next, this training raises interest in vocational education by both students and businesses. The three-year project "DOMINO" shows that the Bulgarian business is oriented relatively well in the advantages of this training and in the deficit of staff, prepared workers through this type of training are looking to realize the preparation of good staff in the future. Thirdly, we need to point out the relatively low rate of dropouts from this form of training. Statistics show a very low percentage of children who have dropped out of the training process, above all due to leaving the country, along with their families, and a very small percentage of unrealized in the professional direction in which they were trained, first of all entered students. I think about 11% of these children are realized in higher education. This gives us reason to be optimistic that the legislative changes proposed by the Council of Ministers will play a role in speeding up these processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to his statement. A statement has been made by Professor Klisarova. Here you are, Professor Klisarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u247	Madam President, honourable Members! I take this bill into consideration, as the negotiators have said, because it is extremely important, quite up-to-date and quite timely. Or why? We associate vocational education and training with business so that young people who have graduated from vocational school can be better realized in the labour market. Sometimes we even say: we have long spoken under this law, he is already starting to be a little late. I'd like to point out some problems that showed directors and professors from professional high schools at our meetings. The fears of some parents are that in the absence of a strong economy and planning in the economy, will we be able to really and accurately predict what the needs of business, of employers, of which professions in five years? A second theme that colleagues put is about the outdated material and technical base. Will there be enough money to buy modern laboratories that meet modern working conditions? The third point is the qualification of teachers who teach on special subjects, lack of textbooks, and who will train job mentors to work with young people and students. What and to what extent is the role of vocational guidance centers in schools because you see that the early professional orientation of children is very low? What is the motivation of parents, how well do they know jobs, and how convinced they are that they want their children to go to these professional high schools? Will there be ways to evaluate the realization of the students? How many of them will really be in a real working environment? In the philosophy of the Law there are always two sides, in this particular, I can say there is a third. The first is that, as the Committee on Education and Science, our task was to make texts to protect students' interests and to provide them with a safe and secure environment for both training and work. Of course, the aim of the Committee on Economics, of their work, is quite different to motivate businesses to participate in dual learning. The important thing is to find a balance between the interests of the Committee on Education and Science, students and parents, on the one hand, and the interest of business, on the other hand. The directors of professional high schools have long expected this law and, as has been said, thank you to those who have spoken, many questions have been asked: what should be the employment contracts of children with employers? What percentage should be paid from the salary or from the average gross salary for the sector or undertaking concerned? Very serious is the problem who answers and how are the working conditions controlled, what happens under the conditions of a work accident? Who and how teach mentors and can they work with children? All these issues have been addressed in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and many of them have found a solution. For me, it is still not enough to show what the impact assessment is, because in the proposed impact assessment the answers are very common and in the Commission we have understood more accurate and clearer results, but only from the "Domino" project. This mass that we're expecting is still gone. One more thing I must stress in this law, and this is the third point that, after all, young people who are learning in vocational education must get basic knowledge. As we have said, it is difficult to predict the labour market in the fast-growing economy and in the fast-growing professions. Let us provide young people with basic knowledge. I'm setting an example of electrical engineering. Each of them with very little qualification will be able to become an electrician of wind generators or an elevator technician or a refrigerator technician. Two objections to which our group voted abstention. I can tell exactly what you're talking about. 17, para 1, and not because between first and second readings they cannot be corrected. I am convinced that they will be corrected. What's it say? The training firm in which children can learn and study, but a company that has not applied to enter the register and meets all the working conditions, can conclude contracts with school directors on the basis of which decision... This means that only by decision of the school will the director be able to conclude a dual training contract or in this case we rely only on the conscience of the directors. The second problem is close to the first. It states that if the employer does not meet some of the requirements to be met, the training may continue depending on the specific circumstances. What are the specific circumstances? Again at the director's discretion. These texts do not protect the interests of students and do not guarantee safe working conditions. They can endanger both their health and compromise the quality of training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u248	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I won't. The word for speech is Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Minister! I begin by saying that the subject we are looking at is extremely important for several reasons. First of all, countries that have introduced dual education and training have the lowest youth unemployment rate. Secondly, primary education and training allows the middle of problems between demand for the labour market and what education offers as a product, such as knowledge, as a skill. This is extremely important because employers are looking for specialists with certain specific knowledge and skills that the education system, unfortunately, at this stage, cannot provide them. This is precisely what the adoption of the amendments to the Law on Vocational Education and Training requires so that this disproportion between the product that gives, I repeat, the system of education and what employers seek as a specific qualification. The topic of dual education and training has its history, including in Bulgaria. About three or four years ago, the amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act were adopted, which gave specific guidance on how the next steps should be taken. Then changes were adopted to the Labour Code, which were regulated in art. 230 employment contracts with a condition for training at work. There are now amendments to the Law on Vocational Education and Training, so that the dual education and training in Bulgaria can be started. What we understand from the importers is that this bill enters into force immediately after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, but we can rely, in any case, on the fact that, at the beginning of the next school year and not on this one, there can be actual contracts between employers, schools and students. I would like to highlight several of the advantages of this bill. First of all, the inclusion of employers as an equal partner in training through work. Who will train the mentors, who will train the teachers? The practice shows that in the Ministry of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy through the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" there are specific schemes that enable mentors to prepare. Moreover, there are certain funds in the National Employment Action Plan, each year there are schemes that allow for the support of mentors who train workers. Next, the positive in the proposed bill is the updating of the curricula within 5 years. This is extremely important because in the sphere of the fourth digital revolution, when technology changes, it can be said daily, very difficult to rely on changes in study plans in five years. Perhaps this deadline should be specified within five or three years.... is not so important. The important thing is that there should be an opportunity for the curriculum to be updated in terms of the specific needs of the business for the realization of the students. Next, the definition of requirements for the preparation of teachers and mentors in the dual system. An extremely important measure, because the level of their preparation depends on how they will be motivated, I stress not only the students but also their parents. If we want to overcome this neglect to work from an early age of students, we need to be aware that in this system participants should not only be teachers, teachers, mentors, but parents and family in general. It is natural that a positive measure is the Register of the Ministry of Economy, from which specific information can be gathered about who are undertakings eligible for contracts. Of course, the idea of introducing dual education will not go the smoothest way, there were many problems. You remember that in February, if I do not confuse the month, this year three Committees......................................................................................... the relationship between employers, students and the school. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! The student who continues his training in the real conditions of work is not the classic hired worker. He continues his qualifications in the conditions of work and there should be a mentor there. Here comes the big question: whether these relationships should be settled as a classic employment relationship, because if it is a classic employment relationship, then the elements of the employment contract are extremely engaging and serious, and hardly will employers be willing to meet these conditions. Therefore, the decision which both ministries adopted in the specialized Law on vocational education and training to regulate this contract with minimal changes in art. 230 of the Labour Code to enable the formation of the employment contract. Of course, employers are asking extremely serious questions, and I would like to put this issue to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly: will these 90% of the minimum wage as payment to students who are being trained be in the capacity and at the will of the employers? That's the most important question. Next, do I know the answers, but still need to be put in public, employers with financial instruments from operational programmes and from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy from the National Employment Action Plan to help in order to actually be attractive not only to learners, but also to employers? Next, whether the insurance risks that cover the proposed contract, the insurance risk for professional... I'll tell you in a few moments, insurance risks, right now I can't think of... a job accident and a professional illness is enough, because there are nine insurance risks under the International Labour Organisation. Is the time during which students are trained as an internship and hence as an internship? The question of health insurance is resolved in the proposed project, but the question remains whether the remaining insurance risks should be part of the commitment to be made anyway? I hope that despite the problems it has, despite the difficulties it has, we must give our education system, our employers, our parents and students a chance to walk this awkward path and, like other modern European countries, to introduce dual education and training so that employers can benefit from skilled labour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u250	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Negotiators spoke almost all the advantages of the Bill, which made it clear to everyone that it is a bill that guarantees the terms and conditions for carrying out dual training through work. I will allow myself a few numbers that will prove the need for this bill. As it became clear, the dual system of training was introduced in Bulgaria in 2015 within the framework of the project "DOMINO" which was funded by Switzerland under a Bulgarian-Swiss programme. In the period since its introduction to date, as it has not been completed, in the academic year 2015, 2016 was launched with two pilot professions in the "Machinobuilding" and "Food and taste industry" sectors, with 32 professional high schools working on the project, with the participation of 1134 students and 170 partners in the business. During the school year 2016 - 2017 an enhanced training of 16 professions was carried out, covering 19 professional high schools. In 2017 we already have 58 classes, with 20 professions in 24 professional high schools established after the seventh grade, and after the eighth grade in 23 professions in 31 professional high schools. The positive aspects of the bill are the opportunities for annual updating by the end of October of the relevant year of the lists of specialties of occupations, as well as the specialties of professions, which are expected to be lacking by professionals in the labour market. Updating training programmes for vocational education and training or vocational training of persons aged 16 years by educational subjects and modules as well as the possibility of validation by the body under para. 2, p. 4 or by the Director of the training institution of persons over 16 years of age. This ensures flexibility for changes and innovations in production technologies, the introduction of up-to-date equipment, changing the materials used and changes in employers' requirements. An emphasis in the bill is the regulatory provision of the implementation of dual vocational education and training. The requirements for the functioning of training through work, which is expressed, first of all, in partnership of employers with an institution in the system of vocational education and training on the basis of a contract, shall be specified. An opportunity for employers to declare admission to the Director of the training institution. A number of requirements have been introduced for employers with a view to greater sustainability in partnerships with training institutions. The directors of educational institutions shall be given the opportunity to enter into partnership contracts and with employers who are not registered in the information database for them. The directors of educational institutions may conclude contracts with employers who do not meet some of the conditions of art. 17a, t. 3, which benefits small settlements, small and medium-sized businesses. An opportunity is opened and this is precisely an opportunity, not a burden of the Director of the training institution and employers to terminate contracts in order to continue training through work on the basis of a new partnership contract. This implies changing the specific jobs, the types of production, the techniques, the technology, the absorption of new productions. Define the functions of the mentor as an important training figure. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training clearly specifies the requirements for the mentor. The requirements, tasks and responsibilities to the methodological teacher shall be defined as a coordinating figure between a training institution, a mentor and an employer. We also have the possibility of applying dual education from secondary schools with professional classes. Notice, these are secondary schools, not professional high schools that can reveal professional classes, and this is very important for small settlements. Through the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training, a breakthrough was made, it became clear in the Labour Code, regarding the conclusion of contracts between employers and trainers. So far, this has been a serious obstacle and abstention by employers in registering employment contracts of persons under 18 years of age in the Labour Inspection. There is a relief for the health insurance of students who are in dual form of training, as social insurance is at the expense of the state budget. The draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training will provide conditions for better professional education and training on the basis of clearly regulated criteria, as well as for employers with regard to the material and technical basis, specific jobs and working mentors, professionals, as well as the replaced responsibilities and requirements for the training institution. A timely bill that we must support by all Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 99 MPs: 84, none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report will introduce us to Dr. Ademov. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u253	Mr. Chairman, before that, allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u254	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Petrova to the hall. Continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 12 September 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Minister Biser Petkov. A new type of monthly assistance for children with one or two deceased parents is introduced by the Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. The new monthly aid is aimed only at children who are not entitled to a survivor's pension, as they cannot receive it only because of the lack of adequate insurance experience of the deceased parent. The aid aims at ensuring access to financial assistance on equal terms for all children without the right to a survivor's pension. As a kind of family aid, the new monthly aid will meet the conditions and principles on which family support is based both in terms of access conditions and in terms of determining the amount of the grant. Monthly family support for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent will be granted to the other parent or guardian/producer who raises the child. They, like the child, should live constantly in the country. In addition, the child must meet the following conditions: - not to receive a survivor's pension from a deceased parent; - is it accommodated for farming outside the family by the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; - regularly attend preparatory groups in kindergartens or preparatory groups in schools for compulsory pre-school education of children, unless this is impossible due to its health; - until graduating from secondary school, but not more than 20 years old, regularly attend school, unless this is impossible due to its health condition; - make all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations according to its age and health status. In the partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed bill, it is written that the bill aims to: 1. ensuring equal access to financial support for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent; 2. Provide special protection and support to children who are not raised by both parents due to death in the family; 3. Ensure uniform application of the rules on regular school visits when receiving monthly assistance under art. 7 of the Children's Family Aid Act. The reasons with which the bill is proposed are linked to several problems. The main problem requiring the proposed legislative change is that no small part of children with deceased parents receive financial support. According to data from the Single System for Civil Registration and Administrative Service of the Population as of 23 February 2018, the total number of children up to the age of 20 with one living parent is 29 992, and 664 are children with two deceased parents. According to the National Insurance Institute, as of 31 December 2017 22 099 children up to the age of 20 receive inherited pensions. Under the Social Security Code, one of the conditions for obtaining a survivor's pension is the existence of the deceased's corresponding insurance internship. Children whose deceased parents have not acquired the necessary insurance service shall not be entitled to a survivor's pension. For them, the Social Security Code and the regulations provide for the possibility of granting a personal pension, but there is a serious restrictive condition that the annual income of a member of the family of persons is less than the sum of the guaranteed minimum income established for the country in the last 12 months prior to the request for a pension. The amount of the guaranteed minimum income until the end of 2017 is 65 BGN and from 2018 is 75 BGN. This is a serious restriction, as according to data from the National Insurance Institute as of 31 December 2017, only 2693 children up to the age of 20 receive personal pensions. In addition, the implementation of existing legislation leads to support with a personal pension for a very limited range of children with deceased parents. Currently, there is no regulation of special assistance for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent in the Family Aid Act. There is no special regime for children who are not entitled to both inheritance and personal pension. Importers are convinced that the introduction of a new type of monthly family assistance to a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent will guarantee access to financial assistance on equal terms for all children without the right to a survivor's pension. To the draft is attached an opinion of the Directorate of Administration Modernization. It makes recommendations on Section 4 "Variants of Action" in the partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. The opinion states that on the basis of art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration it is necessary to publish this opinion together with the revised impact assessment and draft act in the public consultations carried out in implementation of the Law on Administrative Acts. A report on the compliance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts prepared in response to a letter from the Secretary General of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Directorate-General for Human Rights of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights at the Ministry of Justice points out the following: There are joint complaints before the European Court of Human Rights Yocheva and Ganeva against Bulgaria. At the heart of the complaint Yocheva against Bulgaria is the refusal of the national authorities to grant the applicant's children monthly child support until secondary education is completed, as their origin in relation to the father is unknown. The Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance (SCI) "Srain village" has refused such assistance and one of the reasons was that there were no requirements of art. 7, para. 9 of the Children's Family Aid Act. By court order, the act has been confirmed to be lawful. On the complaint, Ganeva v Bulgaria, the applicant lodged a complaint with the Commission for protection against discrimination on the grounds that the legal definition of the child with one living parent, contained in the provision of § 1, item 1. 9 The Additional Provisions of the Family Aid Act create discrimination against children with an unknown father, as it distinguishes them from those with one living parent. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination establishes direct discrimination on the grounds of personal situation. The Commission's decision on protection against discrimination has been appealed and annulled by the Administrative Court. The European Court of Human Rights has accepted complaints based on art. 14 "Prohibition of discrimination, in relation to art. 8 The right to respect personal and family life, and art. 1 of Protocol 1 to the Convention on the Protection of Property, of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and, in particular, the defendant State is required to examine whether the applicants have been subject to different treatment because of the refusal by the authorities to grant assistance to their children because they have no established origin. The Ministry of Justice further points out that an exchange of views between the parties has been completed at the moment in the context of the judicial procedure before the European Court of Human Rights and there is still no ruling on the case. For the purposes of granting monthly support to a child until the completion of secondary education under the Law on Family Aid for Children, the legal status of the child is evident, namely whether it is with an unknown parent or with one living parent. In the light of the foregoing and depending on the outcome of the proceedings pending before the European Court of Human Rights, it is possible that a matter may arise at a later stage in order to ensure the compatibility of the proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A report on the comments received after the public consultation of the project has also been included in the package of documents. It shows that the Social Assistance Agency has made three proposals that are not accepted and one that is generally supported. An opinion of the Agency for Social Assistance has been deposited with the Commission, in principle supporting the submitted bill, but specific proposals for amendments and additions have also been made which, in the opinion of the Agency, will facilitate the process of administering this type of aid. The opinion of the National Insurance Institute, which has also been deposited with the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, expresses the principle of support for the Draft Law and the proposals for amendments and additions made by the Social Assistance Agency and believes that the Bill must find an explicit solution to cases where applications for personal pension have been submitted before 1 January 2019 to which the pension has not yet been granted. In the discussion took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Milko Nedyalkov and Hassan Ademov. They expressed support for the Bill by understanding that it would adequately solve the social problems that have existed for years. Furthermore, the bill makes a good step towards differentiation of pensions unrelated to employment from social aid. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results, 20 votes are adopted by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The following opinion was adopted: He proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u256	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018. At a meeting held on 13 September 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister, Petar Nachev, Director of the Directorate of Life Level, demographic policy and social investment and Teodora Todorova, expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act aims to introduce a new type of monthly assistance for children with one or two deceased parents. The new monthly aid is aimed only at children who are not entitled to a survivor's pension, as they cannot receive it only because of the lack of adequate insurance experience of the deceased parent. The aid aims at ensuring access to financial assistance on equal terms for all children without the right to a survivor's pension. As a kind of family aid, the new monthly aid will meet the conditions and principles on which family support is based both in terms of access conditions and in terms of definition. the size of it. Monthly family support for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent will be granted to the other parent or guardian who raises the child when they live permanently on the territory of the country. Furthermore, it is required that the child is not accommodated for farming outside the family according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; to regularly attend prep groups in kindergartens or prep groups in schools for compulsory pre-school education of children, unless this is impossible due to their health status; to attend school regularly, unless it is impossible because of their health; to have all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations according to their age and health. Monthly assistance will be provided by the age of 18 years and if the child is studying until secondary education, but not more than 20 years old. When the child has completed his secondary education before the age of 18 years, the assistance will continue to be provided until the age of 18 years. Monthly support will be granted to the other parent or guardian/producer who raises the child if the average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months is lower or equal to the income determined annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year and cannot be less than the previous year. So far, access to personal pensions is limited to the amount of guaranteed minimum income, which is 65 BGN and from 2018 is 75 BGN. With the introduction of the new monthly aid, more families will be supported and an increase in the number of supported children is expected compared to the number of supported by personal pension under art. 92 CSR. On the basis of the above data, the estimated number of children to be supported by the new monthly aid is around 5600. The amount of monthly aid will be determined annually with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which cannot be less than the previous year. The aid will only be provided in money. The new monthly aid will be able to be received together with the other types of aid under the SAP, but will not be able to be obtained together with the personal pension of a child under art. 92 of the Social Security Code. It is proposed that the changes related to the new monthly family assistance for children without the right to a deceased parent's survivor's pension will enter into force from 1 January 2019 in order to provide the necessary additional funds in the State Budget Act for 2019. Following a discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aids Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-20.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We will continue the discussion at the next meeting. Before closing the meeting, I will read you the Parliamentary Control Communication on 21 September 2018: 1. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; Svetla Bachvarova; Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Daniel Yordanov; Svetla Bachvarova and Rumen Georgiev; and Kristian Vigenin. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. 3. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer 3 questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov; Georgi Mihailov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krassimir Karakachanov to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dimitar Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valery Simeonov to a question by the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work today. The next regular meeting is on 21 September 2018 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
